Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1521
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019 No. 27
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CUNNINGHAM).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 12, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JOE
CUNNINGHAM to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Dr. Dan C. Cummins, Cap-
itol Worship, Washington, D.C., offered
the following prayer:
Heavenly Father, we pause in Your
presence, in this hallowed Chamber, re-
membering the lifetimes of two great
Americans and distinguished Members
of Congress: John David Dingell, Jr.,
and Walter Beaman Jones, Jr.
With their passing, Lord, our Nation
is immeasurably indebted to them and
to their families for their tireless dedi-
cation and dutiful sacrifices offered
upon the altar of public service.
Einstein’s words fit appropriately:
‘‘Only a life lived in the service of oth-
ers is worth living.’’ May we, too, live
emulating their example.
The prophet Jeremiah declares that,
while we are formed in our mother’s
womb, You designed a purpose for
every life. With certainty, Messrs. Din-
gell and Jones were greeted with these
words from their Creator: Well done,
thou good and faithful servant.
So let us comfort one another with
these words.
O death, where is thy sting? O grave,
where is thy victory? But thanks be to
God, which giveth us the victory
through Jesus Christ, our resurrected
Lord. Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON RULES FOR THE
116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON RULES,
Washington, DC, February 12, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause
2(a)(2) of rule XI, the Committee on Rules’
rules of procedure for the 116th Congress are
transmitted herewith. They were adopted on
January 8, 2019 by a nonrecord vote.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. MCGOVERN,
Chairman.
RULE 1.—GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) The Rules of the House are the rules of
the Committee and its subcommittees so far
as applicable, except that a motion to recess
from day to day, and a motion to dispense
with the first reading (in full) of a bill or res-
olution, if printed copies are available, are
non-debatable privileged motions in the
Committee. A proposed investigative or
oversight report shall be considered as read
if it has been available to the members of the
Committee for at least 24 hours (excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such day).
(b) Each subcommittee is a part of the
Committee, and is subject to the authority
and direction of the Committee and to its
rules so far as applicable.
(c) The provisions of clause 2 of rule XI of
the Rules of the House are incorporated by
reference as the rules of the Committee to
the extent applicable.
(d) The Committee’s rules shall be pub-
lished in the Congressional Record not later
than 30 days after the Committee is elected
in each odd-numbered year.
RULE 2.—REGULAR, ADDITIONAL, AND SPECIAL
MEETINGS
REGULAR MEETINGS
(a)(1) The Committee shall regularly meet
at 5:00 p.m. on the first day on which votes
are scheduled of each week when the House
is in session.
(2) A regular meeting of the Committee
may be dispensed with if, in the judgment of
the Chair, there is no need for the meeting.
(3) Additional regular meetings and hear-
ings of the Committee may be called by the
Chair.
NOTICE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS
(b) The Chair shall notify in electronic or
written form each member of the Committee
of the agenda of each regular meeting of the
Committee at least 48 hours before the time
of the meeting and shall provide to each
member of the Committee, at least 24 hours
before the time of each regular meeting:
(1) for each bill or resolution scheduled on
the agenda for consideration of a rule, a copy
of—
(A) the bill or resolution;
(B) any committee reports thereon; and
(C) any available letter requesting a rule
for the bill or resolution; and
(2) for each other bill, resolution, report, or
other matter on the agenda a copy of—
(A) the bill, resolution, report, or mate-
rials relating to the other matter in ques-
tion; and
(B) any report on the bill, resolution, re-
port, or any other matter made by any sub-
committee of the Committee.
EMERGENCY MEETINGS
(c)(1) The Chair may call an emergency
meeting of the Committee at any time on
any measure or matter which the Chair de-
termines to be of an emergency nature; pro-
vided, however, that the Chair has made an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:17 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE7.000 H12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1522 February 12, 2019
effort to consult the ranking minority mem-
ber, or, in such member’s absence, the next
ranking minority party member of the Com-
mittee.
(2) As soon as possible after calling an
emergency meeting of the Committee, the
Chair shall notify each member of the Com-
mittee of the time and location of the meet-
ing.
(3) To the extent feasible, the notice pro-
vided under paragraph (2) shall include the
agenda for the emergency meeting and cop-
ies of available materials which would other-
wise have been provided under subsection (b)
if the emergency meeting was a regular
meeting.
SPECIAL MEETINGS
(d) Special meetings shall be called and
convened as provided in clause 2(c)(2) of rule
XI of the Rules of the House.
RULE 3.—MEETING AND HEARING PROCEDURES
IN GENERAL
(a)(1) Meetings and hearings of the Com-
mittee shall be called to order and presided
over by the Chair or, in the Chair’s absence,
by the member designated by the Chair as
the Vice Chair of the Committee, or by the
ranking majority member of the Committee
present as Acting Chair.
(2) Meetings and hearings of the Com-
mittee shall be open to the public unless
closed in accordance with clause 2(g) of rule
XI of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives.
(3) Any meeting or hearing of the Com-
mittee that is open to the public shall be
open to coverage by television, radio, and
still photography in accordance with the
provisions of clause 4 of rule XI of the Rules
of the House (which are incorporated by ref-
erence as part of these rules).
(4) Before a motion to report a rule is of-
fered, a copy of the language recommended
shall be furnished to each member of the
Committee.
QUORUM
(b)(1) For the purpose of hearing testimony
on requests for rules, five members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum.
(2) For the purpose of taking testimony
and receiving evidence on measures or mat-
ters of original jurisdiction before the Com-
mittee, three members of the Committee
shall constitute a quorum.
(3) A majority of the members of the Com-
mittee shall constitute a quorum for the pur-
poses of: reporting any measure or matter;
authorizing a subpoena; closing a meeting or
hearing pursuant to clause 2(g) of rule XI of
the Rules of the House (except as provided in
clause 2(g)(2)(A) and (B)); or taking any
other action.
VOTING
(c)(1) No vote may be conducted on any
measure or motion pending before the Com-
mittee unless a majority of the members of
the Committee is actually present for such
purpose.
(2) A record vote of the Committee shall be
provided on any question before the Com-
mittee upon the request of any member.
(3) No vote by any member of the Com-
mittee on any measure or matter may be
cast by proxy.
(4) A record of the vote of each member of
the Committee on each record vote on any
measure or matter before the Committee
shall be made publicly available in elec-
tronic form within 48 hours, and with respect
to any record vote on any motion to amend
or report, shall be included in the report of
the Committee showing the total number of
votes cast for and against and the names of
those members voting for and against.
HEARING PROCEDURES
(d)(1) With regard to hearings on matters
of original jurisdiction, to the greatest ex-
tent practicable:
(A) each witness who is to appear before
the Committee shall file with the Committee
at least 24 hours in advance of the appear-
ance a statement of proposed testimony in
written and electronic form and shall limit
the oral presentation to the Committee to a
brief summary thereof; and
(B) In the case of a witness appearing in a
nongovernmental capacity, a written state-
ment of proposed testimony shall include a
curriculum vitae and a disclosure of any
Federal grants or contracts, or contracts or
payments originating with a foreign govern-
ment, received during the current calendar
year or either of the two previous calendar
years by the witness or by an entity rep-
resented by the witness and related to the
subject matter of the hearing.
(C) The disclosure referred to in subdivi-
sion (B) shall include—
(i) the amount and country of origin of any
payment or contract related to the subject
matter of the hearing originating with a for-
eign government.
(ii) the amount and country of origin of
any payment or contract related to the sub-
ject matter of the hearing originating with a
foreign government.
(D) Such statements, with appropriate
redactions to protect the privacy or security
of the witness, shall be made publicly avail-
able in electronic form not later than one
day after the witness appears.
(2) The five-minute rule shall be observed
in the interrogation of each witness before
the Committee until each member of the
Committee has had an opportunity to ques-
tion the witness.
(3) The provisions of clause 2(k) of rule XI
of the Rules of the House shall apply to any
hearing conducted by the Committee.
SUBPOENAS AND OATHS
(e)(1) Pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives, a
subpoena may be authorized and issued by
the Committee or a subcommittee in the
conduct of any investigation or series of in-
vestigations or activities, only when author-
ized by a majority of the members voting, a
majority being present.
(2) The Chair may authorize and issue sub-
poenas under such clause during any period
in which the House has adjourned for a pe-
riod of longer than three days.
(3) Authorized subpoenas shall be signed by
the Chair or by any member designated by
the Committee, and may be served by any
person designated by the Chair or such mem-
ber.
(4) The Chair, or any member of the Com-
mittee designated by the Chair, may admin-
ister oaths to witnesses before the Com-
mittee.
RULE 4.—GENERAL OVERSIGHT
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee shall review and study, on
a continuing basis, the application, adminis-
tration, execution, and effectiveness of those
laws, or parts of laws, the subject matter of
which is within its jurisdiction.
RULE 5.—SUBCOMMITTEES
ESTABLISHMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
SUBCOMMITTEES
(a)(1) There shall be three subcommittees
of the Committee as follows:
(A) Subcommittee on Legislative and
Budget Process, which shall have general re-
sponsibility for measures or matters related
to relations between the Congress and the
Executive Branch.
(B) Subcommittee on Rules and Organiza-
tion of the House, which shall have general
responsibility for measures or matters re-
lated to process and procedures of the House,
relations between the two Houses of Con-
gress, relations between the Congress and
the Judiciary, and internal operations of the
House.
(C) Subcommittee on Expedited Proce-
dures, which shall have general responsi-
bility for measures or matters related to ex-
pedited procedures for floor consideration in
law or in the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(2) In addition, each such subcommittee
shall have specific responsibility for such
other measures or matters as the Chair re-
fers to it.
(3) Each subcommittee of the Committee
shall review and study, on a continuing
basis, the application, administration, exe-
cution, and effectiveness of those laws, or
parts of laws, the subject matter of which is
within its general responsibility.
REFERRAL OF MEASURES AND MATTERS TO
SUBCOMMITTEES
(b)(1) No special order providing for the
consideration of any bill or resolution shall
be referred to a subcommittee of the Com-
mittee.
(2) The Chair shall refer to a subcommittee
such measures or matters of original juris-
diction as the Chair deems appropriate given
its jurisdiction and responsibilities.
(3) All other measures or matters of origi-
nal jurisdiction shall be subject to consider-
ation by the full Committee.
(4) In referring any measure or matter of
original jurisdiction to a subcommittee, the
Chair may specify a date by which the sub-
committee shall report thereon to the Com-
mittee.
(5) The Committee by motion may dis-
charge a subcommittee from consideration
of any measure or matter referred to a sub-
committee of the Committee.
COMPOSITION OF SUBCOMMITTEES
(c) The size and ratio of each sub-
committee shall be determined by the Com-
mittee and members shall be elected to each
subcommittee, and to the positions of chair
and ranking minority member thereof, in ac-
cordance with the rules of the respective
party caucuses. The Chair of the full com-
mittee may designate a member of the ma-
jority party on each subcommittee as its
vice chair.
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGS AND HEARINGS
(d)(1) Each subcommittee of the Com-
mittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings,
receive testimony, mark up legislation, and
report to the full Committee on any measure
or matter referred to it.
(2) No subcommittee of the Committee
may meet or hold a hearing at the same time
as a meeting or hearing of the full Com-
mittee is being held.
(3) The chair of each subcommittee shall
schedule meetings and hearings of the sub-
committee only after consultation with the
Chair.
QUORUM
(e)(1) For the purpose of taking testimony,
two members of the subcommittee shall con-
stitute a quorum.
(2) For all other purposes, a quorum shall
consist of a majority of the members of a
subcommittee.
EFFECT OF A VACANCY
(f) Any vacancy in the membership of a
subcommittee shall not affect the power of
the remaining members to execute the func-
tions of the subcommittee.
RECORDS
(g) Each subcommittee of the Committee
shall provide the full Committee with copies
of such records of votes taken in the sub-
committee and such other records with re-
spect to the subcommittee necessary for the
Committee to comply with all rules and reg-
ulations of the House.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:32 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE7.002 H12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1523
February 12, 2019
RULE 6.—STAFF
IN GENERAL
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2)
and (3), the professional and other staff of
the Committee shall be appointed, by the
Chair, and shall work under the general su-
pervision and direction of the Chair.
(2) All professional, and other staff pro-
vided to the minority party members of the
Committee shall be appointed, by the rank-
ing minority member of the Committee, and
shall work under the general supervision and
direction of such member.
(3) The appointment of all professional
staff shall be subject to the approval of the
Committee as provided by, and subject to the
provisions of, clause 9 of rule X of the Rules
of the House.
ASSOCIATE STAFF
(b) Associate staff for members of the Com-
mittee may be appointed only at the discre-
tion of the Chair (in consultation with the
ranking minority member regarding any mi-
nority party associate staff), after taking
into account any staff ceilings and budg-
etary constraints in effect at the time, and
any terms, limits, or conditions established
by the Committee on House Administration
under clause 9 of rule X of the Rules of the
House.
SUBCOMMITTEE STAFF
(c) From funds made available for the ap-
pointment of staff, the Chair of the Com-
mittee shall, pursuant to clause 6(d) of rule
X of the Rules of the House, ensure that suf-
ficient staff is made available to each sub-
committee to carry out its responsibilities
under the rules of the Committee, and, after
consultation with the ranking minority
member of the Committee, that the minority
party of the Committee is treated fairly in
the appointment of such staff.
COMPENSATION OF STAFF
(d) The Chair shall fix the compensation of
all professional and other staff of the Com-
mittee, after consultation with the ranking
minority member regarding any minority
party staff.
CERTIFICATION OF STAFF
(e)(1) To the extent any staff member of
the Committee or any of its subcommittees
does not work under the direct supervision
and direction of the Chair, the member of
the Committee who supervises and directs
the staff member’s work shall file with the
Chief of Staff of the Committee (not later
than the tenth day of each month) a certifi-
cation regarding the staff member’s work for
that member for the preceding calendar
month.
(2) The certification required by paragraph
(1) shall be in such form as the Chair may
prescribe, shall identify each staff member
by name, and shall state that the work en-
gaged in by the staff member and the duties
assigned to the staff member for the member
of the Committee with respect to the month
in question met the requirements of clause 9
of rule X of the rules of the House.
(3) Any certification of staff of the Com-
mittee, or any of its subcommittees, made
by the Chair in compliance with any provi-
sion of law or regulation shall be made—
(A) on the basis of the certifications filed
under paragraph (1) to the extent the staff is
not under the Chair’s supervision and direc-
tion, and
(B) on his own responsibility to the extent
the staff is under the Chair’s direct super-
vision and direction.
RULE 7.—BUDGET, TRAVEL, PAY OF WITNESSES
BUDGET
(a) The Chair, in consultation with other
members of the Committee, shall prepare for
each Congress a budget providing amounts
for staff, necessary travel, investigation, and
other expenses of the Committee and its sub-
committees.
TRAVEL
(b)(1) The Chair may authorize travel for
any member and any staff member of the
Committee in connection with activities or
subject matters under the general jurisdic-
tion of the Committee. Before such author-
ization is granted, there shall be submitted
to the Chair in writing the following:
(A) The purpose of the travel.
(B) The dates during which the travel is to
occur.
(C) The names of the States or countries to
be visited and the length of time to be spent
in each.
(D) The names of members and staff of the
Committee for whom the authorization is
sought.
(2) Members and staff of the Committee
shall make a written report to the Chair on
any travel they have conducted under this
subsection, including a description of their
itinerary, expenses, and activities, and of
pertinent information gained as a result of
such travel.
(3) Members and staff of the Committee
performing authorized travel on official busi-
ness shall be governed by applicable laws,
resolutions, and regulations of the House and
of the Committee on House Administration.
PAY OF WITNESSES
(c) Witnesses may be paid from funds made
available to the Committee in its expense
resolution subject to the provisions of clause
5 of rule XI of the Rules of the House.
RULE 8.—COMMITTEE ADMINISTRATION
REPORTING
(a) Whenever the Committee authorizes
the favorable reporting of a bill or resolution
from the Committee—
(1) The Chair or acting Chair shall report it
to the House or designate a member of the
Committee to do so.
(2) In the case of a bill or resolution in
which the Committee has original jurisdic-
tion, the Chair shall allow, to the extent
that the anticipated floor schedule permits,
any member of the Committee a reasonable
amount of time to submit views for inclusion
in the Committee report on the bill or reso-
lution. Any such report shall contain all
matters required by the Rules of the House
of Representatives (or by any provision of
law enacted as an exercise of the rulemaking
power of the House) and such other informa-
tion as the Chair deems appropriate.
(3) In the case of a resolution providing for
consideration of a measure, the Committee
report accompanying such resolution shall
include an accurate explanation of any waiv-
ers of points of order, including a detailed
explanation of all points of order.
RECORDS
(b)(1) There shall be a transcript made of
each regular meeting and hearing of the
Committee, and the transcript may be print-
ed if the Chair decides it is appropriate or if
a majority of the members of the Committee
requests such printing. Any such transcripts
shall be a substantially verbatim account of
remarks actually made during the pro-
ceedings, subject only to technical, gram-
matical, and typographical corrections au-
thorized by the person making the remarks.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed
to require that all such transcripts be sub-
ject to correction and publication.
(2) The Committee shall keep a record of
all actions of the Committee and of its sub-
committees. The record shall contain all in-
formation required by clause 2(e)(1) of rule
XI of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives and shall be available for public inspec-
tion at reasonable times in the offices of the
Committee.
(3) All Committee hearings, records, data,
charts, and files shall be kept separate and
distinct from the congressional office
records of the Chair, shall be the property of
the House, and all Members of the House
shall have access thereto as provided in
clause 2(e)(2) of rule XI of the Rules of the
House.
(4) The records of the Committee at the
National Archives and Records Administra-
tion shall be made available for public use in
accordance with rule VII of the Rules of the
House. The Chair shall notify the ranking
minority member of any decision, pursuant
to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of the rule, to
withhold a record otherwise available, and
the matter shall be presented to the Com-
mittee for a determination on written re-
quest of any member of the Committee.
AUDIO AND VIDEO COVERAGE
(c) The Chair shall provide, to the max-
imum extent practicable—
(1) complete and unedited audio and video
broadcasts of all committee hearings and
meetings; and
(2) for distribution of such broadcasts and
unedited recordings thereof to the public and
for the storage of audio and video recordings
of the proceedings. Proceedings shall be
broadcast live on the Majority Committee
website and recordings shall be made avail-
able on such website within one calendar day
of the proceeding.
COMMITTEE PUBLICATIONS ON THE INTERNET
(d) To the maximum extent feasible, the
Committee shall make its publications avail-
able in electronic form.
JOURNAL
(e)(1) The Committee shall maintain a
Committee Journal, which shall include all
bills, resolutions, and other matters referred
to or reported by the Committee and all
bills, resolutions, and other matters reported
by any other committee on which a rule has
been granted or formally requested, and such
other matters as the Chair shall direct. The
Journal shall be published periodically, but
in no case less often than once in each ses-
sion of Congress.
(2) A rule is considered as formally re-
quested when the Chairman of a committee
of primary jurisdiction which has reported a
bill or resolution (or a member of such com-
mittee authorized to act on the Chairman’s
behalf):
(A) has requested, in writing to the Chair,
that a hearing be scheduled on a rule for the
consideration of the bill or resolution; and
(B) has supplied the Committee with the
bill or resolution, as reported, together with
the final committee report thereon.
SURVEY OF ACTIVITIES REQUIREMENT
(f) The Committee’s Survey of Activities,
filed pursuant to clause 1(d) of rule XI of the
Rules of the House, shall include a compila-
tion of all known waivers of points of order
previously disclosed in reports from the
Committee on Rules pursuant to paragraph
(a)(3) of this rule or included in the Congres-
sional Record.
OTHER PROCEDURES
(g) The Chair may establish such other
Committee procedures and take such actions
as may be necessary to carry out these rules
or to facilitate the effective operation of the
Committee and its subcommittees in a man-
ner consistent with these rules.
RULE 9.—AMENDMENTS TO COMMITTEE RULES
The rules of the Committee may be modi-
fied, amended or repealed, in the same man-
ner and method as prescribed for the adop-
tion of committee rules in clause 2 of rule XI
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:17 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE7.002 H12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1524 February 12, 2019
of the Rules of the House, but only if written
notice of the proposed change has been pro-
vided to each Member at least 48 hours be-
fore the time of the meeting at which the
vote on the change occurs. Any such change
in the rules of the Committee shall be pub-
lished in the Congressional Record within 30
calendar days after their approval.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the House stands adjourned
until 10 a.m. tomorrow for morning-
hour debate.
There was no objection.
Thereupon (at 9 o’clock and 3 min-
utes a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, February 13, 2019, at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
148. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0393; Product Identifier
2018-NM-010-AD; Amendment 39-19536; AD
2018-26-06] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
149. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2016-4219; Product Identifier
2015-NM-169-AD; Amendment 39-19535; AD
2018-26-05] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
150. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-1062; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
163-AD; Amendment 39-19534; AD 2018-26-04]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
151. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0641; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
032-AD; Amendment 39-19519; AD 2018-25-08]
(RIN: 2120-AA64] received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
152. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0711; Product Identifier
2018-NM-062-AD; Amendment 39-19533; AD
2018-26-03] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
153. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Engine Alliance Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2018-0938; Product Identi-
fier 2018-NE-36-AD; Amendment 39-19480; AD
2018-22-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
154. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule- Airworthiness Directives;
Zodiac Aero Evacuation Systems (Also
Known as Air Cruisers Company) Airplanes
[Docket No.: FAA-2016-9392; Product Identi-
fier 2016-NM-003-AD; Amendment 39-19499;
AD 2018-23-12] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
155. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; CFM International S.A. Turbofan En-
gines [Docket No.: FAA-2018-1039; Product
Identifier 2018-NE-14-AD; Amendment 39-
19531; AD 2018-26-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
156. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters (Previously
Eurocopter France) Helicopters [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0669; Product Identifier 2017-SW-
041-AD; Amendment 39-19532; AD 2018-26-02]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
157. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters Deutschland GmbH
Helicopters (Type Certificate Previously
Held by Eurocopter Deutschland GmbH)
[Docket No.: FAA-2013-0555; Product Identi-
fier 2010-SW-047-AD; Amendment 39-19529; AD
2014-05-06 R1] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
158. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0803; Product Identifier
2018-NM-098-AD; Amendment 39-19526; AD
2018-25-15] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
159. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; ATR-GIE Avions de Transport
Régional Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0167; Product Identifier 2017-NM-131-AD;
Amendment 39-19530; AD 2018-25-18] (RIN:
2120-AA64) received February 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
160. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Defense and Space S.A. (For-
merly Known as Construcciones
Aeronauticas, S.A.) Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0805; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
103-AD; Amendment 39-19527; AD 2018-25-16]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
161. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Air Comm Corporation Air Condi-
tioning Systems [Docket No.: FAA-2017-1217;
Product Identifier 2016-SW-080-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19528; AD 2018-25-17] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
162. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2017-0246; Product Identifier
2017-NM-011-AD; Amendment 39-19522; AD
2018-25-11] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
163. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Fokker Services B.V. Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0802; Product Identifier
2018-NM-082-AD; Amendment 39-19525; AD
2018-25-14] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
164. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Dassault Aviation Model FALCON 2000
Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0809; Prod-
uct Identifier 2018-NM-092-AD; Amendment
39-19524; AD 2018-25-13] (RIN: 2120-AA64) re-
ceived February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
165. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0791; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
043-AD; Amendment 39-19523; AD 2018-25-12]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
166. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Aspen Avionics, Inc., Evolution Flight
Display Units [Docket No.: FAA-2018-1085;
Product Identifier 2018-SW-100-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19541; AD 2019-01-02] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:32 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE7.002 H12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1525
February 12, 2019
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
167. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-1066; Product Identifier
2018-NM-176-AD; Amendment 39-19540; AD
2019-01-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1151. A bill to allow veterans to use,
possess, or transport medical marijuana and
to discuss the use of medical marijuana with
a physician of the Department of Veterans
Affairs as authorized by a State or Indian
Tribe, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on the Judiciary,
and Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. CASTEN of
Illinois, and Ms. UNDERWOOD):
H.R. 1152. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to revise certain ethylene oxide
emissions standards under the Clean Air Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1151.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 1152.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 92: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 510: Mr. KILDEE and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 763: Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 808: Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 897: Mr. BACON, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
and Mr. CHABOT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:32 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12FE7.000 H12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1175
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019 No. 27
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Most glorious and exalted God, You
glorify humanity with Your love and
mercy. Accept our thanksgiving for
Your providential care.
Today, guide our Senators on the
road of integrity. May they seek to live
above reproach, striving to please You
in all they think, say, and do. Lord,
give them ears to hear Your divine im-
peratives and the courage to do them.
Use them to heal the wounds in our Na-
tion and world.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH.) The majority leader is
recognized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
first, I want to thank and congratulate
our colleagues who have been working
hard to secure a bipartisan, bicameral
solution to complete the appropria-
tions process and fund the government.
It had been clear to everyone that in
order to reach an agreement, our
Democratic colleagues would have to
walk away from two extreme positions
that had been dictated to them pre-
sumably by the far left—the notion
that Congress shouldn’t spend more
than ‘‘one dollar’’ on new border bar-
riers and the idea that we should im-
pose a hard, statutory cap on ICE de-
tainees in the interior of our country,
which would require the release of
criminals into the United States.
Fortunately, our Democratic col-
leagues did abandon those unreason-
able positions, and the negotiations
were able to move forward produc-
tively. Last night, Chairman SHELBY,
Senator LEAHY, and their counterparts
in the House announced they have
reached an agreement in principle,
which is certainly good news. It pro-
vides new funds for miles of new border
barriers, and it completes all seven
outstanding appropriations bills, so
Congress can complete a funding proc-
ess for all the outstanding parts of the
Federal Government with predict-
ability and with certainty.
I know I speak for Members on both
sides of the aisle when I say that we
are grateful to our colleagues on the
Appropriations Committee for their
leadership. We are eager to see them
complete this work. As we speak, our
colleagues are working hard to produce
legislative text. I look forward to re-
viewing the full text as soon as possible
and hope the Senate can act on this
legislation in short order.
f
S. 47
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday the Senate advanced S. 47,
the Natural Resources Management
Act, and later today we will vote to
pass it. The lands bill is the product of
over 100 pieces of legislation addressing
the management and preservation of
some of our Nation’s most precious
natural areas. It touches every State,
features the input of a wide coalition of
our colleagues, and has earned the sup-
port of a broad, diverse coalition of
many advocates for public lands, eco-
nomic development, and conservation.
I am especially proud that the bill
will take action on key priorities for
my own State, from protecting na-
tional monuments, to preserving the
legacy of historically Black colleges
and universities, to helping local com-
munities fight invasive species.
The fact that we are about to push
this comprehensive package across the
finish line is a credit to the dedicated
efforts of Chairman MURKOWSKI and
Ranking Member MANCHIN. From the
outset, S. 47 has benefitted from good-
faith, bipartisan efforts at the com-
mittee level and here on the floor. I
look forward to voting to pass the bill
later this afternoon. I am going to do
so enthusiastically for the people of
Kentucky and for communities across
the Nation.
f
H.R. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, last week the
House began the hearing process on
Speaker PELOSI’s signature bill, H.R. 1,
the Democrat Politician Protection
Act. I have already touched on several
of its outlandish and problematic pro-
visions. What I want to do today is
focus on one corner of the craziness. It
is the wild idea that what American
politics today is really missing is a big
taxpayer bailout of political cam-
paigns, attack-ad makers, and cam-
paign consultants.
For everyone who is now convinced
they must have misheard what I just
said, let me say five of those words
again: taxpayer bailout for political
campaigns.
It is really something. Democrats
have spent months, if not years,
crafting this sprawling, 500-plus page
Federal takeover of our political
speech and our elections. They had all
the time in the world to carefully
choose each provision and tailor their
political strategy, but even after all
that, my colleagues in the House
Democratic conference are so Wash-
ington-centric in their thinking and so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.000 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1176 February 12, 2019
happy to tax and spend other people’s
money that it never occurred to any-
one that maybe the American people
wouldn’t love the idea of their own tax
dollars being redistributed to political
campaign consultants. It never oc-
curred to them that the American peo-
ple might not like to have their tax
money redistributed to political con-
sultants. This is how out of touch with
taxpayers the modern Democratic
Party has become.
They saw all these proposals to take
the American people’s tax dollars and
funnel them into more attack ads, yard
signs, and telephone calls, and thought,
what a great idea. We will put that in.
The Democrat Political Protection Act
would do this in several different ways.
There would be a new Washington, DC-
run voucher program so that would-be
political donors could simply ask for
chunks of taxpayer money and then
hand it out to the campaigns they
favor. There would also be a brandnew,
sixfold matching program for certain
donations. The Federal Government
would literally come in—sort of the
way some businesses match their work-
ers’ charitable contributions—and use
the American people’s money to match
certain campaign contributions sixfold.
In other words, millions of dollars
would be available for each candidate
who comes along asking for his or her
share of the taxpayer loot.
Keep in mind—this would put each
taxpayer on the hook for financing the
candidates and campaigns they person-
ally disagree with. They will take our
money and give it to people we are not
for. If Democrats have their way, citi-
zens won’t just have to sit through tel-
evision commercials railing against
the candidate they plan to vote for;
now they would also have the pleasure
of bankrolling the ads. You can sit
there in front of the TV screen and
watch your tax dollars at work sup-
porting a person you are going to vote
against. People are going to love that.
When you ask Democrats why ex-
actly they would propose something as
absolutely ludicrous as a massive, new,
taxpayer-funded bailout of the perma-
nent political class, sometimes they
make vague claims that problems in
American politics would go away if
only we took more power out of the
people’s hands and shipped it here to
the Nation’s Capital. The evidence sug-
gests they are dead wrong on this. Re-
search suggests that jurisdictions—and
there are a few of them—that have
matching-fund systems in many cases
also have rampant corruption, mis-
appropriation, and waste. There are nu-
merous examples that there is still
plenty of corruption and wrongdoing in
those systems—not exactly a surprise
outcome when you centralize more
money and power through government
channels.
Public financing doesn’t appear to
change the playing field between chal-
lengers and incumbents in any way ei-
ther. Here is how one University of
Wisconsin political scientist summed it
up: ‘‘The people who propose these sys-
tems often oversell them.’’
There are no apparent benefits, sig-
nificant new costs, and they want to
stick taxpayers with the bill. This is
just another one of the Democrat Poli-
tician Protection Act’s greatest hits. I
will have more in the future.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
last night, the country heard some
good news. The members of the con-
ference committee announced a ten-
tative agreement to keep the govern-
ment open past Friday as well as pro-
vide additional border security. It was
welcome news.
All on the conference committee
worked very hard and should be com-
mended for their efforts. I talked to
them regularly. Everyone wanted to
get something done, and everyone
wanted to avoid a government shut-
down. While the details are still being
hammered out, the tentative agree-
ment represents a path forward for our
country—away from another round of
fraught negotiations up against a gov-
ernment funding cliff, away from a
dreaded government shutdown.
Over the past few months, we have
been lurching from one manufactured
crisis to another. It would be a wonder-
ful thing for this Congress to pass bills
that settle the budget issues for the
rest of this year and for the country to
finally move past. Hopefully, that is
what this agreement will portend.
Hopefully, this agreement means that
there will not be another government
shutdown on Friday—sparing the coun-
try of another nightmare of furloughed
Federal employees, snarled airports,
and economic hardship. Hopefully, it
means that we will pass not only the
DHS appropriations bill but all six
other appropriations bills—done in a
bipartisan way—that have been caught
in the tangle of these negotiations
since last year.
Each of these bills is a product of bi-
partisan consensus. Each contains
more support for programs to help the
American people—additional funding
for infrastructure, housing, money to
combat the opioid crisis, and more. We
should pass these appropriations bills
alongside this agreement on DHS.
These months of shutdown politics
must come to an end. We now have a
bipartisan proposal to accomplish our
goals, better secure the border, and
avoid another senseless government
shutdown. I don’t know the details, but
the parameters of this are good. So I
thank the members of the conference
committee.
I would make one more point. I urge
President Trump to sign this agree-
ment. We must not have a rerun of
what happened a few months back,
whereby legislators—Democratic and
Republican, House and Senate—agreed,
and President Trump pulled the rug
out from under the agreement and
caused the shutdown. If he opposes this
agreement, the same thing could hap-
pen again. We don’t need it. So I
strongly urge the President to sign this
agreement. No one gets everything one
wants in these agreements. The Presi-
dent must sign it and not cause an-
other shutdown.
f
PRESS
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on
another matter, late last week, I had
the privilege of addressing an audience
at the Newseum about the current
challenges facing the free press in
America.
I ask unanimous consent that my re-
marks be printed in the RECORD after
my remarks here.
One of the most significant chal-
lenges the press faces, of course, is eco-
nomic. Besieged by a fractured media
landscape and rapidly changing tech-
nology, newspapers have been forced to
adapt or die. Some have adapted, but
many have died.
One area in which it is particularly
troubling to me is in smaller markets
in midsized and smaller cities. In those
areas, local newspapers have been the
glue that keeps communities informed
and stitched together. I have seen it. In
cities in Upstate New York—small- and
middle-sized—big companies have left,
and some of the community banks have
been bought up by major large banks.
The things that keep a community to-
gether are greatly deteriorating. News-
papers are one of the few glues these
communities have. They are vital—way
beyond the profit and loss that they
might make. The external benefits of
these newspapers, as the economists
would say, are large, but they are in
trouble because of all the economic
issues I mentioned.
Now there is a new threat on the ho-
rizon. A few weeks ago, a hedge fund,
known as the ‘‘destroyer of news-
papers,’’ announced a bid to take over
Gannett, which, in addition to USA
Today, publishes a lot of small- and
medium-sized newspapers and four im-
portant papers in my State, those
being the Democrat and Chronicle in
Rochester, the Press & Sun in Bing-
hamton, the Poughkeepsie Journal, the
Journal News in Westchester, and
newspapers in Elmira and Ithaca.
This morning, on the front page of
the Washington Post, there is an arti-
cle about the business practices of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.001 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1177
February 12, 2019
Alden and its subsidiaries. Essentially,
Alden’s strategy is to buy up news-
papers, cut staff, and then sell the com-
mercial real estate of newsrooms and
printing presses for profit. The article
quotes several experts who have said of
Alden:
They are the ultimate cash flow merce-
nary. They want to find cash flow and bleed
it to death.
Their principle is ‘‘no new invest-
ment and sell off what you can while
you can,’’ according to analysts who
have studied it.
An analysis of the newspapers owned
by Alden revealed that it cut news-
paper staff at more than twice the rate
of its competitors. In all likelihood,
when it sells the real estate, the vast
majority of the money does not go to
revitalizing newspapers, as a newspaper
itself would do when it sells real es-
tate; it goes elsewhere. For Alden Glob-
al Capital, the hedge fund, the acquisi-
tion and streamlining of Gannett pa-
pers might increase its profits a couple
of percentage points, but the loss of the
Press & Sun and the Democrat and
Chronicle would be incalculable.
Let me ask the American people and
every one of my colleagues here: What
is more important—having our news-
papers go on, which is so important to
local communities, or having a hedge
fund raise its market profits by five
points, if it is public, or by a certain
amount? What is more important? I
would argue: the newspapers.
The Gannett consortium was already
the result of a consolidated news busi-
ness, with one reporter working mul-
tiple beats and placing stories in mul-
tiple newspapers. I have seen that in
Upstate New York. What was already
an overburdened, undersourced oper-
ation now faces potential annihilation
by an indifferent media conglomerate
that is backed by an even more indif-
ferent hedge fund.
What do we do about this?
I don’t know how to solve the broader
economic problem for newspapers, big
and small. I hope there is a solution.
The only antidote to these problems, as
I have seen, is the rarer and rarer pres-
ence of generous, civic-minded families
and individuals who own news outlets
for the right reasons, not simply to
maximize profits—although profit is
still important—but because they feel
an obligation to advance journalism for
the greater benefit of us all. Everyone
has seen this work at flagship news-
papers, but the family model has
worked in smaller markets as well, in-
cluding at several papers in Upstate
New York.
So I would propose that charitably
inclined institutions and individuals
should begin to think of journalism as
a philanthropic endeavor. If it becomes
a worthy endeavor to buy a local news-
paper and preserve its size and inde-
pendence—just as it is a worthy en-
deavor to support the local hospital,
school, charity—many more might con-
sider doing it.
As Americans, we must continue to
support the First Amendment—the
freedom and viability of the press. Our
democracy depends on it.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[CES Prepared Remarks—Feb. 7, 2019]
JOURNALISTS ARE NOT THE ENEMY
Good afternoon everyone. Thank you, Gene
Policinski, for that kind introduction and
for your help in hosting. Thank you to Mar-
jorie for your work at the Globe, your work
on this event, and allowing me to cut you in
line to give remarks.
Thank you also to Linda Henry for the in-
vitation to address you today. It’s a good
time to be a Henry. Much to my chagrin, the
Red Sox were champions again this year,
which—no matter how many times it has
happened—will always be a bit bemusing to
us Yankee fans with 27 championships. It
stings, but Sox fans: you have a long way to
go.
I didn’t want to miss the opportunity to be
here with you this afternoon, because, as you
all know, I have such respect and admiration
for the press. At the Al Smith Dinner a few
years back, President Obama joked that I
brought the press along with me as my
‘‘loved ones.’’ And just as I do with my loved
ones, I worry about the future of the media;
the future of journalism.
We live in a time of immense challenge:
economic, global, political. The institutions
of our democracy are being tested in ways
they haven’t been tested since the early days
of the Republic. If ever there were a time for
a vigorous Fourth Estate—to ferret out the
facts, inform a divided nation, and hold
power to account—it’s right now.
But journalism, in its moment of max-
imum import, is also at its moment of max-
imum peril. Besieged by large economic
forces and rapidly changing technology,
journalism has been forced to adapt or die.
Some have adapted; many have died. On top
of these economic forces, the media faces a
relentless campaign of de-legitimization
waged by the most powerful office in the free
world.
This afternoon, I’d like to discuss both of
these challenges with you; what they mean
for our country and what we might do about
them.
I want to begin by talking about the con-
certed effort to destroy the credibility of
most news organizations.
To do that, I have to wind back the clock
a bit to the start of the Internet era, which
allowed the media universe to splinter into a
near-infinite number of outlets, some of
which do important niche reporting, but
many of which are hyper-partisan, whose
sole purpose is to market news to a specific
political demographic.
It used to be in America that we had a na-
tional town hall every night at 6 o’clock
with the ABC, CBS, and NBC evening news-
casts. You watched CBS if you liked
Cronkite, or NBC if you preferred Huntley-
Brinkley. But regardless of what channel we
chose, we all got the same information; ev-
eryone started with the same common fact
base that helped us relate to one another at
the water cooler.
The same went for major newspapers. As
Arthur Miller quipped, ‘‘a good newspaper, I
suppose, is a nation talking to itself.’’ Our
nation is no longer talking to itself—we’re
not even speaking the same language.
1987 was a pivot point, when the Reagan
FCC withdrew the Fairness Doctrine. No
longer were stations compelled to report
controversial issues in a manner that was
honest, equitable and balanced. The with-
drawal of the Fairness Doctrine took the
leash off, allowing stations of any political
bent to report the news as they saw fit.
This was taken advantage of by folks from
every dot on the political spectrum, but fig-
ures like Rupert Murdoch, Roger Ailes, An-
drew Breitbart and Steve Bannon took per-
haps the greatest advantage. They realized
they could cultivate a network of partisan
media outlets, walking right up to—and
sometimes crossing—the line of blurring fact
and fiction.
Enter President Trump: stage right.
Fueled by his derision for all but the most
flattering reporting, President Trump has
taken it one step further.
His goal, it seems, is to discredit the media
altogether as a check on his power, to say to
the American people that newspapers are ir-
relevant, ‘‘the failing New York Times;’’
that all journalists are evil, ‘‘the enemy of
the people;’’
that virtually all news is false, ‘‘fake
news.’’
Let’s be honest here: the president tells
more lies than any president we have ever
seen.
When the press tells the truth, when the
press speaks truth to power, when the press
does its job: President Trump can’t handle
it. He calls it fake.
When President Trump labels something
‘‘fake news,’’ it is inevitably critical of him,
and most often, true.
Perhaps the president’s penchant for call-
ing stories ‘‘fake’’ could have been ignored or
viewed with appropriate skepticism 25 years
ago. But because there is an entire eco-
system of partisan news outlets and col-
umnists that are in total fealty to the presi-
dent, who don’t value the free press as much
as their own political ideology or profit—the
‘‘fake news’’ contagion has spread, beyond
even the president’s most ardent supporters,
for a number of reasons.
We live in an age during which nearly all
institutions are mistrusted. Faith in the
news media, historically one of the most
trusted institutions, has declined like so
many others—the government, the Church,
corporate America, schools and universities.
But if the public, broadly speaking, loses
all faith in the media—if the public comes to
believe that all news is fake—that’s the be-
ginning of the end of America as we know it.
So I want to speak directly to the members
of the media in the audience and those who
may be watching . . .
Your job is more important than ever.
It’s important to rebut alternative facts
with facts.
It’s important to correct the president’s
lies.
And it is equally important that you not
let the president wear you down or throw
you off course . . . to think—maybe we
should tone it down a little, maybe we can
let that one go, when in fact it should be the
opposite.
Dictators throughout the course of history
have learned that the best way to consoli-
date power is to capture or totally discredit
the news media.
Your mission goes beyond rebutting
Trump’s lies, important as that may be.
Your mission is intertwined with the future
of our democracy.
President Johnson said that ‘‘an informed
mind is the guardian genius of democracy.’’
That’s what good journalism does. It in-
forms. It establishes truth. It is like a guard-
rail for the country—keeping us from swerv-
ing off the road and over a cliff
At a time when those fundamental prin-
ciples are under attack—including the very
nature of truth—keeping the media strong,
keeping the media free, keeping the media
alive . . . has never been more important.
So I salute you. You are doing a noble
thing. You just have to just stay the course,
charge ahead, undaunted and undeterred.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.002 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1178 February 12, 2019
Don’t flag or lose faith. The Trump presi-
dency has reinvigorated a level of interest in
journalism not seen since Watergate. At the
CUNY Journalism school, the number of ap-
plications last year were 40% higher than
they were the year before. So long as jour-
nalists continue to do their jobs without fear
or favor, I truly believe that the president’s
assault on the free press will not succeed.
Now, the second challenge facing jour-
nalism is also menacing, also existential: the
arrival of the internet—the Huffington Post
and Buzzfeed, followed closely by Twitter,
Facebook, and social media—brought an end
to the traditional business model for news-
papers. Consumers expect their news instan-
taneously, and they often expect it to be
free. Subscriptions and newsstand sales fell.
Craigslist became the preferred destination
for classified ads, the most reliable revenue
stream for newspapers. Facebook, Twitter,
and Google gobbled up the remaining ad rev-
enue as venues for the journalism of others.
I submit to you that it is not an accident
that Facebook’s home page is called the
‘‘news feed.’’
Like a boat taking on water faster than it
can be bailed out: newsrooms shrunk, the in-
dustry consolidated, and many once-revered
papers simply sunk.
None of this is ‘‘news’’ as would you say—
but the collapse of the newspaper’s business
model is still claiming victims. One area
where it’s particularly troubling to me is in
smaller markets, in mid-sized and smaller
cities. The most striking example I’ve seen is
in upstate New York. Just a few years ago,
the major newspaper in a town of 70,000 had
fifteen full-time reporters. Now it has two.
For generations, local newspapers and tele-
vision stations have been the glue that keeps
small communities informed and stitched to-
gether. In a big city, there are many inter-
locking layers of civic life: social clubs, reli-
gious groups, sports teams, municipal orga-
nizations. But in many smaller cities and
towns, the local paper is the most robust
civic organization left in that community.
When Kodak was in Rochester, it looked
out for its civic life, its charities, its com-
munities. But there is no more Kodak. When
the community bank headquartered in El-
mira was purchased, a national bank came in
and took much less interest in the commu-
nity life of Elmira. When Walmart came in
and supplanted every clothing and hardware
store all across upstate, it eroded both the fi-
nances and social fabric of those commu-
nities. Local newspapers are one of the few
institutions left in smaller cities and towns.
Just anecdotally, cities with strong, success-
ful papers—like Buffalo with the Buffalo
News—tend to do better economically and
those papers help foster a strong sense of
community and connectedness.
So I have a particular concern when small-
er papers and smaller television networks
are forced to downsize, reorganize, or close.
Unfortunately, in my home state of New
York, an already bleak picture just got
bleaker. Last week, a hedge fund known as
the ‘‘destroyer of newspapers’’ announced a
bid to take over Gannet, which, in addition
to USA Today, publishes four important pa-
pers in my state, all in mid-size to smaller
cities: the Rochester Democrat and Chron-
icle, the Binghamton Press & Sun, the
Poughkeepsie Journal, and the Journal News
in the Lower Hudson Valley.
For Alden Global Capital, the hedge fund,
the acquisition and ‘‘streamlining’’ of Gan-
net newspapers might increase its profits a
couple of percentage points. But the loss of
the Binghamton Press & Sun and the Roch-
ester Democrat & Chronicle would be incal-
culable.
The Gannet consortium was already the re-
sult of a consolidated news business, with
one reporter working multiple beats and
placing stories in multiple newspapers. What
was already an overburdened, under-
resourced operation now faces potential an-
nihilation by an indifferent media conglom-
erate backed by an even more indifferent
hedge fund.
And in my view, losing a newspaper in
Rochester is even worse than losing one in
Dallas. I am left angry and searching for an-
swers. What do we do about this?
I don’t know how to solve the broader eco-
nomic problem for newspapers big and small.
Federal support is problematic beyond NPR
and PBS. The press must remain adversarial;
acting and appearing independent.
The only antidote to these problems I have
seen is the rarer and rarer presence of gen-
erous, civic-minded families and individuals
who own news outlets for the right reasons—
not simply to maximize profits, although
profit is still important, but because they
feel an obligation to advance journalism for
the greater benefit of us all. Newspapers that
belong to families or trusts have been some
of the few to survive the last two decades,
isolated in part from market pressures.
Everyone has seen this work at places like
the Globe, the Times, and the Post, but the
family model has worked in smaller markets
as well. The Watertown Times, for example,
is owned by the Johnson family and it does
as much for the North Country in upstate
New York as any institution.
I would propose, to you and your broader
audience, that charitably-inclined institu-
tions and individuals should begin to think
of journalism as a philanthropic endeavor.
The plight of the Fourth Estate should move
the conscience of the nation. If it became a
worthy endeavor to buy a local paper and
preserve it’s size and independence—just as
it’s a worthy endeavor to support the local
hospital, school, or charity—many more
might consider doing it.
The Guardian, for example, operates on a
reader-donation model—which funds its en-
tire online presence. Journalism is a public
good. From philanthropists to average read-
ers: we should all start treating it as such.
This is just one idea. I’m sure there are
better ones. God knows I don’t have the an-
swers. But from where I stand, I see the same
problems that you all understand so well,
and I am pained for solutions.
Because, throughout history, the Fourth
Estate has always kept our government in
check when it’s gone astray, perhaps more
than anywhere else around the world. We
rely on newspapers to inform our citizens,
shine a light on injustice, establish the facts,
and hold elected officials like me account-
able. A free and robust Fourth Estate is how
we discern democracy from autocracy and
guard against the slide from one to the
other.
This is a time when many of us who have
had complete faith in the wellspring of de-
mocracy that has graced our country genu-
inely worry if it will endure.
The fact that you, the free press, are there
at the bulwark—independent, strong, and
fearless, in cities big and small—gives me
solace that despite our current peril, the
greatness of America will ultimately prevail.
As Americans, we must continue to sup-
port the First Amendment; the freedom—and
viability—of the press. It’s nothing short of
a moral imperative.
Thank you.
Mr. SCHUMER. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT ACT—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S. 47, which the
clerk will report.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 47) to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Pending:
Murkowski/Manchin Modified Amendment
No. 111, in the nature of a substitute.
Murkowski Amendment No. 112 (to Amend-
ment No. 111), to modify the authorization
period for the Historically Black Colleges
and Universities Historic Preservation pro-
gram.
Rubio/Scott (FL) Amendment No. 182 (to
Amendment No. 112), to give effect to more
accurate maps of units of the John H. Chafee
Costal Barrier Resources System that were
produced by digital mapping.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip is recognized.
GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, last
Thursday, Democrats released their
plan for a Green New Deal, although
‘‘plan’’ might be a bit of a stretch. It is
more like a wish list because while
Democrats announced their desired
outcomes like getting rid of fossil fuels
or upgrading every single building in
the United States, they provided no de-
tails at all about how to get there. In
particular, they failed to provide any
details on how to pay for the stag-
gering costs of what they are proposing
to do.
Take just one provision of the Demo-
crats’ green wish list: ‘‘Upgrading all
existing buildings in the United States
and building new buildings to achieve
maximum energy efficiency, water effi-
ciency, safety, affordability, comfort,
and durability, including through elec-
trification.’’ That is a direct quote
from the so-called plan, upgrading all
existing buildings—all existing build-
ings.
Well, the cost of that provision alone
is practically inconceivable, but that is
just a small fraction of what the Demo-
crats want to do. Their wish list also
includes ‘‘meeting 100 percent of the
power demand in the United States
through clean, renewable, and zero-
emission energy sources, including by
dramatically expanding and upgrading
renewable power sources and by de-
ploying new capacity; overhauling
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.002 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1179
February 12, 2019
transportation systems in the United
States to remove pollution and green-
house gas emissions from the transpor-
tation sector as much as is techno-
logically feasible’’ and much, much
more, and they don’t limit themselves
to energy initiatives either. They also
announced that a Green New Deal must
include guaranteeing every person in
the United States a job, healthcare,
paid vacations, and more.
It is possible the reason the Demo-
crats didn’t provide any details about
how to pay for their plan is because
they knew that outlining the actual
cost would sink their plan from the
very beginning. I cannot even imagine
the staggering amount of money that
would be required to pay for the ideas
on their wish list, and that money will
come from the pockets of the American
people.
Like other socialist fantasies, this is
not a plan that can be paid for by
merely taking money from the rich.
Actually implementing this so-called
Green New Deal would involve taking
money from working families—and not
a little bit of money either.
Before the introduction of last
week’s absurd resolution, the Green
New Deal was modeled and projected to
cost American families up to $3,800 a
year in higher energy bills, and $3,800 a
year in higher energy costs would be
hard enough for most working families
I meet, but that would be just the tip
of the iceberg under the Democrats’
plan because, of course, if your elec-
tricity costs are higher, then so are
your business’s electricity costs, your
doctor’s electricity costs, the elec-
tricity costs at neighborhood res-
taurants, and the electricity costs at
your gym, and all of these places are
going to charge more money to cover
their cost increases so you are going to
be paying more in electric bills and
more on everything else as well.
Then there is the fact that the gov-
ernment will not be able to pay for
one-quarter of what is outlined in the
Green New Deal without raising your
taxes by a lot. There is no question
that socialist fantasies sound nice—
they always do—until they end up vic-
timizing the very people they are
meant to help.
As Ronald Reagan is reported to have
said, ‘‘Socialism only works in two
places: Heaven where they don’t need
it, and hell where they already have
it.’’
Democrats’ gauzy, nebulous proposal
may sound appealing on the surface,
but it would devastate our economy
and be paid for on the backs of working
families in this country. The Green
New Deal would be a very bad deal for
the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President,
today we are making some great
progress on a bill that is very impor-
tant to so many Members in this
Chamber and particularly important to
the American people—a public lands
package that, in some cases, has taken
years for these bills to process through
the Senate and hopefully are on their
way to passage in the House and to the
President’s desk.
For 4 years, since being in the Sen-
ate, I have worked to permanently re-
authorize the crown jewel of our con-
servation programs, and we are about
to have that crown jewel success, per-
manent authorization of the Land and
Water Conservation Fund—the passage
of the public lands bill. The Senate will
finally take an up-or-down vote and
move forward on permanent authoriza-
tion of LWCF.
I have championed this program with
so many of my colleagues in a bipar-
tisan way, Republicans and Democrats.
It is time for this body to act and make
sure that we do what is right for the
people of Colorado and beyond with
this reauthorization.
This program has an incredible direct
impact on public lands in Colorado and
will be used to protect our State’s
amazing natural beauty for genera-
tions to come.
Outdoor recreation opportunities in
Colorado abound. The outdoor recre-
ation opportunities in Colorado make
it the destination for recreation, for
adventure, for opportunity. You can
hike in the summer, hunt in the fall,
ski in the winter, raft in the spring. We
have it all.
Those activities and more have led to
an incredible outdoor economy that is
booming like never before. It generates
the outdoor economy. It generates
something like $28 billion in consumer
spending in the State and $2 billion in
State and local tax revenue. That is
people coming in to camp, to hunt, to
fish, to ski—incredible employment op-
portunities. Up to 230,000 people in Col-
orado alone are employed in the out-
door recreation economy.
We don’t just have this economy by
chance. We have it because of our pub-
lic lands and the extensive efforts that
so many in this Chamber have under-
taken over the years to conserve them
in a condition that the next generation
will also get to enjoy.
One of our best tools to conserve and
protect the public’s lands has lapsed,
though—it goes back to the very begin-
ning of our conversation today—the
Land and Water Conservation Fund. It
has been over 100 days since the Land
and Water Conservation Fund expired,
a fund, a program, a conservation tool
that has broad bipartisan support. It is
an access program. LWCF is an access
program. It is there to sustain access
to land that may otherwise be cut off
from public enjoyment, to provide ac-
cess to land that has been closed off to
recreationists, to environmentalists.
The opportunities we have to enjoy
this land, the LWCF restores.
In the days leading up to the expira-
tion of the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund, a report was published by
the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation
Partnership, and it published some fig-
ures on public land acreage that is in-
accessible to the American public.
It identified over 9.5 million acres in
the Western United States alone that
is inaccessible to the public because of
the surrounding public lands; that is,
9.5 million acres of land that belongs to
the American people that the Amer-
ican people have no access to because
it is surrounded.
The Land and Water and Conserva-
tion Fund is used to help give access to
land that the American people already
own, to enjoy, to benefit from, to cre-
ate economic opportunities, and, more
importantly, to create the opportunity
just to be in our amazing, wonderful
outdoors.
In Colorado alone, there are over
250,000 acres that are closed off to the
public. These are 250,000 acres of pub-
licly held lands that are closed off be-
cause you don’t have access.
That translates into just shy of 400
square miles of public land in Colo-
rado—basically, the same amount of
land of the entire Rocky Mountain Na-
tional Park—that can’t be used to
hike, to hunt, and to fish, even though
it belongs to the American people to
hike, to hunt, to fish, to think, to hope,
to dream, to plan, to resolve. They are
those things that we admire and need
our public lands for—the opportunity
to think, to hope, to admire, to plan, to
rest, to resolve.
Since its creation, the Land and
Water Conservation Fund has provided
more than $258 million in support for
Colorado public lands projects. Again,
the opportunity to have this perma-
nent reauthorization today is incred-
ible. It is supported by this Chamber,
and it is supported, certainly, by peo-
ple across the political spectrum in
Colorado. It is a great day for Colo-
rado. It is a great day for public lands.
I want to show and share some of the
incredible beauty we are talking about.
This is a picture of Black Canyon of
the Gunnison National Park in Colo-
rado. You can see the Gunnison River
through the canyon, and you can see
the rim of the canyon. If you go to the
next shot, though, you will see some of
the land that was purchased by the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.
You can see the top of the rim looking
down over the river.
The top of the canyon was owned by
a family. It was privately held land.
They could have sold it off. They could
have developed the land. You can see
Bruce Noble, the park superintendent,
pointing at the rim of the canyon, the
land that was purchased using Land
and Water Conservation Fund dollars.
That land belonged to a family that,
thanks to LWCF, was purchased and
held for the National Park Service so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.004 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1180 February 12, 2019
that it doesn’t risk development and
we don’t risk losing access and so that
somebody is not going to put barriers
to access this incredible majestic
place. You see that land right there,
and that is just one example of how im-
portant the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund is.
The Black Canyon LWCF purchase
was about 2,494 acres. Imagine that—
private land, nearly 2,500 acres of land,
held within the national park, that
could have been sold off to a developer.
Imagine what could have happened.
But this land allows us to continue to
have access to gold medal fly fishing on
the Gunnison River. It creates poten-
tial opportunities for the National
Park Service to provide more family-
friendly hiking closer to the visitor
center, and it serves as a potential
source of water to the South Rim,
which will reduce the operational costs
of hauling water to meet visitor and
staff need. It was a win for everyone—
for the family who wanted to sell their
land but not have it developed and cer-
tainly for the American people, who
now have an incredible addition to
their national park.
If we go to the next picture. This
next picture is a picture in the distance
of the Great Sand Dunes National
Park. You can see the light-colored
sand at the foot of the mountain range.
There is a 12,000-acre ranch, the
Medano Zapata Ranch, which borders
the sand dunes on three sides. These
are some of the highest sand dunes in
North America. It has been bought by
the Nature Conservancy, one of the
great conservation partners of the
LWCF, and it is going through the
process to be incorporated into the
park by using Land and Water Con-
servation Fund dollars.
This is so important. This access
with this purchase is so important be-
cause it will help us to have access,
once again, to existing public lands,
keeping these incredibly beautiful
working lands conserved for healthy
wildlife habitat.
This is an inholding purchase.
Inholding purchases are not the only
way LWCF benefits the outdoors, how-
ever. The National Park Service,
through LWCF State and local assist-
ance programs, provides matching
grants for State and local park projects
that aren’t inside the national park
borders.
LWCF isn’t just about our forests, ei-
ther, or BLM land, or national parks.
It is also about local parks, bike trails,
playgrounds—these little slices of
Heaven among concrete and the chaos
that provide us that respite in our
daily lives to plan, to hope, to think,
and to rest.
In addition to the permanent reau-
thorization of LWCF, this package in-
cludes legislation that I supported, au-
thored, and worked very hard the last
several years to be included.
For Colorado, it includes the Crags,
Colorado Land Exchange Act. This will
allow us and the U.S. Forest Service to
have better access to the Barr Trail,
working to allow greater public use of
their public lands.
The Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act.
In Congress, when we have legislation
like this, sometimes our colleagues,
particularly in the East, don’t nec-
essarily have this problem that they
are dealing with each and every day.
We have a community in the moun-
tains where their water supply goes
through a wilderness area. As a result,
you can’t take mechanized, motorized
equipment to fix this water project,
this waterway. So Congress has to pass
a bill to allow this city to have the
ability to fix its water system. That is
exactly what we do in the Bolts Ditch
Access and Use Act. The 1980 Holy
Cross Wilderness Area didn’t address
this problem. Here we are, nearly 40
years later, addressing this challenge
and allowing the community to move
forward to fix its water system.
We included in this legislation a bill
to update the map and modify the max-
imum acreage available for inclusion
in the Florissant Fossil Beds National
Monument. The park is currently re-
stricted—this incredible national
monument—to 6,000 acres. However,
somebody wanted to give some of their
land to the national monument. So we
have added 280 acres of land to this in-
credible national monument.
We have reauthorized the Endangered
Fish Recovery Program. This was
originally created in 1988, over concern
for four endangered fish in the Upper
Colorado River. The Upper Colorado
Endangered Fish Recovery Implemen-
tation Program has been extended mul-
tiple times over the last 30 years, most
recently in 2013. It is a science-based,
basin-wide approach to make sure that
we recover these species and to make
sure that this program has taken to
preclude any lawsuits being filed, de-
spite the diverse stakeholder group in-
volved. This legislation will extend the
authorization of the program through
2023.
It also creates a feasibility study to
look into whether or not we should des-
ignate Amache, the site of a Japanese-
American internment site in south-
eastern Colorado, as a national park.
During World War II, tens of thousands
of Japanese-Americans were wrong-
fully removed from their homes and
held in internment centers. One such
internment center, located in the east-
ern plains of Colorado, near the town of
Granada, and that became known as
Amache, was designated as a national
historic landmark in 2005. This intern-
ment site is the best preserved among
the entire system of internment sites
that were used during World War II. To
name this a national park—to have
that recognition—is an important re-
minder of a very dark period in our his-
tory that we would never repeat the in-
ternment of Japanese-Americans. This
is a study to do just that.
I have also been part as cosponsor
and original sponsor of other legisla-
tion: the Arapaho National Forest
Boundary Adjustment Act and the
Fowler and Boskoff Peaks Designation
Act. Charlie Fowler and Christine
Boskoff, who tragically lost their lives
in China in an avalanche in 2006, were
world-renowned climbers. We are nam-
ing two peaks after them in Colorado.
This bill authorizes a feasibility
study for the Pike National Historic
Trail.
It authorizes a bill that we worked
on with Senator CANTWELL—the Wild-
fire Management Technology Advance-
ment Act of 2017, a bill designed to pro-
tect men and women in firefighting
from harm and injury and to give them
greater tools on the behavior of fire.
Every single one of these bills in the
package has undergone extensive pub-
lic review in the Senate and the House.
They have gone through a lot of legis-
lative process.
I thank my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle for getting to this moment
as we pass this very critically impor-
tant piece of legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Ms. CANTWELL. Madam President, I
come to the floor to talk about S. 47, a
bill I authored with Senator MUR-
KOWSKI. It is a package of public land
issues that has been working its way
through the Congress now for several
years.
I would like to point out to people
who may not be as familiar with the
Interior side of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee’s work, that the
Interior side has a long history in our
Nation. We decided a long time ago
that we needed to have oversight and
management of our public lands. S. 47,
the legislation that is before us today,
is a recognition that our climate is
changing and that we need new tools to
carry out new responsibilities as it re-
lates to managing those public lands.
I thank my colleague from Alaska,
Senator MURKOWSKI, for her incredible
leadership. I know we are going, hope-
fully, to go to final passage of this bill
sometime today, and I thank her for
her good bipartisan work on this legis-
lation. It is safe to say that even
though we both come from the Pacific
Northwest, we don’t see eye to eye on
every issue, but we have worked hard
to try to give local communities the
resources they need and to maintain
the national interest where the na-
tional interest was at stake. So I can’t
applaud my colleague enough for her
hard work and for her dedication to
getting this particular package moving
through the Senate.
I also want to thank a lot of the staff
who have worked on this issue because
I know that it is about the hard work
of legislating. There are many issues
about which maybe not everybody un-
derstands all of the details to, but, I
guarantee you, all the details were
critically important. So I want to in
particular thank Mary Louise Wagner,
the minority staff director for the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.006 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1181
February 12, 2019
until recently. I certainly also want to
thank the dynamic duo of David
Brooks and Sam Fowler who, as coun-
sel to the committee, have played an
incredible role over the last many
years in preserving what is most im-
portant about our public lands. I also
want to thank, additionally, Bryan
Petit, Rebecca Bonner, Amit Ronen,
and several of the staff who have
worked on many of the aspects of this
package; Camille Touton, Melanie
Stansbury, and David Reeploeg and
Megan Thompson who played key roles
in the Yakima provisions. And Angela
Becker-Dippmann who previously
worked on this legislation.
I also thank Senator MURKOWSKI’s
staff, Brian Hughes, Kellie Donnelly,
and particularly, Lucy Murfitt. I don’t
think we ever could have gotten this
package through without her due dili-
gence and hard work. I thank Lane
Dickson and Michelle Lane.
I also thank my colleagues in the
House of Representatives. I certainly
want to thank the staff director for
Congressman GRIJALVA, David Wat-
kins, but I also thank Chairman GRI-
JALVA for his hard work and Congress-
man BISHOP. It is safe to say that all
four of us, working together—Senator
MURKOWSKI, myself, Congressman
BISHOP, and Congressman GRIJALVA—
definitely didn’t always see eye to eye
on these issues, but we worked hard to
resolve these issues. I also thank my
colleagues, Congressman Dave
Reichert and Congressman DAN
NEWHOUSE, for their work on provisions
related to Washington State.
Before I get started in talking about
the major provisions of this legislation
and why they are so important, I also
have to call out several of my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
who have played key roles.
Certainly, the historic Utah wilder-
ness provision would not be this lands
package without my former colleague,
Senator Orrin Hatch. He played such
an incredible role over a long period of
time in shaping the provisions as they
affect Utah, and I thank him for that
and for working with our colleague on
this side of the aisle, Senator DURBIN,
on that important aspect of the pack-
age.
We would not be where we are today
on the fire provisions without my col-
league Senator GARDNER. Both Wash-
ington and Colorado have taken it on
the chin time and again with dev-
astating forest fires, and we know why
it is so important to give firefighters
and the land managers the best pos-
sible tools available to locate the fires
and keep track of frontline firefighters.
We need a more hasty response to
putting out fires, and having GPS and
tracking systems are going to help us
do that. So I thank my colleague from
Colorado for helping with this legisla-
tion.
It is safe to say that without the
strong determination of Senator BURR,
we probably wouldn’t be here right now
on the permanent reauthorization of
the Land and Water Conservation
Fund.
Making the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund permanent represents
the ethos that we have in the Senate
here today that public lands are impor-
tant to our Nation. They are important
for recreating, for hunting, for fishing,
for moving forward on access to these
lands that are important for our vet-
erans, for our school children, and for
those who just may want to go out and
access the outdoors and reconnect.
We have had a big discussion here
about whether we should return public
lands to oil and gas drilling, and this
bill basically says no, we are going to
make a bigger investment in our public
lands.
We are going to make this program
permanent, and we are going to make
sure it is a key tool to continue to
solve our problems of access to public
land, particularly in parts of the coun-
try where access to those public lands
is being eroded by development. That is
exactly what the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund helps us do—to protect
those areas so that either we can con-
tinue to have, for example, elk hunt-
ing, for which we did a big project in
southwest Washington, or whether it is
helping to improve access to Mount
Rainier, a huge economic asset to the
State of Washington, or whether it is
as simple as giving a community like
Auburn or Gas Works Park in Seattle
access to a program that can help us
keep open space in some of our most
developing areas.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund has been a preeminent program
for access to public lands, but it had
been threatened when Congress allowed
it to expire 3 years ago, then only hav-
ing a temporary reauthorization, and
then failing again to reauthorize it last
September.
What we are doing here now is saying
that this is a bipartisan issue, that
more than 60 Senators here in the Sen-
ate didn’t just see that we needed to
further adjust this program but we
needed to save this program. I empha-
size this because I know my colleagues
here in the Senate are going to go on
to a larger discussion, which is to se-
cure the funding that is set aside for
the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and how it is spent, and we are going to
get into a conversation about how we
take care of our maintenance and the
backlog at our national parks. I defi-
nitely believe that the mandatory
spending for LWCF should be in a fu-
ture budget, and I certainly believe we
should do more to take care of our
backlog and maintenance at our na-
tional parks. So I look forward to
working with both sides of the aisle to
push that through the U.S. Senate.
This legislation is amazing because
there are some—particularly in this ad-
ministration—who want to use public
lands to oil and gas drilling, but there
is a bipartisan group here in the U.S.
Senate who has said: No, we want to
put more focus on saving our public
lands. This legislation preserves over
1.3 million acres of new wilderness, and
367 miles of wild and scenic rivers. It
allows conveyances of land but also
protects lands from potential mining
and development projects—like remov-
ing the threat of mining and develop-
ment in the Methow Valley in the
State of Washington. It also continues
to make investments in heritage areas
that are important to many parts of
the United States of America.
I want to talk about how this bill in-
vests in water. The water issues are
like fire; they are not going to go
away. The only question is going to be
this: What kinds of tools do we give
communities across the West—and I
should say probably throughout the
United States—to deal with the chang-
ing climate and the impacts of less and
less water?
What this legislation says for ideas
like the Yakima Basin Project is that
we are not going to divide people and
choose farming over fish. We are not
going to divide people and choose one
aspect of the environment over the
other. It says that we are going to look
to smart, holistic, and cost-effective
ways to preserve more water and enact
smart conservation across our State
and country.
This is so important because the
water issues are not going to go away,
but this legislation represents impor-
tant new tools to fight those chal-
lenges and to move forward in a way
that I think will prove to be an exam-
ple of what we should be doing in other
parts of the United States.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues in trying to fund more
water infrastructure improvements and
conservation. I think this is just as im-
portant as any other infrastructure in-
vestment we are talking about in the
U.S. Senate today. I know we see con-
gestion in our streets. I know we need
to do more on aviation infrastructure.
But I guarantee you that we need to do
more on water, and I look forward to
working with my colleagues on these
challenges in the future.
One aspect that I don’t know if my
colleagues on the floor have as much
interest in as Senator MURKOWSKI and I
do, but there is a provision on volcano
monitoring that is very important to
us.
Having experienced the eruption of
Mount St. Helens in Washington State
and having active volcanoes in both
Washington and Alaska, it is so impor-
tant for us to have the right science
and monitoring of these volcanoes. I
was glad to work with my colleague
Senator MURKOWSKI on that provision
to give the latest and best tools to our
scientists so that they can give us the
best information for the future.
All in all, this legislation is a major
investment in our public lands. It is
the kind of hard work that happens be-
hind the scenes that not everybody
pays attention to. I guarantee you that
when you use the word ‘‘land,’’ there
are a lot of people to pay attention to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.007 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1182 February 12, 2019
There are local communities. There are
landowners. There are environmental
interests. There are all sorts of very,
very thorny issues that have to be
worked out. I thank all of my col-
leagues for their due diligence on this.
Some people have said: Why is it that
a lands package comes together only at
the end of a Congress or, in this case,
held over from last Congress into this
session? I hope our colleagues will give
more attention to these important pub-
lic policies.
Public lands and access to those
lands is an economic juggernaut. Be-
hind finance and healthcare, the out-
door economy is the third most impor-
tant sector. So for something that im-
portant, let’s pay more attention. Let’s
give the tools to local communities
and to these resources to manage this,
to give more access to the American
people, and to do the things that will
help us grow jobs and help us recreate
for the future and preserve against a
very challenging and threatening cli-
mate.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The assistant Demo-
cratic leader.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today,
the Senate will finish its work on the
Natural Resources Management Act.
This is a bipartisan package addressing
over 100 public lands, natural re-
sources, and water. It will provide pro-
tection for a number of historical sites
and treasured landscapes across the
country.
One of those sites is in my home
State of Illinois. This lands package
would include a bill I have cosponsored
with my colleague Senator TAMMY
DUCKWORTH to expand the Lincoln Na-
tional Heritage Area. It would expand
the heritage area to include several
areas in Central Illinois that were a
critical part of President Abraham Lin-
coln’s life, including the site of Lin-
coln’s legal career within the eighth ju-
dicial district, as well as the sites of
the famous Lincoln-Douglas debates.
By expanding the Lincoln Natural
Heritage Area, we can give more Illi-
nois residents and visitors a chance to
learn more about President Lincoln’s
legacy to our State and Nation.
In addition, this lands package con-
tains legislation that Senator Orrin
Hatch of Utah introduced in the last
Congress to protect over 700,000 acres
of land in Emery County, UT.
I have worked for many, many years
to protect the stunning, fragile, and
amazing desert landscape in Utah
through the Red Rock Wilderness Act,
which I have introduced and reintro-
duced over a period of time. While I
would like to have seen the Red Rock
Wilderness Act included in this pack-
age, Senator Hatch and I worked to-
gether to protect some of the land cov-
ered by my bill in a bipartisan com-
promise that is, in fact, included in
this bill.
This lands package also contains an
important tool for conservation and
recreation throughout the country,
permanently reauthorizing the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, also
known as LWCF.
In Illinois, the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund has invested more than
$213 million to protect outdoor spaces,
public access to trails, parks, and his-
toric sites. Permanent reauthorization
of this critical program should have
happened a long time ago, but I am
glad we have finally reached a bipar-
tisan moment of achievement in pass-
ing it as part of this legislation.
I look forward to the enactment of
this legislation to protect these impor-
tant areas in Illinois and across the
Nation.
STERIGENICS AND ETHYLENE OXIDE
Mr. President, there is often kind of
a casual debate about regulation and
the power of government. Some basi-
cally start with the premise that all
regulation is bad, eliminating regula-
tion is always good, and the role of the
government needs to be challenged and
questioned regularly.
I guess there is some truth in those
statements, but there comes a moment
when we put things in perspective. Let
me tell you that the people who live in
the community of Willowbrook in Illi-
nois are putting things in perspective
when it comes to regulation.
Most people are not familiar with
Willowbrook. It is a village west of
Chicago with a population of 9,000. It is
in DuPage County, just west of the
downtown Chicago area. It is a middle-
income community with a lot of hard-
working families, and many of them
work hard to make sure their kids have
a better life than they do, as so many
American families do.
In the middle of this village at
Willowbrook is a business known as
Sterigenics. It is a sterilization plant
that uses a chemical, ethylene oxide,
to sterilize medical equipment, and
they do it in great volume.
On any given day, they will be steri-
lizing thousands of catheters that are
being used across the country and cer-
tainly in the Midwest for stents and for
investigative medicine—absolutely es-
sential to the health of those who are
being treated. They will approve over
1,000 surgical kits each day through
their sterilization process. They put
through the sterilization process such
things as knee replacements and
defibrillating devices that are im-
planted in people, so it is an essential
part of the medical picture in the Mid-
west at this moment, but it also turns
out that the chemical they are using,
ethylene oxide, is problematic, and
that is where the issue of government
regulation becomes front and center.
I didn’t know much about ethylene
oxide. I was a liberal arts lawyer, so I
skipped all of those hard chemistry
courses and tried to understand other
aspects of education. When it came to
ethylene oxide, I needed to be edu-
cated. Here is what we found.
We have learned that ethylene oxide
is a dangerous toxin. It is carcinogenic.
To put it in layman’s terms, it causes
cancer. We learned that ethylene oxide,
a chemical in the form of gas, is more
carcinogenic to humans than we pre-
viously thought, and this facility has
been releasing ethylene oxide into the
surrounding Willowbrook community
for 34 years.
Then we found out last August that
the Willowbrook community is an area
with higher cancer risk due to ethylene
oxide emissions from Sterigenics, and
we know that cancer-related ethylene
oxide exposure includes lymphoid can-
cer, breast cancer, stomach cancer, and
others.
After we were told that this com-
pany, Sterigenics, was doing every-
thing it could to reduce the emissions
of this carcinogenic toxic gas and that
it had installed pollution control meas-
ures, a local television station—CBS in
Chicago—revealed a few days ago
through interviews that this wasn’t the
case at all.
Ex-employees of Sterigenics came
forward and reported to this television
station that ethylene oxide was often
released directly into the air sur-
rounding the plant through open doors
and vents, and, instead of being di-
rected through pollution control meas-
ures, it was simply released.
According to these whistleblowers,
employees at Sterigenics were in-
structed to dump a toxic liquid byprod-
uct of ethylene oxide called ethylene
glycol directly into the water drains
that lead to the public sewer system.
Ethylene glycol is a chemical that is
used in antifreeze.
Then, in the middle of last week,
came a stunning revelation. We were
told by the Environmental Protection
Agency—an Agency that is often de-
rided here in Washington by many—
that the level of ethylene oxide meas-
ured outside of the Sterigenics facility
in Willowbrook, IL, was 350 times high-
er than what the EPA finds to be an ac-
ceptable risk and 50 times higher than
what was found in the surrounding
area.
Saying that the families—some of
whom have lived in Willowbrook for
decades—are concerned is a dramatic
understatement. Imagine for a mo-
ment, if you will, that you have been
raising a child in Willowbrook, that
your family has lived within sight of
this Sterigenics plant, and now you are
learning that they were releasing this
toxic gas into the air at a level of 350
times beyond what is deemed accept-
able for human exposure. To say that
the residents are concerned is a dra-
matic understatement. They are de-
manding action, and they want an-
swers.
For the record, this is not about
Democrats making noise. This is a bi-
partisan response. Dan Cronin is a
friend of mine. He is the chairman of
the county board at DuPage County
and a proud Republican. Both he and
Jim Durkin, who is the Republican
leader of the Illinois House, have come
out publicly with the strongest pos-
sible statements about this Sterigenics
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.008 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1183
February 12, 2019
emission and the danger it poses to
their community. The same thing is
true for the Democratic side of public
service in that county.
All of us have come out together,
Democrats and Republicans, decrying
this terrible situation, this dangerous
situation.
Members of this community should
not have to divert time away from
their lives and their loved ones to try
to research a chemical release and to
piece together answers. That is the re-
sponsibility of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, an Agency which,
sadly under this administration, has
been led by people who don’t have sym-
pathy for families before business.
They tend to lean toward the business
side before they look at the public
health aspect. That is unfortunate.
The Clean Air Act was one of the
first and most expansive environ-
mental laws ever created in the United
States, but, as with most laws, the
Clean Air Act is enforced by a Federal
Agency—in this case, the Environ-
mental Protection Agency—with broad
power and authority to act or to refuse
to act.
In this case, the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency has the authority to
use the new information that came off
its own monitors—new information
about the concentrations and danger of
ethylene oxide—to develop new rules
around the use of that chemical, in-
cluding when it is used for commercial
sterilization in plants like Sterigenics.
The EPA has the authority to do this.
The EPA should quickly promulgate
rules to establish safe limits for ethyl-
ene oxide used in manufacturing and
commercial sterilization. This would
protect not only the people in
Willowbrook but also the people in
Gurnee and Waukegan, IL, which also
have plants that use ethylene oxide—
plants that are located smack dab in
the middle of these populated commu-
nities.
Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA is
4 years overdue to begin the process of
promulgating new rules for ethylene
oxide commercial sterilization. Yet
when I called the Acting Adminis-
trator, Mr. Wheeler, at the EPA last
Friday, there didn’t seem to be any
sense of urgency to take action on this
issue beyond the further collection of
data over the next several weeks.
The EPA is under court order to re-
view ethylene oxide emission standards
for manufacturing by 2020, but there is
no official timeline for commercial
sterilization review—exactly what we
have asked of Mr. Wheeler and the EPA
over and over again.
Waiting 1 year is unacceptable for
the families who are affected by these
emissions. The health and safety of
these families and their children are at
stake in this decision by the EPA. That
is too long to ask someone to wait
when they sleep near this plant, work
near this plant, or take their kids to
school near this plant. That is why
today I join my colleague Senator
DUCKWORTH, who has been my trusted
ally in this effort, and my colleagues in
the House of Representatives, Con-
gressmen SCHNEIDER, FOSTER, CASTEN,
and LIPINSKI. We are introducing legis-
lation requiring the EPA to promul-
gate these rules within 180 days on the
use of ethylene oxide in this manner.
There is no excuse and no logical expla-
nation for delaying this kind of estab-
lishment of a rule.
But the EPA has to do a lot more
than simply start a 6-month process to-
ward promulgating a rule for ethylene
oxide. The EPA needs to treat this
matter like the public health crisis it
is. Today Senator DUCKWORTH and I are
calling on the EPA to immediately re-
quire Sterigenics to work with an inde-
pendent, third-party environmental en-
gineering firm to identify the source of
these emissions and reduce these emis-
sions coming from that facility. We
want a third party on the scene. We
don’t trust Sterigenics to do this by
themselves.
For their own credibility, they
should invite a third-party environ-
mental engineering firm to do this
work. If Sterigenics cares about this
community as much as they say they
do, they shouldn’t wait for the EPA to
issue an order for them to have this
sort of inspection and to make the re-
pairs and changes necessary to protect
the people in the surrounding commu-
nity. They should immediately hire an
independent, third-party expert to
identify the source of the emissions
and reduce them as quickly as hu-
manly possible.
The EPA should commit to contin-
uous monitoring around the facility in-
stead of ending the monitoring as
planned later this week. The EPA
should remain as a presence in this
community to make sure we restore
the faith to the people living nearby
that the situation is no longer dan-
gerous and threatening.
The EPA should commit to con-
tinuing to analyze and share the data
they collect with the public. No one
should have to live in fear that simply
breathing the air around their home,
their school, or their workplace will
give them cancer.
I am calling on the EPA to treat this
with the urgency it deserves. I am
ready to work with them, and I am
sure Senator DUCKWORTH is as well.
Let me close by saying that there are
many people who mock the EPA and
say that we would be better off if they
stopped harassing businesses like
Sterigenics. Tell that to the people
who live in Willowbrook. Tell that to
the people who live in Gurnee and Wau-
kegan. They are counting on us—those
in Washington who work with the En-
vironmental Protection Agency—to
keep this community safe for their
families. They are counting on us to
understand the concern they feel for
themselves and their children. They
are counting on us not to come with
bureaucratic delay but to come up with
a timely response, to put Sterigenics
on the spot when it comes to the emis-
sions that are coming off their plant,
and to put us as a government on the
spot to respond as quickly and as hu-
manly as possible.
It is not a matter of bureaucracy; it
is a matter of common sense. If this
were your family living next to this fa-
cility, would you want business as
usual, or would you want to make sure
the government responds in a timely
fashion? I think the answer is obvious.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I join
my colleagues on the Senate floor to
discuss William Barr, President
Trump’s nominee to serve as America’s
next Attorney General.
The Attorney General’s job is to de-
fend the U.S. Constitution against all
enemies, foreign or domestic, and to
stand up for the rights of all Ameri-
cans, but President Trump has a dif-
ferent view of the Attorney General’s
role. He has made it quite clear that he
is not interested in an Attorney Gen-
eral who is committed to working for
the American people. For President
Trump, only two criteria matter when
it comes to picking an Attorney Gen-
eral.
No. 1 is loyalty to President Trump.
William Barr easily checks this box.
Just look at the Mueller investigation.
As Special Counsel Mueller’s team in-
vestigates whether there are connec-
tions between Russia’s meddling in the
U.S. elections and the Trump campaign
and indicts more and more people with
close ties to the President, President
Trump has viciously attacked the in-
vestigation, calling it a ‘‘witch hunt.’’
Trump was not pleased that his first
pick for Attorney General, Jeff Ses-
sions, recused himself from the Mueller
investigation. He doesn’t want to make
the same mistake twice. In Barr, the
President has found someone he be-
lieves will put the President’s interests
above those of the country, and it is
not hard to see why.
Barr has taken extraordinary steps
to undermine the Mueller investiga-
tion, even voluntarily submitting an
unsolicited memo to the Justice De-
partment arguing that the special
counsel doesn’t have the power to in-
vestigate Trump for obstruction of jus-
tice. Man, that is quite the cover letter
for a job application when the job is
overseeing the very investigation you
don’t think should exist in the first
place.
Loyalty to President Trump—check.
The second criterion for President
Trump when picking an Attorney Gen-
eral or any nominee to serve in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.009 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1184 February 12, 2019
highest levels of the Federal Govern-
ment is whether the nominee will con-
tinue to tilt our government further
and further in favor of the powerful few
over everyone else.
Once again, Barr checks the box.
Barr’s record on women’s rights, crimi-
nal justice reform, immigration, and so
many more issues shows that he will
promote the interests of the powerful
few instead of defending the rights of
all.
Take women’s rights. Barr believes
Roe v. Wade—the Supreme Court case
establishing the right to abortion
care—was wrongly decided and should
be overturned. He also joined the ami-
cus brief arguing that employers
should be allowed to deny women ac-
cess to contraceptive care based on em-
ployers’ religious beliefs.
On criminal justice reform, Barr has
endorsed harmful policies that have
perpetuated America’s broken criminal
justice system. While serving as Attor-
ney General in the early 1990s, the Jus-
tice Department issued a report argu-
ing that the United States had an
under-incarceration problem—that we
put too few people in jail in this coun-
try—and Barr has personally made
many statements in line with that mis-
guided approach. He has argued that
children should be prosecuted as
adults. Despite the fact that Black peo-
ple are arrested, prosecuted, convicted,
and more harshly sentenced than their
White counterparts for exactly the
same crimes, Barr has denied that ra-
cial disparities exist in the criminal
justice system and has championed dis-
criminatory sentencing policies.
On immigration, Barr supported the
first and harshest iteration of Presi-
dent Trump’s unconstitutional and im-
moral Muslim ban. In his stint as At-
torney General in the 1990s, he advo-
cated for denying political asylum to
Haitian asylum seekers who happened
to be HIV positive.
On healthcare, Barr has argued that
the Affordable Care Act is unconstitu-
tional.
On LGBTQ equality, he has opposed
efforts to promote LGBTQ equality.
The list goes on and on. There is no
doubt that if confirmed, Barr would
continue the same broken system that
protects the wealthy and well-con-
nected while it leaves everyone else be-
hind.
The President doesn’t hide what he
wants from an Attorney General. He
wants someone who will put protecting
the President ahead of protecting our
Constitution and someone who will
help maintain America’s two very dif-
ferent justice systems—one that pro-
tects and coddles the wealthy and the
powerful and another harsh, unjust sys-
tem for everyone else.
Barr’s record shows that he is not the
Attorney General America desperately
needs—an Attorney General who will
stand up for the rule of law and for the
rights of all Americans. That is why I
will vote no on Barr’s nomination, and
I urge my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, as a
former chair of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, I have a pretty
good sense of how complicated it is to
pull together a legislative package of
public lands like the one this Senate is
about to pass.
So I would like to begin my com-
ments with a special shout-out to our
chair and committee leadership, Chair
MURKOWSKI, Senator CANTWELL, Sen-
ator MANCHIN, then-chairman and my
friend Congressman ROB BISHOP, and
now-Chairman GRIJALVA for helping
me negotiate the Oregon provisions in
this bill.
This morning, I have brought to the
floor of this Senate a copy of a wonder-
ful story. It is called ‘‘Fire at Eden’s
Gate.’’ It is an inspiring account of our
late Republican Governor, Tom
McCall. Nobody understood better than
Tom McCall the very basic idea that
protecting our public treasures should
not be a partisan proposition. In this
day and age, too often, it can feel like
the sense of common purpose around
protecting our public treasures is slip-
ping away, but I hope this bill is a bit
of a signal that it is coming back.
That is why this morning, I am dedi-
cating the Oregon provisions of this
bill to the memory of our late, great
Tom McCall. If Governor McCall were
here with us this morning, he would
say the Oregon provisions in this legis-
lation are all about protecting and en-
hancing Oregon’s unique and extraor-
dinary livability. At the heart of that
livability are our natural treasures and
the recreation economy that pumps
billions of dollars into Oregon, espe-
cially in our rural communities.
I am heading home this weekend. I
have townhall meetings in every one of
Oregon’s 36 counties. In those rural
areas, I am constantly seeing people
whose livelihood revolves around that
theory Tom McCall talked about—our
unique livability. We will see small
businesses, we will see guides who are
taking folks out into the back country,
and people who sell gear. The recre-
ation economy is a big economic multi-
plier, and it is all tied to what Tom
McCall talked about, which is pro-
tecting Oregon’s livability.
Tom McCall would be very pleased
with a number of aspects of this bill,
and I want to tick them off briefly this
morning. I believe Governor McCall
would be especially pleased that this
legislation does more to protect Orego-
nians from the growing threats of
wildfires that, in our part of the world,
are not your grandfather’s fires. They
are becoming infernos. We are seeing
fires leap our majestic Columbia River,
something that used to be unheard of
but is a reality today. This legislation,
in my view, makes a real difference in
reducing the threats of wildfires.
I want to talk about one provision
specifically, and that is what the bill
does for Crooked River Ranch in Cen-
tral Oregon. The Crooked River Ranch
provision I worked on with the com-
mittee leadership and that we got in
this bill is just common sense because
it reduces the risk of fire and also pre-
vents the increasing backlog that pre-
vents our land managers from clearing
out dead and dying hazardous fuels
near the homes of families.
Folks from this really small commu-
nity, the Crooked River Ranch, came
to my townhall meetings and told me
about their very understandable fear of
being engulfed in one of these infernos,
which is how I describe some of these
fires that just leap through Federal,
State, local, and private boundaries. I
want everybody at Crooked River
Ranch this morning to know the provi-
sions of this bill reduce the risk of
those huge fires, promote forest health,
and reduce the backlog that is so crit-
ical to preventing fires in the future. I
think the provisions in this bill show
all those folks from Crooked River
Ranch who came to our townhall meet-
ings that the Senate has listened to
them and responded to this very real
threat.
In addition, I can picture Tom
McCall this morning—this towering
figure—striding through the forests
that this bill designates as the first
new wilderness in Oregon in nearly a
decade. I am talking about the Devil’s
Staircase Wilderness area, which is
30,000 acres of rugged rainforest in our
beautiful Oregon Coast Range. This is
an untouched, pristine area, and it was
named after a series of cascading wa-
terfalls. It is an area that is so remote
and so steep that hikers—who come
from all over the country and literally
from around the globe—when they
come to Devil’s Staircase, they can
only gain access after a daylong trek
through miles of devil’s club, which is
a tall, spiky bush that has irritated
many a hiker. Few people have actu-
ally seen the waterfalls and the pri-
meval stands of old-growth trees that
surround it. In true Tom McCall fash-
ion, this bill ensures that these majes-
tic Douglas firs and tall trees on the
hike are there for future generations to
come, and that, in particular, is some-
thing Tom McCall personally talked to
me about.
I am going to mention volunteers in
the forests and a conversation I had
with Tom McCall not long before he
passed. He was always coming back,
trying to make sure those of us in posi-
tions to make policy were thinking
about future generations.
Nancy and I are older parents. We
have twins who are 11 and a little red-
head who is 6. Pictures are available on
my iPhone after my presentation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.011 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1185
February 12, 2019
Whenever I look at them, I think about
what Tom McCall said: You are making
policy for future generations. Now, be-
cause of the provisions here to protect
Devil’s Staircase and create this
unique, new wilderness area, it is going
to be there for those future genera-
tions, for Oregonians, Americans, and
literally visitors from around the
world.
While we are on the topic of remote
areas in my State, the lands bill we are
about to vote on protects yet another
very special place, the Chetco River in
Southwestern Oregon. The Chetco lives
within steep, mountainous terrain in
the heart of the Kalmiopsis Wilderness
area. This river—one of the wildest in
Oregon—drops almost 4,000 feet in ele-
vation from its headwaters in the
Rogue-Siskiyou National Forest before
it empties into the Pacific Ocean near
Brookings. This area would be particu-
larly beloved by Tom McCall because it
is a haven for treasured Oregon fish
species like salmon and steelhead.
There are so many pictures of Tom
McCall throwing a rod because he loved
to fish. Although it is a hike to get
there, it is an irresistible challenge to
even the most proficient anglers and
whitewater kayakers, but they will
find it the trip of a lifetime.
In addition to its recreation benefits
and wildlife-sustaining habitat, the
river also provides a clean and pristine
source of drinking water for the city of
Brookings and the town of Harbor on
the Oregon Coast.
For years, this extraordinarily pure
river, with crystal clear water, was
being threatened by those who simply
didn’t appreciate what it meant for
fishing and protecting the future, and
simply just looked at as an oppor-
tunity for mining. This legislation ends
the future potential for mineral exploi-
tation along the banks to the Chetco
once and for all.
I and other Members of the delega-
tion have been working for years to try
to make sure this was done perma-
nently. We wouldn’t have to lurch from
one kind of administrative fix to an-
other. Now we are embedding in black
letter law that we are ending the fu-
ture potential for mineral exploitation
along the banks of the Chetco River.
I have been working on this for my
entire time in public service rep-
resenting Oregon in the U.S. Senate,
and it is something that I—again, apro-
pos of that shout-out to Senator MUR-
KOWSKI, Senator CANTWELL, Chair
BISHOP, Chair GRIJALVA—am so appre-
ciative of.
The Chetco, by the way, is just one of
the many rivers the public lands bill
will protect and conserve in my home
State. The bill protects more than 250
miles of rivers and streams in Oregon
by adding them to the National Wild
and Scenic Rivers System.
As an Oregonian, I know it doesn’t
take an act of Congress to remind us
that rivers and streams are the back-
bone of Oregon’s recreation economy. I
spoke about it earlier, but this is some-
thing that, in my view, is missed in
much of the debate about public lands.
Recreation is an enormous economic
multiplier for our communities.
I see our new colleague in the Chair,
the Presiding Officer, and I know Flor-
ida cares deeply about treasures. So,
again, this is not a partisan concern.
This is all about looking down the
road. When I have a chance, as I will
this weekend, to be home for townhall
meetings, I am always stunned at how
far the reach is with respect to the
recreation economy.
I was home recently, and a young
man said he wanted to talk to me
about his kayak business, and so we
visited. He talked about how he had
tourists come, and he would take them
out in his kayak. Then he talked to me
about how there is a global market for
his kayaks.
I am the senior Democrat on the Sen-
ate Finance Committee with jurisdic-
tion over trade. He asked me about my
view on economics. One out of five jobs
in Oregon revolves around inter-
national trade. We like to make things
and grow things and add value to them
and ship them all over the world.
Well, the recreation economy creates
opportunities here at home, as that
young man took folks out in his
kayaks, but creates even more oppor-
tunities as the rest of the world bene-
fits from his kayaks as well.
In Oregon, we outdoor enthusiasts
understand that from every corner of
the United States we have an oppor-
tunity to show Oregon’s true natural
beauty as well as give people the expe-
rience of a lifetime seeing unparalleled
treasures. It is a big boost to a lot of
families for increasing their incomes.
Rivers and streams, such as those we
are going to protect with the new addi-
tions to the National Wild and Scenic
Rivers System, are a place for families
to picnic, for anglers to cast a fly rod
into some of the best fishing holes in
the country, and for whitewater rafters
to get an adrenaline rush while enjoy-
ing Oregon’s treasures.
I can tell you about Tom McCall be-
cause Tom McCall loved fishing almost
more than life itself. I am telling you,
he would look at these provisions, and
he would say that what this bill does to
protect those hundreds of miles of Wild
and Scenic Rivers is something that he
would call part of laying the future for
future generations but making sure
there is a lot that benefits the people
of my State and our country right now.
From Brookings to the Willamette
Valley, from the Chetco to the Molalla
River, this bill and the provisions we
were able to negotiate on rivers pro-
tects treasured fishing streams and
salmon habitats in every single corner
of Oregon. As I indicated, it is going to
be a real shot in the arm to rural com-
munities that are going to be able to
create world-class recreation destina-
tions and look at that recreation econ-
omy as an increasing opportunity to
build a more secure economic future.
Especially important are some of the
protections this bill gives to the Rogue
River in Southern Oregon. Fifty-one
years after President Johnson named
the Rogue to the original Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act, this bill adds just over
120 miles of important Rogue River
tributaries to the list. In doing so, this
bill further protects and safeguards the
mighty Rogue that the iconic western
author Zane Grey put on the map when
he wrote about the wilderness and re-
moteness of the river from his cabin at
Winkle Bar nearly one century ago.
With these designations, Oregon will
now have more miles of Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers than any other State in the
contiguous 48. Stay tuned, folks. Alas-
ka is the only State that has more
miles designated, but given that State
is about six times the size of my Or-
egon, I still think we are in a position
to catch up.
As the Governor who gave the public
access to all of Oregon’s beaches and
passed the Nation’s first bottle recy-
cling bill, Tom McCall valued those
who volunteered to keep Oregon so spe-
cial. He was a great champion of pro-
moting volunteers—again, something
that historically has been bipartisan.
I ran the legal aid program for older
people for a number of years—the Gray
Panthers, for about 7 years—and short-
ly before he passed, Tom McCall came
to see me. I had never been elected to
anything. I was stunned that such an
important person would come to see an
obscure fellow like myself. He was
talking about the elderly, and it really
led to a broader discussion of vol-
unteerism and people participating,
getting involved in their communities,
and because he was always working to
get people involved in cleaning up our
beaches, and then he passed the Na-
tion’s first bottle recycling bill, he al-
ways came back—as he did that day
when he came to see me—to talking
about how volunteerism is a big part of
what keeps Oregon so special.
In that spirit, this bill honors the
conservation legacy of two Oregonians
who spent their lives working to keep
Oregon special—Frank and Jeanne
Moore.
Frank Moore just embodies the Or-
egon way. He served in World War II,
and he returned to Oregon and settled
with Jeanne in North Umpqua, guiding
generations of anglers on the river.
Frank and Jeanne dedicated their lives
to preservation and conservation of the
Umpqua River.
For somebody who knows a thing or
two about casting a fly rod, Frank
Moore understood just how important
protecting the river is. I and my col-
leagues have felt it is long past time to
honor Frank and Jeanne’s legacy along
the river and in their community. That
is what this bill does.
I went and visited them not long
after we made a judgment that we
wanted to protect these Oregon icons
and their conservation legacy, and now
Frank and Jeanne Moore will be recog-
nized in this bill for protecting nearly
100,000 acres of Forest Service land
near the North Umpqua River through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.012 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1186 February 12, 2019
the inclusion of the Frank and Jeanne
Moore Salmon Sanctuary.
As anybody who works on public
lands legislation knows, sometimes it
is hard to find a balance in order to get
public lands legislation passed. Nobody
gets everything they want. Nobody
gets everything they believe they
ought to have. The question is, can you
bring people together.
I am going to close by way of saying
I have highlighted a number of provi-
sions that I am glad we got in here. It
was 10 years earlier when then-Presi-
dent Obama signed seven pieces of pub-
lic lands legislation that I was the lead
author of. So these opportunities don’t
come along all the time.
There are additional protections that
I wish were in this bill we will vote on
in a few hours. I particularly wanted
further protections for the Rogue and
the Molalla Rivers. I want to say to the
people I am so honored to represent at
home that as soon as we get this done,
we are going to go back and start
building support to get those protec-
tions through Congress in the future,
and I am optimistic that if we can have
the same kind of cooperation I have
been talking about this morning, we
can get them across the finish line.
This public lands bill may not be per-
fect, but it is a major accomplishment.
If you had told me, in a polarized polit-
ical climate like the one we have
today, that we could get a permanent
authorization for the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, I would have said,
‘‘No way. Can’t happen,’’ but now we
have real protection for, as it is called,
LWCF.
I am just going to close by men-
tioning, finally, my friend, our late Re-
publican Governor, Tom McCall. He
embodied—and you see it in this book,
‘‘Fire at Eden’s Gate: The Oregon
Story.’’ Tom McCall, a Republican, em-
bodied Oregon’s long and proud history
of conservation.
I want to close by saying the reason
I focused on Tom McCall this morning
is that he is part of a historical legacy.
Sometimes, over the last few years, I
have gotten the sense that that histor-
ical principle that protecting public
lands was not a partisan issue—some-
times I felt it was just slipping away.
Today, it seems to me, we are pushing
back. We are headed in the right direc-
tion, and protecting the special places
my home State is known for is some-
thing that gives me great pride. It is
also something you bring some humil-
ity to because Tom McCall was in a
league of his own with respect to pro-
tecting our treasures, and I am very
glad today, with the Oregon provisions
in this bill, we can build on Tom
McCall’s legacy. I am proud to have
been able to play a role in making sure
those provisions that help Oregon and
our country have been included in this
bill.
I yield the floor.
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12 noon,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT ACT—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
S. 47
Mr. DAINES. Madam President,
there is a lot that I love about my
State, Montana. It is where I grew up.
In fact, it is where—my great-great-
grandmother came from Minnesota and
homesteaded just north of Great Falls.
It is where my dad and my grandpa
taught me how to fly fish and to hunt.
It is where I got to attend college, in
fact, at Montana State University. It is
where I went to kindergarten through
high school—in Bozeman. In fact, it is
where I proposed to my sweet wife
Cindy on Hyalite Peak. It was about
71⁄2 miles up and 71⁄2 miles back. It was
about a 15-mile day that day we got en-
gaged, July 31, 1986. It is where Cindy
and I raised our four children. In fact,
speaking of children, it is more re-
cently where I walked my daughter
Annie down the aisle in Churchill, MT,
last October. Montana is a part of me.
It is home.
But what I am here to talk about
today is something that Montanans
like me love most about our State, and
that is our public lands, because in a
place like Montana, our public lands
are a way of life. Our public lands are
where Montanans make memories with
their families, their loved ones, and
their friends. Montana’s public lands
are where we take our kids on the
weekends. In fact, they are where we
spend at least a week every August off
the beaten path in the Beartooth Wil-
derness. They are where Cindy and I
will take a couple of dogs and take
along our kids now, as they have got-
ten older, if they have time. If not,
Cindy and I go off with our two dogs
and spend time in the high country. We
do that every summer.
Our public lands are where we grow
up learning to love the outdoors, and
they are where we still continue to
pass on that outdoor heritage to our
children and our grandchildren. Mon-
tana’s public lands play a major role in
what makes our State so great.
For anyone who has time and has
been fortunate enough to enjoy the Big
Sky Country’s public lands, I am sure
you would agree that we must continue
to cherish and protect those very lands
we love in every way possible. That is
why I am thrilled that this afternoon
the Senate is going to vote on a very
important, bipartisan public lands
package that includes some important
provisions for Montana, such as the
permanent reauthorization of the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and the
protection of Paradise Valley. In fact,
Paradise Valley is the doorstep to Yel-
lowstone National Park, our Nation’s
first national park. That would be
found in the Yellowstone Gateway Pro-
tection Act.
Growing up, I spent a lot of time in
that part of our State. I still do. I love
fly fishing on the Yellowstone River. In
fact, when I was in high school, I load-
ed up the station wagon—in fact, I
think probably the Griswolds’ station
wagon by today’s standards—and, with
a couple of my classmates from Boze-
man High—we had our homecoming
dinner before we went to the home-
coming dance there in Chico, MT.
This package also increases sports-
men’s access to public lands, which is
something that is so important to the
sports men and women of Montana.
This is a historic win for Montana. In
fact, it is one of the biggest conserva-
tion wins we have seen in arguably a
decade. It is what is going to help pre-
serve our access to our public lands.
These are the treasures of our great
State.
I very much look forward to casting
my vote this afternoon when we pass it
here in the Senate. This public lands
package is a product of years of effort.
Over 100 different pieces of legislation
have been put together from the local
level, grassroots moving its way up, to
our now having a chance to vote on
that right here for final passage in the
U.S. Senate. I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to do the same.
We are blessed to be home to so many
public lands in Montana, and we must
do all we can to protect them and en-
sure Montanans have access to these
public lands.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
RECOGNIZING IOWA
Ms. ERNST. Madam President, dur-
ing this Valentines Day week, folks
around the country are taking a mo-
ment to express their love to one an-
other. I have the great fortune to be
the junior Senator from the great
State of Iowa, so I wanted to take a
moment to share just how much I love
my home State of Iowa.
Iowa truly is where my heart is, from
its beautiful farmland to its streams
and rolling hills, Boyden to Brandon,
Fairview, Farragut, and Fort Madison,
and Keokuk to Rock Rapids and all the
places in between. Iowa has been so
very good to me, and it has so much to
offer. Nothing is better to me than
grabbing a slice of our hometown
Casey’s pizza and catching a sunset on
a beautiful Iowa day or on a snowy cold
one if you happen to be there right
now. I could spend hours mentioning
the things I love about Iowa, but I
wanted to take the time to mention
just a few.
I love how Iowans are politically en-
gaged. There is a reason why the Iowa
caucuses are the heartbeat of Amer-
ica’s political scene and why politi-
cians line up to eat corn dogs, fried
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.014 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1187
February 12, 2019
Oreos, and hot beef sundaes at our im-
pressive Iowa State Fair. Iowans voice
their opinions, they show up to vote,
and they hold us accountable. I appre-
ciate that spirit and that patriotism.
Interacting with fellow Iowans is one
of my favorite parts of the 99-county
tour that I do every year. I visit every
single county, every last one of Iowa’s
99.
I also want to show love to Iowa’s
working parents. Moms and dads across
Iowa are working hard every single day
to make ends meet, put food on their
tables, and provide their families with
a bright future. The love of their chil-
dren drives them, and they are doing a
great job. Their drive to succeed pushes
me to look for tools to help them bet-
ter achieve their goals. One area is the
issue of paid leave. It is an issue that is
very important to me because data
shows that newborns who have the
time to bond with their parents have
better health outcomes. As a conserv-
ative, I want to see an approach that is
voluntary and budget neutral and that
preserves jobs and is a win-win not
only for the economy but also employ-
ees. I think those policy solutions are
out there. I do. I have been working
with my colleague Senator MIKE LEE
on this, and we will be vocalizing these
initiatives in the coming days.
I love, love, love Iowa’s small towns
and our rural communities. Folks in
Iowa’s small towns, like my hometown
of Red Oak—we stick together. We
watch out for each other, and we help
each other out when tragedy strikes.
I am reminded of a time many years
ago when a farmer in one of our local
communities was injured when he was
out ranching with his cattle. He had
row crops that needed to be brought in
for the harvest. He was so severely in-
jured, he later succumbed to those in-
juries, and his widow was left with a
standing crop. It only took one phone
call to the local radio station to mobi-
lize tractors, wagons, and combines to
bring in the harvest for that family.
One phone call made a difference.
These small towns and small commu-
nities rely on each other. They don’t
rely on the Federal Government to
come in and solve their problems. We
take care of each other.
Our rural communities are home to
thousands of amazing and thriving
small businesses, our churches giving
hope to the world, baseball fields filled
with youngsters hoping to hit a home
run, families hunting and fishing to-
gether, sometimes three generations
all at once, motorcycles on long wind-
ing roads, and the local post office not
only knowing where you live but your
name and your kids’ names too. These
small towns are why I have spent a
great deal of time in Washington work-
ing to keep government accountable,
decrease job-killing regulations, and
ensure that small businesses keep rum-
bling. Rural communities truly are the
heart of this Nation and my great
State of Iowa.
I also love Iowa’s veterans. As a vet-
eran myself, I know how difficult it can
be to navigate the bureaucracy and
other hurdles of the VA system. Unfor-
tunately, we haven’t always given our
veterans the best care we could, and it
has been my mission to change that.
Speaking of mission, late last year
we passed the VA MISSION Act to help
put veterans in the driving seat when
it comes to their own care. We still
have more to do in that area, particu-
larly in terms of helping those with
PTSD and other mental health con-
cerns and reducing suicide rates and
veteran homelessness. These folks have
sacrificed so much for our country. We
owe them a debt of gratitude, and we
owe it to them to ensure they are re-
ceiving the highest possible care.
As I mentioned, I could go on for
hours talking about the things I love
about Iowa. I only had a few minutes
with you today on the floor, but I
wanted to express my gratitude to such
a great State.
Thank you, Iowans, for truly being
the best people on Earth to represent
and to Iowa for being the greatest
place to call home. My heart is with
you.
Happy Valentine’s Day.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNIZING MAINE
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
first want to commend the Senator
from Iowa for suggesting that we take
the occasion of Valentine’s week to
come to the Senate floor and talk a bit
about our home States. Of course, each
of us is convinced that we represent
the best State in the Union, but in my
case it happens to be true.
Valentine’s Day is celebrated around
the world with flowers, candy, and ro-
mance. It is also a time to reflect upon
the places and the people we love. To
me, this is an occasion to celebrate the
State in which I was born, raised, and
live—the great State of Maine.
People who know Maine share my
love for its spectacular scenery—the
rolling hills of Aroostook County, the
rocky coast and the many harbors, the
beautiful western mountains, the quiet
forests, the beautiful rivers, and the
pristine lakes. The boundless rec-
reational opportunities our outdoors
offer lifts our hearts, and the abundant
wildlife inspires us.
I love Maine’s food. From our clean
ocean comes the best lobster in the
world, and from our fertile soil grows
the potatoes and wild blueberries that
are unmatched. From gourmet mustard
from Eastport to craft beer throughout
the State, Maine artisans are finding
new ways to delight our taste buds.
There simply is no better place to
enjoy a wonderful meal than the great
restaurants in the State of Maine. Add
to that our wonderful museums, Acadia
National Park, State parks, and art
galleries, and it is easy to see why
more than 1 million tourists come to
our State each year.
Most of all, I love the people of the
State of Maine. They are hard-working,
self-reliant, and compassionate. They
revere tradition and yet are so innova-
tive. In good times, they are grateful.
In difficult times, they are resilient.
They serve their communities and
their country, caring for their neigh-
bors and their neighborhoods. They are
always ready to lend a helping hand.
I love Maine’s sense of community.
Our annual town meetings each spring
are evidence of the willingness of
Mainers to come together to chart
their own course.
This community spirit will be on dis-
play next week with our high school
basketball tournaments, where ath-
letes from cities and towns all over the
State gather in Bangor, Augusta, and
Portland for spirited competition and
sportsmanship.
How well I remember the excitement
of traveling from Caribou to Bangor 50
years ago, when I was a sophomore in
high school, to watch our high school
team win the coveted gold ball on a
half-court buzzer shot—the shot that
was heard around the State. It was the
most exciting sports event I have ever
attended. These tournaments are
among the great traditions of our
State, as are the many festivals and
fairs that occur throughout the sum-
mer months and the fall.
It is such an honor to represent the
people of Maine in the U.S. Senate.
Maine is a State of entrepreneurs, and
I enjoy working for policies that enable
our small businesses to start up, grow,
and prosper. Most importantly, they
create the majority of jobs in our
State.
Maine is a State of wise senior citi-
zens—the oldest State in the Nation by
average age. Developing the policies
that will allow our seniors to age in
their own communities and to live in
security and health is among my top
priorities.
Maine is a State with one of the
highest percentages of veterans per
capita in the entire country. Mainers
have always answered the call to serve
our Nation. We must ensure that the
brave men and women who defend our
freedom receive the services and the
respect they deserve. At Bath Iron
Works, home to the world’s best ship-
builders, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard
in Kittery, Saco Defense, Pratt & Whit-
ney, and other companies that con-
tribute to our national defense, it is
the skilled Maine workers who help to
keep America strong, and I am so
proud of their vital contributions.
The poet Robert Frost wrote, ‘‘We
love the things we love for what they
are.’’ I love the State of Maine for what
it is and its people for who they are,
and I wish them all a very happy Val-
entine’s Day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.016 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1188 February 12, 2019
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
rise today to oppose the nomination of
William Barr to be the Attorney Gen-
eral, a nomination that the Senate will
be taking up later today.
I have a number of concerns about
the nominee on policy grounds. I echo
what my colleagues on the Judiciary
Committee have said about Mr. Barr’s
troubling record on important issues
affecting Americans’ constitutional
freedoms. He has advocated for harsh,
mandatory minimum sentences, as well
as the President’s Muslim ban.
I also have serious concerns about his
past statements about LGBTQ equality
and the role of government in women’s
reproductive healthcare. As one telling
example, he testified in his 1991 con-
firmation hearing that Roe v. Wade
was wrongly decided and should be
overruled.
On all of these issues, this nominee, I
believe, is out of step with the views of
the vast majority of the American pub-
lic, but for me, this nomination and my
objection to this nomination is not
simply an objection based on policy
grounds, nor is it a question of Mr.
Barr’s experience. As a former Attor-
ney General, Mr. Barr has long been
well respected within the legal commu-
nity, but, frankly, the nominee for our
Nation’s highest law enforcement posi-
tion must be measured by more than
his resume. Instead, for me, particu-
larly at this moment in time, this is a
question of Mr. Barr’s fidelity to our
Constitution. I find Mr. Barr’s actions
in the months leading up to his nomi-
nation to be deeply disturbing. As a re-
sult, I have serious doubts about this
nominee’s independence and willing-
ness to stand up for rule of law.
Last June, Mr. Barr wrote a secret,
unsolicited memo attacking Special
Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation
into potential obstruction of justice by
the President. Mr. Barr then took this
unsolicited memo and passed it on to
administration officials. We all know
what happened afterward.
In November, President Donald
Trump fired Attorney General Jeff Ses-
sions after months of public abuse over
Attorney General Sessions’ unwilling-
ness to rein in or kneecap the Mueller
investigation. For a temporary re-
placement, he chose Matt Whitaker,
whom we have seen recently in his tes-
timony over on the House side and
whose primary qualification to be Act-
ing Attorney General appears to have
been an op-ed he wrote decrying the
scope of the Mueller probe.
With Mr. Barr’s nomination, it has
become again clear—and we heard it
again in some of the President’s com-
ments last night in El Paso—that the
President’s major concern in choosing
a new Attorney General will be to
choose someone who will shield him
from the special counsel’s investiga-
tion. To me, Mr. Barr’s unsolicited
memo looks much like a job applica-
tion to try to appeal to the President
on those qualifications. The President
has reportedly dangled the possibility
of pardoning potential witnesses in this
special counsel’s investigation. In Mr.
Barr, the President has a nominee who
has been outspoken about his expan-
sive views of the appropriate use of
pardon powers.
Let’s be very clear. Any attempt by
this President to pardon himself, his
family, or key witnesses in the Mueller
or the Southern District of New York
investigation would represent an abuse
of power that would require a response
by Congress. Special Counsel Mueller’s
investigation, as we already have seen
from the record, has led to numerous
indictments and convictions—convic-
tions that even include the President’s
own campaign chairman from the 2016
campaign.
While we have no idea when the
Mueller investigation will finish, we
must make sure that the Mueller in-
vestigation remains free from political
interference until it gets to the truth.
Then, we need to ensure that its find-
ings must be released to Congress and
the American public. Under our con-
stitutional system, no one is above the
law, not even the President. We need
an Attorney General willing to vigor-
ously defend that principle.
Consequently, I will oppose the nomi-
nation of Mr. Barr and urge my col-
leagues to consider the same.
Thank you, Madam President.
I yield the floor.
I suggested absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, this
Friday is our deadline to fund 25 per-
cent of the Federal Government, which
remains unfunded as a result of the
short-term continuing resolution that
was passed to keep it open until Feb-
ruary 15, pending negotiations to deal
with border security measures.
During the last shutdown, for 35
days, we know that 800,000 Federal
workers were not paid, including some
36,000 Texans. During that time, we
heard about families who could not af-
ford to buy the necessities of life,
whether they be medicines or providing
the funding to run the heat in their
homes and to keep their utility bills
low—families who went from donating
food at food banks to then being a re-
cipient of food at those food banks.
Even though this all began as a bat-
tle over border security, the impact
was much bigger. Employees from the
Coast Guard, the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration—the folks in the
blue shirts who usher us through secu-
rity at airports—NASA, or the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, the Environmental Protection
Agency, the IRS, and a whole host of
other Federal Agencies were caught up
in the crosshairs of our disagreements
here and forced to deal with financial
uncertainty for weeks on end.
I personally believe that we were
sent here to govern, not to preside over
shutdowns, and that we make tough de-
cisions every day here by negotiation
and compromise. That is the way the
Constitution contemplates how the leg-
islative branch will act.
None of us are dictators. None of us
can dictate 100 percent of what we
want on any given occasion, so that
means we have to negotiate. We have
to compromise, and obviously a shut-
down represents a failure to com-
promise.
I have to say that compromise and
negotiation require good faith. They
require a desire on the part of all par-
ties to actually solve a problem, not to
play ‘‘gotcha’’ and point score when it
comes to politics.
Unfortunately, this last shutdown
was a result of some outlandish posi-
tions taken by the Speaker of the
House, Ms. PELOSI, and the Democratic
leader here in the Senate, Mr. SCHU-
MER. They said, for example, ‘‘Let’s be
crystal clear. There will be no addi-
tional appropriations to pay for the
border wall. It is done.’’ That was the
Democratic leader Senator SCHUMER.
Then Ms. PELOSI said, ‘‘A wall, in my
view, is an immorality.’’ She said it is
immoral.
I agree with President Trump when
he said what is immoral is allowing the
poison that is imported across our bor-
ders from the South, which has con-
tributed to the 70,000 drug overdose
deaths we saw last year as monitored
and reported by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention; that is im-
moral—not doing anything about that,
not dealing with the human traf-
ficking, the sex slavery, and the invol-
untary servitude of young women and
children. That is immoral.
I realize we have gotten caught up in
this silly game of semantics. Some peo-
ple call a wall a fence, and others call
a fence a wall. But we all know what
we are talking about are physical bar-
riers that form a necessary part of bor-
der security.
Again, I go back to the experts. I
come from a border State with 1,200
miles of common border with Mexico. I
look to the Border Patrol and the De-
partment of Homeland Security to an-
swer this most basic question. My
question to them is this: What do you
need in order to accomplish the mis-
sion we have asked you to accomplish?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.018 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1189
February 12, 2019
What the experts have always told
me is that they need a combination of
three things. They need physical bar-
riers in some locations that are hard to
control. They need technology to scan
the trucks and the cars that come over
the ports of entry; they need ground
sensors and radar in the places between
the ports of entry. Then they need the
boots on the ground; they need the Bor-
der Patrol, the law enforcement
agents, in order to detain people who
come across the border.
I really find this debate over this one
component of border security, this
physical barrier component, surreal. It
really is hard work to try to avoid a so-
lution where the solution is staring
you right in the face, where we know
that if people of good will were willing
to talk and to work through them, we
could solve these problems, just as we
do so many other problems every day.
I was glad to learn that last night the
negotiators on the conference com-
mittee reached at least an agreement
in principle to fund the remaining De-
partments and Agencies of the Federal
Government. I know we are all eager to
see the final details of the agreement
and to learn exactly what was in-
cluded, and I understand, based on re-
ports we heard at lunch, it will prob-
ably be tomorrow before we can see the
language and make sure the language
reflects what we see reported in the
press.
As I said, again, I hope this agree-
ment takes into account what we have
reportedly heard from the experts—
that smart border security is a com-
bination of barriers, technology, and
personnel.
I also hope it includes funding for our
ports of entry to promote the legal
movement of goods and people across
the border without compromising secu-
rity.
I think we all know that a lot of the
high-end drugs—what I am talking
about are heroin, fentanyl, meth-
amphetamine, and the like—that come
across the ports of entry are secreted
within compartments in trucks and
cars, and what we need is to have the
scanning devices to be able to locate
those places within those vehicles so
that we can find those drugs and hold
the people smuggling them account-
able. But that means that at our ports
of entry we are going to need the per-
sonnel and the technology in order to
do that. So I hope the negotiators on
the conference committee have pro-
vided adequate funds for that, in addi-
tion to the physical barrier.
For my constituents in Texas, a se-
cure border is not just a political talk-
ing point, it is a vital part of their
lives. Our communities depend on Cus-
toms and Border Protection to stop
both dangerous people and goods from
crossing illegally. But they also depend
on Customs and Border Protection to
facilitate legitimate trade and travel,
which fuels our economy. About $300
billion of goods were transported both
to and from Texas ports of entry along
the border last year alone. So I hope
this agreement includes funding to
strengthen our border and to protect
our people.
I want to thank all of our colleagues
who have been engaged in these nego-
tiations for their continued commit-
ment to finding a solution that every-
body can support, and I plan to review
the text as soon as possible.
I happened to come back from El
Paso last night with President Trump,
who was reviewing the bare bones of
this proposal, and he has not yet said
whether he will sign it, but I want to
make a couple of points.
First of all, if this agreement does, as
I believe it is reported to do, provide
for 55 miles of additional physical bar-
riers along the border, then the Presi-
dent has won, and Ms. PELOSI has lost
because she said not one penny more—
I am sorry, that was Senator SCHU-
MER—for border walls or border bar-
riers. Ms. PELOSI called them immoral.
But if Democrats on the negotiating
committee have now agreed to 55 miles
of additional physical barriers, it
sounds to me as though they are not in
the same place Ms. PELOSI is. I don’t
say that to try to blow up the deal be-
cause, frankly, I believe a shutdown
would be a mistake. But what I would
encourage the President to do is to
count his victory here and then to
build on that. He has additional au-
thorities, particularly under the De-
fense authorization bill, on a non-
emergency basis, to reprogram money
that has been appropriated already for
the Department of Defense.
There are other areas that Congress
has already approved the President’s
reprogramming money through pre-
viously passed legislation, so I would
encourage the President to bank the
win and then to build on that and to do
what is necessary to protect our coun-
try and to secure our border.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, this week the Senate will vote on
the nomination of William Barr to
serve as Attorney General of the
United States.
It is hard for me to imagine a better
qualified person for that job. It is par-
ticularly impressive to me that some 27
years after he last held the job as At-
torney General, he would be willing to
step forward and accept the respon-
sibilities of that job once again. But
that is exactly what he has done.
More than two decades ago, he was
nominated and unanimously confirmed
for three incredibly important posi-
tions at the Department of Justice,
culminating in the very position he is
being considered for right now.
Since he first held the job of Attor-
ney General, times have changed—
something he acknowledged during his
hearing. But his steadfast commitment
to the rule of law has not shifted. That
is undoubtedly why Mr. Barr has re-
ceived the endorsement of former At-
torneys General, Department of Jus-
tice alumni, State attorneys general,
and several important law enforcement
groups.
He has also received support from
some of the toughest critics in Wash-
ington: the editorial boards of some of
the newspapers. Following his hearing,
the USA Today editorial board wrote a
piece called ‘‘Confirm William Barr as
attorney general,’’ and that says it all,
although they went on to say:
There are times for Democrats to confront
President Trump and times not to. The nom-
ination of William Barr to be attorney gen-
eral, pending before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, is an example of the latter.
In that piece, the editorial board dis-
cussed something that was a major
focus during Mr. Barr’s hearing—the
Mueller investigation. Our Democratic
colleagues were eager to hear him say
that he would allow the special counsel
to continue his investigation without
intervention, which he did repeatedly.
At one point, Mr. Barr said: ‘‘I be-
lieve it is in the best interest of every-
one—the President, the Congress, and,
most importantly, the American peo-
ple—that this matter be resolved by al-
lowing the special counsel to complete
his work.’’ I agree with that, and I
agree with the conclusion of USA To-
day’s editorial board that the sooner he
is on the job the better.
We saw, I would note, pieces from the
Wall Street Journal, the Los Angeles
Times, and the New York Daily News
to the same effect. Even the Wash-
ington Post believes that Democrats
should vote for William Barr. They
wrote that he ‘‘came across as a highly
qualified person and committed to the
traditions, procedures and mores of the
Justice Department.’’
Good for them. The headline of that
editorial was ‘‘Confirm William Barr—
and hold him to his pledge of independ-
ence.’’
I have said before, and I will say it
again, that being Attorney General is
probably the most difficult job of the
President’s Cabinet because not only
are you the chief law enforcement offi-
cer for the country, you are really a
political appointee of the President.
But I am satisfied that Mr. Barr can
balance those two responsibilities in a
responsible and ethical sort of way. I
believe he will bring the same inde-
pendent voice to the DOJ that he did
more than two decades ago and will
continue his longstanding reputation
of being an unwavering defender of the
rule of law.
I hope our colleagues on the other
side of the aisle will judge this nomi-
nee based on his qualifications, not on
the person who nominated him.
It has been common, it seems these
days, that anyone or anything that
President Trump is for, our Democratic
colleagues reflexively oppose without
thinking about the issue at hand or the
qualifications, in this case, of the
nominee.
I hope, rather than a reflexive, par-
tisan rejection of President Trump’s
nominee to be Attorney General, that
our colleagues will give him the fair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.020 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1190 February 12, 2019
consideration that he is due and will
provide, as the Constitution provides,
advice and consent on this nomination,
and join me in consenting to this nomi-
nation, and confirm William Barr as
the next Attorney General of the
United States.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
Republicans have kept our commit-
ment the past 2 years to get Americans
back to work. We provided much need-
ed tax relief and regulatory relief for
people all across the country. We
reined in Washington, we unleashed job
creators, and now we are producing
more jobs than can be filled. So Amer-
ica is back in business. The economy is
booming. Economic growth has accel-
erated.
In just 2 years, we have created 5 mil-
lion jobs in this country—3 million jobs
since we passed tax relief last year—
and 600,000 of these new jobs are in
manufacturing. Last month alone, we
added a phenomenal 300,000 new jobs.
Here is more welcomed news. Ameri-
cans are seeing bigger paychecks.
Wages are up 3 percent—the highest
jump in over a decade. Our unemploy-
ment rate is at a 50-year low. Clearly,
our country is headed in the right di-
rection. Pro-growth Republican poli-
cies have improved Americans’ lives.
Democrats, on the other hand, want
to take us in the opposite direction.
Just last week, Democrats released
their Green New Deal. It is a Big Gov-
ernment takeover of the economy,
masked as an environmental policy.
The proposal isn’t green, and it is not
new. It is not a green deal. It is a raw
deal. If implemented, this plan would
put millions of people out of work and
it would cost our Nation tens of tril-
lions of dollars.
The plan, to me, is really less about
addressing climate change and more
about putting government in control of
every facet of our lives. Even if it were
affordable—and it is not—the proposal
is so far outside America’s mainstream
that it is scary. The proposal reads like
an absurd socialist manifesto. They
call for a ‘‘national mobilization’’ to
‘‘transform every sector of our econ-
omy and society’’ and to do it by the
year 2030. In just 10 years, Washington
would create a command-and-control
economy to eliminate choice in how we
live. Washington would tell us how to
travel, what our houses should look
like, and what food is on our grocery
store shelves.
That is just a starting point. The
plan includes a laundry list of govern-
ment giveaways: guaranteed housing,
college, food, healthcare, and a job.
Even people who refuse to work, ac-
cording to the one press, would be
guaranteed a paycheck.
In its lunacy, the Green New Deal
embodies Democrats’ hard-left turn.
Under the plan, the Nation’s energy
system would undergo a Big Govern-
ment takeover. Through heavy-handed
mandates, we would all be forced to
meet all our power needs from costly
zero-carbon and renewable sources—all
of it. The Green New Deal eliminates
energy sources that currently provide
power to roughly three out of every
five homes in America and to busi-
nesses as well. It mandates the use of
expensive energy sources that realisti-
cally can’t meet our country’s needs.
It would mean the end of the internal
combustion engine in cars, in boats,
and in planes. The plan would force
every driver in America to purchase an
electric vehicle or rely on public trans-
portation.
It would also mean the end of both
airplanes and ships. American-made
goods could no longer be exported
around the world. There would be no
way to send them. Americans living on
islands, from Puerto Rico to Hawaii,
would be stranded, and it would put a
stop to Americans taking vacations
abroad.
An extensive and expensive national
high-speed rail system would have to
replace air travel. That is what they
are calling for—an expensive and ex-
tensive national high-speed rail system
to replace air travel.
The State of California is currently
attempting to build just one of these
rail lines at a cost of $89 million for
every planned mile of track—so $89
million for every planned mile of
track.
So what happened today? What hap-
pened just a few hours ago in Cali-
fornia? California Governor Gavin
Newsom said he is ending the State’s
effort to build a high-speed rail line be-
tween San Francisco and Los Angeles.
That is what the Green New Deal says
they are going to do. Yet the Governor
today says they are going to dis-
continue the plans.
Newsom said in his state of the State
address today that it ‘‘would cost too
much and take too long.’’ Well, that
looks like the entire Democrats’ Green
New Deal. He says it ‘‘would cost too
much and take too long’’ to build the
line long championed by his prede-
cessor, Jerry Brown. The latest esti-
mates pin the cost at $77 billion and
completion in 2033.
That is where we are today.
There is another victim of the Green
New Deal. It is ice cream. Livestock
would be banned. Say goodbye to dairy,
beef, and family farms and ranches.
American favorites like cheeseburgers
and milkshakes would become a thing
of the past. Millions of American work-
ers will lose their jobs. Living this
‘‘green dream’’ is actually a nightmare.
Just the energy portion of this plan
alone would cost at least $5.7 trillion,
and it is feasibly impossible. The gov-
ernment handouts, healthcare, and
other giveaways will cost tens of tril-
lions more. This Green Deal will bank-
rupt the country.
The guaranteed-job program alone
would cost an estimated hundreds of
billions of dollars each and every year.
Taxes will have to go through the roof,
as will energy prices. This is just the
tip of the iceberg. This green scheme
would undermine our entire way of life.
The plan would impose a burdensome
mandate on homeowners. Every build-
ing nationwide will have to be over-
hauled—every one. Home heating and
electric costs will surge. One estimate
said that the average energy bill would
rise by as much as $3,800 per year per
home.
In reality, the only thing green about
the Green New Deal is the cash it will
cost American families. This is simply
a Washington power play posing as a
clean energy plan.
These are some of the same socialist
goals we have seen from the far left
that they have been pushing for dec-
ades. It has failed everywhere it has
been tried, from Venezuela to the
former Soviet Union. The path to
cleaner energy lies in supporting pri-
vate innovation, not government regu-
lation.
American energy-related carbon di-
oxide emissions have steadily fallen in
recent years. The United States is cur-
rently on pace to reduce them by 17
percent below 2005 levels, and we are
going to do it by the year 2025. So we
have been doing it in the United
States. We have been lowering emis-
sions. We are leading the world in low-
ering our carbon emissions over the
past decade. A Washington takeover of
the energy sector is going to interfere
with that progress.
Congress should support affordable
baseline energy solutions that will ac-
tually reduce emissions and grow our
economy. Cutting-edge technologies—
including nuclear power, carbon cap-
ture, and carbon utilization—hold
enormous promise. Nuclear power cur-
rently provides about 60 percent of
America’s emission-free energy. Some
supporters of the Green New Deal have
even talked about banning nuclear
power.
Republicans support a commonsense
approach to addressing climate change.
We are interested in solutions, not so-
cialism. We need to make American en-
ergy as clean as we can, as fast as we
can, and we can do it without raising
costs on the American public.
The Democrats’ plan is a hard left
turn that will drive our economy off a
cliff. It is the first big step on that
dark path to socialism. Simply put, the
green deal is a raw deal for the Amer-
ican public.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.021 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1191
February 12, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING FRANK ROBINSON
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, last
week America lost Frank Robinson, a
baseball legend and a pioneer for civil
rights. Frank Robinson spent much of
his career in Ohio. He starred first for
the Cincinnati Reds All-Star World Se-
ries championship team. They built a
team around him in Cincinnati with
Vada Pinson and others. Near the end
of his career, he went to Cleveland, and
he managed for the Cleveland Indians.
He was a pioneer for change in base-
ball.
Larry Doby, whom we honored last
year with a Congressional Medal, was
the first African-American player in
the American League. He played for
Cleveland. He came up only several
weeks after Jackie Robinson broke the
color line.
Then in 1974, Frank Robinson became
the Major League’s first African-Amer-
ican manager. I was at the game when
he—that first game he managed. He hit
a home run his first time at bat. He
was the DH for the Indians. He was
what is called a player-manager.
In the days since his passing, we have
heard people say that Frank Robinson
was one of the most underappreciated
legends of the game, but the same
could also be said of his importance to
our country. There are few players in
baseball who have accomplished any-
thing close—on the field or off the
field—to what Frank Robinson did. He
is the only person to have won a league
MVP in both the American and Na-
tional Leagues—with the National
League for the Reds and with the
American League for the Orioles. He
was Rookie of the Year with the Reds.
He won two World Series champion-
ships. He was the World Series’ most
valuable player. He won the Triple
Crown with the Orioles. He was a Gold
Glove winner. He was a 14-time all-
star. He hit 600 career home runs.
The championships, the awards, and
the records alone don’t define who
Frank Robinson was or what his suc-
cess meant to so many people. The
Reds signed him right out of high
school. He still strove for more. He
took courses at Cincinnati’s Xavier
University at the beginning of his
rookie season. He knew that the
courses wouldn’t count toward any de-
gree; yet he persevered. He was traded
to the Orioles in 1966. He witnessed red-
lining and segregation that prevented
him and his wife from finding housing.
Here was one of the best players in the
Major Leagues, and he couldn’t find
housing in Baltimore in the 1960s. Here
was the city’s star baseball player, but
because of our country’s racist housing
policies, realtors wouldn’t sell him a
home.
Parenthetically, I would also point
out that today some of those racist
housing policies continue and that we
have an administration and housing
regulators who simply seem too busy
to want to enforce fair housing laws.
My wife and I live in ZIP Code 44105 in
Cleveland, OH. Our ZIP Code had more
foreclosures in the first half of 2007
than any other ZIP Code in the United
States. And don’t think that some of
these housing problems and segregated
housing in this country aren’t because
of some of the actions of this adminis-
tration and prior to that.
Frank Robinson didn’t stay silent. He
joined the NAACP and became a voice
for the civil rights movement. As I
said, he was traded to the Cleveland In-
dians in 1974. The Indians made him
manager. As I said, he was the first Af-
rican-American manager in the history
of Major League Baseball. It took ex-
actly 27 years after Jackie Robinson
broke the color line for the owners of
Major League Baseball to actually hire
a Black manager—27 years.
That accomplishment meant so much
to so many. He proved what never
should have been in question—that Af-
rican Americans belong not just on the
field but that they are leaders, just
like any other American. That accom-
plishment resonated not only among
baseball fans but, in fact, in schools
and offices around the country. He was
a symbol to so many young Americans
that these roles of authority and lead-
ership aren’t just roles that only cer-
tain kids whose skin was a certain
color could dream of; these dreams are
for everyone. It was a powerful mes-
sage that paved the way for so many
great leaders on and off the baseball
field.
The Cleveland Indians unveiled a
statue of Frank Robinson 2 years ago
in my hometown of Cleveland at Pro-
gressive Field. Mr. Robinson spoke at
the unveiling. He talked about how far
we have come, and then he said:
There are people out there in the minor
leagues and at the big-league level as coach-
es, and they have earned their way up. But
they just don’t seem to be able to break that
barrier as often. All I can tell them—don’t
give up. Do not give up.
We still don’t see nearly as many Af-
rican-American managers as there
should be.
As we celebrate Black History
Month, we as a nation need to heed
Frank Robinson’s words. We cannot
give up on his dream of breaking down
the institutional barriers that are set
up for people of color in baseball and
throughout our society. We don’t just
honor Black trailblazers; we need to
continue our country’s unfinished
work.
Hard work isn’t paying off for far too
many people in this country. Hard
work doesn’t pay off for far too many
workers, and women and people of
color have even greater challenges. It
is even harder to get ahead no matter
how hard they work. We know that this
country doesn’t respect work, it
doesn’t respect the dignity of work,
and it doesn’t honor work. As I said, we
know that as much as this country
doesn’t compensate people for the work
they do, it is, again, even harder for
women and people of color. Let’s honor
Frank Robinson’s memory. Let’s honor
the legacy of Black Americans not just
with words but with actions to change
that.
PARKLAND HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING
Madam President, this Thursday will
mark 1 year since 17 Americans were
tragically and brutally murdered at
Parkland High School. Seventeen fami-
lies lost daughters, sons, brothers, and
sisters, 17 more were wounded, and
hundreds of students and teachers
joined the ranks of survivors of mass
shootings.
Those injured and those families will
never be the same. One of the country’s
greatest strengths is that out of the
greatest tragedies, Americans channel
their outreach in grief into action.
The young people at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School
launched an incredible movement for
change in this country. These were
high school students, many not even
old enough to vote, dealing with pain
that most of us can’t imagine. They
were able to do what so many, shall I
say, grown politicians have been un-
able or unwilling to do—something
that so many Members in this body are
afraid or unwilling to do.
These kids stood up to the gun
lobby—if only we saw that kind of
courage among politicians who take
money from the gun lobby year after
year after year. These kids stood up to
the gun lobby. They organized and
forced their government to listen.
A month after that awful day, more
than a million Americans joined the
March for Our Lives and marches for
our lives across the country. They had
a pretty simple demand: The people
who represent them should protect
them from gun violence.
This body, again, did virtually noth-
ing. They demand that we stop ignor-
ing the millions of Americans who
want reasonable gun safety measures.
They demand that we stop doing the
bidding of special interest gun lobby-
ists.
We can’t say we are doing what it
takes to keep our country safe until we
are finally willing to pass common-
sense laws to protect all Americans
from gun violence. Many of us have
tried.
I supported the original Federal as-
sault weapons ban in 1994. I joined
many of my colleagues to try to renew
it after the Sandy Hook grade school
massacre. Weapons of war don’t belong
on our streets. They certainly don’t be-
long in our classrooms.
We tried to pass legislation to close
loopholes in our background check sys-
tem. After the tragedy at the Pulse
nightclub in Florida, we tried to pass
legislation to prevent people on the
terrorist watch list from buying guns.
Imagine this, if you are on the ter-
rorist watch list and you go up to the
John Glenn Airport in Columbus, OH,
you can’t get on a plane, but you can
buy an assault weapon. You can’t get
on a plane if you are on a terrorist
watch list. That is Federal law. But be-
cause of the power of the gun lobby in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.023 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1192 February 12, 2019
this body and in this room, you can
buy an assault weapon.
That is why the gun lobby, again,
stood in the way. It is why the move-
ment that these students launched
matters. They showed the country that
the gun lobby may have the money,
but we have energy on our side, and we
have voters on our side.
Look what happened last fall. So
many new voters—many of them
young, many of them women—were
elected to this Congress promising, fi-
nally—finally—to stand up to the gun
lobby and finally to say no to the Na-
tional Rifle Association.
Creating change is never easy. It
often requires going up against power-
ful special interests, but from the
Women’s March to the airport rallies,
to the activism to protect people’s
rights under the Affordable Care Act,
Americans prove over and over the
power of activism.
The students at Parkland clearly
aren’t quitting. The millions of Ameri-
cans inspired by them give me hope for
the future. I hope my colleagues in this
body finally stand up to the gun lobby
and demand change.
REMEMBERING BILL BREWER
Madam President, on Friday, Ohio
laid to rest a dedicated public servant,
Detective Bill Brewer.
Detective Brewer devoted two dec-
ades of his life to the police force and
made the ultimate sacrifice to keep his
fellow Ohioans safe. He laid down his
life while doing his job responding to a
desperate 911 call with fellow Clermont
County officers in southwest Cin-
cinnati, working to protect the people
he served in Pierce Township.
In the days since Detective Brewer’s
passing, we have heard stories of his
unselfish service to his community and
his family.
Last Sunday, officers from all over
southwest Ohio joined the procession
escorting Detective Brewer home to
Clermont County. In his home of Amel-
ia, OH, his community lined the route,
paying tribute to their fallen hero.
Hundreds attended a memorial service
on Friday, while hundreds more
watched on video. It is a fitting rec-
ognition of the sacrifice this man made
to keep the people of his community
safe.
Detective Brewer was a proud son of
Williamsburg, OH, and a star high
school athlete and a family man. Our
hearts break for his wife of 13 years,
Jamie, and his 5-year-old son, Braxton.
As they mourn this incredible loss, we
hope they take comfort in the out-
pouring of support and honor for the
husband and father.
To his fellow officers, he was a de-
voted friend. He was a mentor. One of
them told the press that Detective
Brewer was always fair and kind-
hearted, that he would give the shirt
off his back for anyone in need. Detec-
tive Brewer’s legacy will live on
through the many lives he touched.
In times of tragedy, Ohioans rise to
the occasion, as do citizens in
Clermont County. We witnessed an out-
pouring of community support in the
days since he was taken from us. No
gesture, of course, ever repays him or
his loved ones. Today we honor this
hero’s memory. We lift up the entire
Clermont County community.
TAX REFORM
Madam President, what we have seen
in the last few days is that more and
more Americans are filing their tax re-
turns and getting their tax refunds,
and they realize that the President’s
tax law was a bit of a sham. They
haven’t seen the raises that the Presi-
dent promised.
I heard the President in the Cabinet
Room say to a group of us: People will
get a $4,000 raise, on average. Some will
get as much as a $9,000 raise with the
tax bill.
Call it an empty promise or call it a
lie. Either way, the President’s words
were empty and meaningless.
Then they expected a huge tax cut
because the President told them it was
hundreds and thousands of dollars.
They are not seeing that either. Then,
to top it all off, there is a provision in
this new tax law that says if a com-
pany shuts down in Orange Town, OH,
as GM did, and then moves to Mexico,
as GM is building again in Mexico, they
actually get 50 percent off. They get a
50-percent-off coupon on their taxes.
What does that mean? That means
that they are paying a 21-percent tax
rate in Ohio—Federal tax rate—but
then they go to Mexico, and they pay
10.5 percent. Believe it or not, under
the President’s tax law, they get a 50-
percent-off coupon if they move over-
seas—exactly the opposite.
The President went to Youngstown,
and he said: We are going to bring more
jobs back. We are going to have more
jobs. Don’t sell your homes if it looks
like there are layoffs coming because
we are going to bring more jobs back.
We are going to build new factories.
None of that happened. The opposite
happened. Again, they shut down pro-
duction in Lordstown, OH. GM did.
They are laying off 5,000 people. They
are moving to Mexico, and they get a
50-percent-off coupon, thanks to Presi-
dent Trump, thanks to the Members of
this body and all Republicans who
voted for this disastrous tax bill.
Now, here is what we need to do. We
need to throw out the Trump tax law—
just throw out the Trump tax law—and
we should rewrite the Tax Code, amaz-
ingly, to put people first.
Here is what we should do. We should
first pass the Patriot Corporation Act.
The Patriot Corporation Act is really
simple. It simply says that if you pay
decent wages, if you provide decent
benefits—health benefits, healthcare,
and pensions or 401(k)—and if you do
your production in the United States of
America, you get a lower tax rate.
In other words, if you are a patriotic
corporation, if you are good citizen,
then, you have earned a lower tax rate.
But the other side of that is that if
you are a big company where the ex-
ecutives are making millions—some-
times tens of millions of dollars—and
you pay your employees—if you have
hundreds of employees or thousands—
$10 or $12 an hour, then you are in a dif-
ferent category. Here is how that
works. If you are making $10 or $12 an
hour and you are working for one of
these big companies, you are eligible
for food stamps often, you are eligible
for Medicaid often, you are eligible for
section 8 housing tax credits often, and
you are eligible for the earned income
tax credit. In other words, these em-
ployees that are making $10 or $12 an
hour get all of these Federal benefits,
even though they are working full
time. So what our bill does is what is
called the ‘‘corporate freeloader fee.’’
As for these companies that pay their
executives millions and pay their
workers $8 and $10 and $12 an hour and
those workers end up getting subsidies
from taxpayers, they pay a corporate
freeloader fee. They pay the govern-
ment. They reimburse taxpayers for
the subsidies that they give their em-
ployees.
I mean, why should all the people in
the Gallery here, why should the staff
working here, who are paying Federal
taxes, why should their taxes go to an
employer where the company is mak-
ing millions and they are paying their
workers such low wages that they are
eligible for food stamps or section 8
housing vouchers or Medicaid or the
earned income tax credit?
The last two bills that we should
pass, as we throw out the President’s
tax law, is the earned income tax cred-
it. If we double the credit, we make
millions more people eligible. It would
mean thousands of dollars in the pock-
ets of tens of millions of Americans. It
would make a difference in their lives.
Instead of giving tax breaks to rich
people, which is what Senate Repub-
licans and President Trump always
want to do—the White House looks like
a retreat for Wall Street executives—
and instead of giving millions in tax
breaks—actually, billions to the
wealthiest people in this country—why
don’t we make the tax system fair and
put money in the pockets of people
making $20,000, $30,000, $40,000, or
$50,000 a year.
That is what our earned income tax
credit expansion would do, and at the
same time, we should expand the child
tax credit. Experts have said that plan
would cut child poverty in half. That
gives kids who grow up in my ZIP code,
44105, who are struggling, who live in
homes with high levels of toxic lead in
the walls—kids who don’t have the
breaks in their lives that my kids
have—a fighting chance. It would lift
half of these kids out of child poverty.
Taken together, the Patriot Corpora-
tion Act, the corporate freeloader fee,
the earned income tax credit, and the
child tax credit would create a Tax
Code that puts money in the pockets of
working people, would create oppor-
tunity for people to aspire to and join
the middle class, would raise wages,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.025 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1193
February 12, 2019
and, equally importantly, would keep
jobs in the United States of America.
Why should this Congress keep pass-
ing legislation, as the President asked,
that would encourage the shutdown of
plants here and moves overseas? Why
don’t we reward companies that do the
right thing? Why don’t we give kids op-
portunities and families opportunities
so they can get ahead? Why don’t we
put money in the pockets of working
people, raise wages, and keep jobs in
the United States of America?
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
section 7003 of the legislation before us
today, as modified by the Rubio
amendment No. 182, addresses units in
the Coastal Barrier Resources System,
which Congress established through bi-
partisan legislation in 1982. Congress
most recently updated maps as rec-
ommended by the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service at the end of last year
through the enactment of Public Law
115–358.
I yield to my distinguished colleague,
the Senator from Delaware, ranking
member of the Environment and Public
Works Committee.
Mr. CARPER. I thank my distin-
guished colleague, the Senator from
Wyoming, chairman of the Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee.
The Coastal Barrier Resources Act is
an important free-market conservation
tool that does not regulate how people
develop their land, but transfers the
full cost of developing in risky, envi-
ronmentally sensitive areas from tax-
payers to the individual choosing to de-
velop. The Coastal Barrier Resources
System also provides much-needed
habitat for our Nation’s treasured wild-
life, including federally threatened Red
Knot birds in Delaware.
Public Law 115–358 added approxi-
mately 18,000 acres along the Delaware,
North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Florida coasts to the Coastal Barrier
Resources System, protecting these
barrier islands, beaches, wetlands, and
aquatic habitat from federally funded
development.
During Senate consideration of S. 47,
the Senate adopted an amendment by
the Senator from Florida, Mr. RUBIO,
which adds two additional replacement
maps for Cape San Blas, FL, as an
amendment to Public Law 115–358.
During the enactment of Public Law
115–358, the Senator from Wyoming and
I sought to make clear that the law is
not intended to prevent the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service from using various
digital tools, digital data, and digital
maps to help implement the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act.
I would ask if my distinguished col-
league, the Senator from Alaska, chair-
man of the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee, could confirm my
understanding that the amendment
made by Senator RUBIO does not
change the use of digital maps by the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for the
ongoing implementation of the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. The Senator from
Delaware is correct that the Rubio
amendment does not affect the use of
digital maps by the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service for the implementation of
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act.
Mr. CARPER. I thank my colleague
for her confirmation of my under-
standing. The Rubio amendment also
includes language which states that
section 7003 of S. 47 has no force or ef-
fect. I ask the Senator from Alaska, is
it her understanding that the provi-
sions of the Rubio amendment, as
adopted by the Senate, do not change
the provisions or implementation of
Public Law 115–358 other than to enact
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s
recommended changes to Cape San
Blas maps?
Ms. MURKOWSKI. The Senator from
Delaware’s understanding of the Rubio
amendment is correct.
Mr. CARPER. I thank my colleague.
Finally, I ask if the Senator from West
Virginia’s understanding is the same as
that of the Senator from Alaska’s with
respect to the effect of the Rubio
amendment.
Mr. MANCHIN. I say to my friend
from Delaware that my understanding
is the same as that of the Senator from
Alaska, and I thank him for his inquiry
into this provision of the bill.
Mr. CARPER. I thank the Senators
for their clarification. Thank you.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I rise today to voice my strong support
for the ‘‘Natural Resources Manage-
ment Act,’’ otherwise known as the
Public Lands Package.
I am a proud cosponsor of this pack-
age because it contains many impor-
tant priorities for California’s public
lands, particularly the ‘‘California
Desert Protection and Recreation
Act.’’ That bill represents the culmina-
tion of decades of collaborative efforts
to protect our desert that began in my
very first year in the Senate.
The lands package also includes a
bill I first introduced 10 years ago to
create California’s first National Herit-
age Area in the Sacramento-San Joa-
quin Delta, as well as two bills to fa-
cilitate smarter management of public
lands and water infrastructure in our
local communities.
I am particularly grateful for Sen-
ator MURKOWSKI’s leadership in moving
this bipartisan effort forward, as well
as Senators CANTWELL and MANCHIN’s
efforts as the ranking members of the
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee last Congress and this one, re-
spectively.
I would also like to thank Congress-
men PAUL COOK, JOHN GARAMENDI, and
MARK DESAULNIER for introducing the
House companions to the four bills I
mentioned.
Now, I would like to take a moment
to describe the four California bills in-
cluded in this package.
Unlike many deserts in the world,
the California desert is abundant with
life, full of plants and animals, many of
which are only found in California.
From desert tortoises to bighorn
sheep, breathtaking wildflower blooms
to iconic Joshua trees, the beauty of
the California desert is unrivaled.
When I first came to Washington 26
years ago, California Senator Alan
Cranston asked me to carry on his ef-
forts to protect the desert by intro-
ducing a desert protection bill.
Despite significant opposition and
even filibuster attempts, the California
Desert Protection Act of 1994 passed
and was signed into law by President
Clinton.
It was a crowning achievement for
desert conservation, protecting more
the 7.5 million acres of pristine desert
land, establishing 69 new Wilderness
Areas, creating the Mojave National
Preserve, and establishing Death Val-
ley and Joshua Tree National Parks.
In 2016, I worked with President
Obama to designate three new national
monuments—Mojave Trails, Sand to
Snow, and Castle Mountains—to pro-
tect an additional 1.8 million acres of
the desert.
But additional legislation is required
to keep the promises I made at that
time to off-roaders, environmentalists,
and other stakeholders to expand con-
servation and recreation efforts in the
desert.
The ‘‘California Desert Protection
and Recreation Act’’ balances the
many uses of the California desert.
The bill protects more than 375,000
acres of wilderness, including expand-
ing Joshua Tree National Park and
Death Valley National Park by 4,518
and 35,292 acres, respectively.
It also permanently designates six
existing Off-Highway Vehicle Recre-
ation Areas totaling 200,580 acres to
provide certainty they will remain ac-
cessible for trail riders.
Lastly, this bill designates 77 miles
of Wild and Scenic Rivers.
I am extremely proud that, after dec-
ades of hard work, our efforts to per-
manently protect California’s iconic
desert are finally coming to fruition.
I would like to now briefly touch on
three other bills included in this pack-
age.
First is the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta National Heritage Area Act,
which establishes the first National
Heritage Area in California.
It also authorizes $10 million in Fed-
eral funding to promote environmental
stewardship, conservation, and eco-
nomic development in communities
across five Delta-area counties.
I first introduced this bill with then-
Senator Barbara Boxer in 2009, and I
am pleased we are finally on the cusp
of enacting it into law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.026 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1194 February 12, 2019
The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta
is the largest estuary in the western
United States.
It is one of the most productive and
ecologically important watersheds in
North America.
The delta offers recreational oppor-
tunities enjoyed by millions of visitors
who come each year for boating, fish-
ing, hunting, and sightseeing.
It also provides critical habitat for
more than 750 wildlife species, includ-
ing Sandhill cranes and other migra-
tory birds along the Pacific Flyway,
and iconic native fish like the Chinook
salmon that return each year to spawn
in tributaries upstream.
Before it was converted into farm-
land starting in the 19th century, the
delta flooded regularly following the
springtime snowmelt and once sup-
ported the continent’s largest Native
American communities.
Later, the delta served as the gate-
way for the California Gold Rush, after
which Chinese immigrants built hun-
dreds of miles of levees to make the
delta’s rich peat soils available for
farming and to control flooding.
Immigrants from all over the world
moved to the area and established the
proud farming legacy that continues
today.
Over the years, the vibrant ‘‘river
culture’’ unique to delta communities
has attracted the attention of cele-
brated authors including Mark Twain,
Jack London, and Joan Didion.
The delta is now facing a crisis due
to invasive species, urban and agricul-
tural run-off, channelization, dredging,
water exports, and other stressors.
I look forward to enacting this bill
and continue working to restore the
delta and help preserve the rich herit-
age of its surrounding communities.
Next is the ‘‘Santa Ana Wash Land
Exchange Act,’’ which would help im-
plement a regional management plan
for the Santa Ana Wash.
Federal, State, and local govern-
ment, along with commercial and pub-
lic interests, all came to the table to
develop a management plan that ac-
counts for all land uses in this area.
Our bill helps facilitate this plan by
directing the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, BLM, to exchange approximately
300 acres of land with the San
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation
District at the junction of the Santa
Ana River and Mill Creek.
Today, the 4,500-acre Santa Ana
Wash is a patchwork of land parcels
owned by the water conservation dis-
trict or BLM.
The land exchange would help con-
solidate 1,347 acres of open space to
preserve and protect habitat along the
river’s floodplain as part of the broader
Santa Ana River Wash Plan.
Two mining companies that extract
materials for cement and concrete pro-
duction also occupy the area. The bill
allows these commercial operations to
continue in the Santa Ana Wash in an
environmentally sensitive manner.
The final bill included in this pack-
age that I would like to discuss is the
Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act.
This bill will transfer ownership of
the Contra Costa Canal System from
the Bureau of Reclamation to the
Contra Costa Water District to allow
the water district to complete nec-
essary safety improvements.
The water district would like to con-
vert the existing open earthen canal to
a closed pipe, which is expected to cost
$650 million.
The water district understandably
wants to take title in order to use as
collateral for issuing bonds to cover
the cost of the conversion, and this bill
would accomplish this.
Tragically, 82 people have drowned in
the canal over the past 70 years despite
protective fencing.
That is more than one death per year
on average, which would be prevented
if the canal were converted into a pipe.
I am sad to say that there was an-
other drowning in the canal just last
year.
Additionally, drought is always an
issue in California, and water is becom-
ing more and more expensive.
About 6 percent of the canal’s water
is lost through evaporation and seep-
age. A covered pipeline would elimi-
nate these losses.
Before I conclude, I would also like
to thank Senator MURKOWSKI for in-
cluding in the package a permanent re-
authorization of the Land and Water
Conservation Fund.
In California alone, the Land and
Water Conservation Fund has been re-
sponsible for the creation or improve-
ment of more than 1,000 parks since
1965.
It has also helped to protect some of
California’s most iconic places, includ-
ing the Lake Tahoe Basin, the Cali-
fornia desert, Point Reyes National
Seashore, Headwaters Forest, the San
Diego and Don Edwards National Wild-
life Refuges, and the national forests of
the Sierra Nevada.
Once again, I am proud to cosponsor
and support this vitally important and
beneficial legislation, and I urge my
colleagues to vote for it.
Thank you.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
we are now down to the final minutes
of debate on S. 47, our Natural Re-
sources Management Act. This is some-
thing we had a good number of Mem-
bers come to the floor to speak on. Our
Members are proud of the many provi-
sions that we have seen fit to include
within this package itself—bills that
relate to lands and land conveyances,
conservation aspects, sportsmen’s pro-
visions, those measures that can help
bring about economic development in
very small areas. We are very proud of
what we have done with this process
that has led us to where we are today.
I am excited that we are coming to
the end of the debate and, hopefully,
will be able to move this bill across the
floor with a very strong bipartisan
vote. We had a good showing last night
with our cloture vote, 87 to 7, to end
the debate. That was good and sound.
We are looking forward to sending this
to our colleagues on the House side for
their review and their support and,
hopefully, shortly after that, their
ratification.
When we take a package that is over
100 bills from over 50 different Senators
and over 90 who have signed on as co-
sponsors, that demonstrates some-
thing. What we have done with the
strength, extent, and expanse of these
provisions, the efforts we have made to
ensure that the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund continues with a per-
manent extension and what we have
done, as I mentioned, within the
sportsmen’s provisions to really help
make a difference for those men and
women, certainly Senator MANCHIN and
me and sportsmen and women around
the country, by making sure that our
public lands are open for recreational
fishing, hunting, target shooting—this
is significant for us, certainly from an
economic perspective, when you think
about how much goes into these areas.
Sportsmen and women spent about $119
billion—that was back in 2016—on ev-
erything from their gear to the support
in these small communities. But when
we talk about access to land, it is not
just access to land, it is expansion of
economic opportunities.
We also have provisions to encourage
the Secretary of Interior and Secretary
of Agriculture to think bigger and
identify more opportunities for recre-
ation, hunting, and fishing on our pub-
lic lands. We have special hunting days
for youth, veterans, and Active Duty
military. We have included provisions
from the WILD Act—the Wildlife Inno-
vation and Longevity Driver Act—to
protect endangered populations and
combat invasive species. There is so
much contained in this measure.
With regard to the conservation pro-
visions, we think we have done them
right because we have worked to en-
sure that we have strong support at
State and local levels. We are creating
three new National monuments—two
in Kentucky and one in Mississippi—
with Congress at the helm of those pro-
visions.
We have provisions to improve vol-
cano monitoring and warning systems,
which is important if an aircraft in the
sky passes across an area where there
has been eruptions. We have provisions
that promote wildlife conservation,
combat endangered species, protect en-
dangered species and water manage-
ment provisions that save water, pro-
tect public safety, enhance fish protec-
tions and wildlife habitat. We do all of
this, and the CBO estimates that we
will reduce direct spending by $10 mil-
lion over the next 10 years. We recog-
nize that is hardly enough to reduce
deficits, but it is a bonus. We are
chalking that up as an additional
bonus.
This has come together with a great
deal of hard work by many Members
and our staffs. I want to particularly
recognize the good work of my ranking
partners, Senator CANTWELL in the pre-
vious Congress and now Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.005 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1195
February 12, 2019
MANCHIN, and their help in getting us
to this point. I thank not only the
Members but their very strong staffs
who have worked in conjunction with
my staff. I recognize that we stand up
and do a lot of the talking, but the be-
hind-the-scenes negotiation, the navi-
gating, making sure that the wording
is just exact—what we have done, I
think, has been yeoman’s work in get-
ting us here, and I am very, very proud
of all of those who have helped accom-
plish that.
Stating for the Members again, this
is a big package, a substantive pack-
age, but there is more to come. These
public lands matters have a tendency
to stack up, so we are hardly finished
with our work in this area. We are
clearing the decks this afternoon of the
items that are ready to go to the Presi-
dent right now. After we spent so much
time working through them in this reg-
ular order process in this Congress, I
think it is something we can be proud
of.
There is a lot of stress that goes on,
and there have been some discussions,
just earlier, about how we keep the
wheels on the bus, how we keep the
government from shutting down, how
we figure out how to deal with appro-
priations bills, and here we have been
just plugging quietly along, moving
forward on legislation that has been a
great cooperative effort, a great bipar-
tisan effort, and, hopefully soon, a very
great bicameral effort, demonstrating
that maybe—just maybe—we in Con-
gress can get something done.
It is nice to be part of a team that is
making things happen and, again,
great thanks and great appreciation to
the many Members who have helped. I
also want to give a shout-out to Sen-
ator HEINRICH, who has been here every
step of the way, pushing on these
sportsmen’s matters. Senator WYDEN
has also been a great help. Over on the
Republican side, Senator GARDNER and
Senator DAINES have been in this every
inch of the way, helping us advance. It
is a good place and a good time to be
working toward the finish line.
With that, I yield to my friend and
ranking member, the Senator from
West Virginia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
first of all, I can’t tell you what a
pleasure it has been to work with
Chairman MURKOWSKI. We have been
able to show—and even in the 115th
Congress, with the ranking member,
Senator CANTWELL—the committee
worked in a bipartisan way. So when
people think the process is broken, it is
really not broken. It might be wobbling
a little bit and might need some re-
pairs, but in the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee on the Senate
side, we have shown it can be done. But
it has to be a matter of trust. We have
to trust each other and, basically, com-
municate to work through these issues,
and we have been able to do that.
When there has been a little bit of
concern popping up from time to time,
we get together. Senator MURKOWSKI
and I have called and talked to each
other and worked through it. We have
talked with the chairman and ranking
member over in the House to make
sure they are in lockstep with us as we
went through this.
We look for this to be extremely suc-
cessful as it reaches the House. These
bills are going to improve the way pub-
lic lands are managed and conserved at
the ground level. While these bills are
important to the residents of small
towns across America, many of the
bills in this package do not have a sig-
nificant impact outside their local
sphere. These are truly local bills. As
such, it is rare for these bills to receive
consideration on the Senate floor. I be-
lieve what we are saying is, by them-
selves it would be hard to move some-
thing like this, but as a package—and
it has been over 45 years since the
lands package has been done; that is
really the reason it has been quite
time-consuming.
I want to again thank my colleagues
for their tireless work—of course,
Chairman MURKOWSKI, Ranking Mem-
ber MARIE CANTWELL, and Senators
HEINRICH, GARDNER, and DAINES on the
Republican side. Everyone has worked
very well together.
I also want to thank the committee
staff because the committee staff and
floor staff really have made this pack-
age come together, and they have
worked tirelessly.
All of the outside groups brought all
of their information to us. We were
able to work with them, and it was
quite fulfilling.
The package has been warmly re-
ceived by both Democrats and Repub-
licans, and from our conversations
with folks in the House, we are expect-
ing it to receive a warm reception over
there as well.
I cannot tell you how many Members
are excited to get this to the Presi-
dent’s desk for his signature. This
package adds thousands of miles to our
National Trails System, designates 1.3
million acres of wilderness, designates
hundreds of miles of Wild and Scenic
Rivers, and will improve hunting, fish-
ing, and recreation access to our Fed-
eral lands.
As I have said before, our public
lands are truly one of our Nation’s
greatest treasures, and we are fortu-
nate to have so many places set aside
for the public to enjoy. Each year, 67
percent of the people of West Virginia
take to the outdoors to enjoy our wild
and wonderful areas. In my State of
West Virginia, it is truly almost Heav-
en because of the access to all the
beauty we have.
Again, in my State of West Virginia
alone, outdoor recreation supports
91,000 direct jobs—that is a lot of jobs
for my State but, really, for any
State—and $9 billion in consumer
spending.
The centerpiece of this package is
the permanent reauthorization of the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.
This is truly the part of the legislation
that really carries the water, figu-
ratively speaking. This is a simple yet
highly effective conservation tool with
unrivaled success over the last 50
years.
Unfortunately, the LWCF expired
last September, but this package will
reinstate the program to ensure that
States and Federal public land man-
agement Agencies can continue to pro-
tect and conserve our natural re-
sources.
Since 1965, more than $243 million in
LWCF funds have been spent in West
Virginia on more than 500 projects,
both on State and Federal lands. This
includes improvements to local parks
and public spaces in 54 of our State’s 55
counties, and it does so without relying
on taxpayer dollars.
I again want to highlight the long-
awaited priorities for sportsmen’s
groups included in this package. Hunt-
ing in all of our States and in my State
of West Virginia is one of our oldest
pastimes, where friends and family
gather and spend quality time. It is im-
portant that we provide opportunities
to keep these traditions alive.
The Natural Resources Management
Act will expand and enhance sports-
men’s access by making Federal lands
throughout West Virginia and through-
out the Nation ‘‘open unless closed’’ for
hunting, fishing, recreational shooting,
and many other outdoor activities.
As a hunter myself, and as vice chair
of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Cau-
cus, I know how frustrated the sports-
men’s groups have been in trying to get
their bills passed over the last few
years. That is why I am so pleased that
so many of our priorities are included
in this package.
I am pleased to say that the Natural
Resources Management Act will estab-
lish several national heritage areas, in-
cluding one in West Virginia—the Ap-
palachian Forest Heritage Area. This
local heritage area has been operating
as an ad hoc national heritage area.
By providing an official NHA des-
ignation, the Appalachian Forest Her-
itage Area can earn the national rec-
ognition it deserves and is now also eli-
gible for grants and technical assist-
ance from the National Park Service.
This will enable the heritage area to
take the services they provide to the
region to the next level.
I believe that this package is a great
bill for both Republicans and Demo-
crats and all of our friends. Numerous
pieces of legislation have been long-
standing priorities for many Members,
and they have been included.
I would like to thank Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI again, as well as the other
Members of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, all of the staff
members, and the floor members for
their efforts to reach an agreement on
this bill.
I would also like to thank the major-
ity leader for his willingness to bring
this bill to the floor in such an expe-
dited manner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.030 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1196 February 12, 2019
I believe it is time for this bill to get
over to the House and to the President
for his signature. I want to thank all
who have been involved.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 182 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 112
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). Under the previous order, all
postcloture time has expired.
The question is on agreeing to
amendment No. 182, offered by the Sen-
ator from Florida [Mr. RUBIO].
The amendment (No. 182) was agreed
to.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 112 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 111
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to amendment
No. 112, offered by the Senator from
Alaska [Ms. MURKOWSKI], as amended.
The amendment (No. 112), as amend-
ed, was agreed to.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 111
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the substitute
amendment, as amended, was agreed
to.
The amendment (No. 111), in the na-
ture of a substitute, as amended, was
agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
The result was announced—yeas 92,
nays 8, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 22 Leg.]
YEAS—92
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—8
Cruz
Inhofe
Johnson
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Sasse
Toomey
The bill (S. 47), as amended, was
passed, as follows:
S. 47
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
Sec. 1001. Crags land exchange, Colorado.
Sec. 1002. Arapaho National Forest bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 1003. Santa Ana River Wash Plan land
exchange.
Sec. 1004. Udall Park land exchange.
Sec. 1005. Confirmation of State land grants.
Sec. 1006. Custer County Airport convey-
ance.
Sec. 1007. Pascua Yaqui Tribe land convey-
ance.
Sec. 1008. La Paz County land conveyance.
Sec. 1009. Lake Bistineau land title sta-
bility.
Sec. 1010. Lake Fannin land conveyance.
Sec. 1011. Land conveyance and utility
right-of-way, Henry’s Lake Wil-
derness Study Area, Idaho.
Sec. 1012. Conveyance to Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation.
Sec. 1013. Public purpose conveyance to City
of Hyde Park, Utah.
Sec. 1014. Juab County conveyance.
Sec. 1015. Black Mountain Range and Bull-
head City land exchange.
Sec. 1016. Cottonwood land exchange.
Sec. 1017. Embry-Riddle Tri-City land ex-
change.
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
Sec. 1101. Bolts Ditch access.
Sec. 1102. Clarification relating to a certain
land description under the
Northern Arizona Land Ex-
change and Verde River Basin
Partnership Act of 2005.
Sec. 1103. Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management
Area.
Sec. 1104. Maintenance or replacement of fa-
cilities and structures at Smith
Gulch.
Sec. 1105. Repeal of provision limiting the
export of timber harvested from
certain Kake Tribal Corpora-
tion land.
Sec. 1106. Designation of Fowler and Boskoff
Peaks.
Sec. 1107. Coronado National Forest land
conveyance.
Sec. 1108. Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area bound-
ary adjustment, Oregon.
Sec. 1109. Maintenance of Federal mineral
leases based on extraction of
helium.
Sec. 1110. Small miner waivers to claim
maintenance fees.
Sec. 1111. Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial and National
Monument.
Sec. 1112. Owyhee Wilderness Areas bound-
ary modifications.
Sec. 1113. Chugach Region land study.
Sec. 1114. Wildfire technology moderniza-
tion.
Sec. 1115. McCoy Flats Trail System.
Sec. 1116. Technical corrections to certain
laws relating to Federal land in
the State of Nevada.
Sec. 1117. Ashley Karst National Recreation
and Geologic Area.
Sec. 1118. John Wesley Powell National Con-
servation Area.
Sec. 1119. Alaska Native Vietnam era vet-
erans land allotment.
Sec. 1120. Red River gradient boundary sur-
vey.
Sec. 1121. San Juan County settlement im-
plementation.
Sec. 1122. Rio Puerco Watershed manage-
ment program.
Sec. 1123. Ashley Springs land conveyance.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1201. Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
conservation.
Sec. 1202. Cerro del Yuta and Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 1203. Methow Valley, Washington, Fed-
eral land withdrawal.
Sec. 1204. Emigrant Crevice withdrawal.
Sec. 1205. Oregon Wildlands.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
Sec. 1211. Definitions.
Sec. 1212. Administration.
Sec. 1213. Effect on water rights.
Sec. 1214. Savings clause.
SUBPART A—SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA
Sec. 1221. Establishment of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1222. Management of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1223. San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
Advisory Council.
SUBPART B—WILDERNESS AREAS
Sec. 1231. Additions to the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System.
Sec. 1232. Administration.
Sec. 1233. Fish and wildlife management.
Sec. 1234. Release.
SUBPART C—WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
DESIGNATION
Sec. 1241. Green River wild and scenic river
designation.
SUBPART D—LAND MANAGEMENT AND
CONVEYANCES
Sec. 1251. Goblin Valley State Park.
Sec. 1252. Jurassic National Monument.
Sec. 1253. Public land disposal and acquisi-
tion.
Sec. 1254. Public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 1255. Exchange of BLM and School and
Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration land.
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
Sec. 1301. Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook wild and scenic
river.
Sec. 1302. Wood-Pawcatuck watershed wild
and scenic river segments.
Sec. 1303. Nashua wild and scenic rivers,
Massachusetts and New Hamp-
shire.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
Sec. 1401. Definitions.
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS IN THE
CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION AREA
Sec. 1411. California desert conservation and
recreation.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
Sec. 1421. Vinagre Wash Special Manage-
ment Area.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
Sec. 1431. Death Valley National Park
boundary revision.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.031 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1197
February 12, 2019
Sec. 1432. Mojave National Preserve.
Sec. 1433. Joshua Tree National Park.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS
Sec. 1441. Off-highway vehicle recreation
areas.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 1451. Transfer of land to Anza-Borrego
Desert State Park.
Sec. 1452. Wildlife corridors.
Sec. 1453. Prohibited uses of acquired, do-
nated, and conservation land.
Sec. 1454. Tribal uses and interests.
Sec. 1455. Release of Federal reversionary
land interests.
Sec. 1456. California State school land.
Sec. 1457. Designation of wild and scenic riv-
ers.
Sec. 1458. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1459. Juniper Flats.
Sec. 1460. Conforming amendments to Cali-
fornia Military Lands With-
drawal and Overflights Act of
1994.
Sec. 1461. Desert tortoise conservation cen-
ter.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
Sec. 2001. Special resource study of James K.
Polk presidential home.
Sec. 2002. Special resource study of
Thurgood Marshall school.
Sec. 2003. Special resource study of Presi-
dent Street Station.
Sec. 2004. Amache special resource study.
Sec. 2005. Special resource study of George
W. Bush Childhood Home.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
Sec. 2101. Shiloh National Military Park
boundary adjustment.
Sec. 2102. Ocmulgee Mounds National His-
torical Park boundary.
Sec. 2103. Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park boundary.
Sec. 2104. Fort Frederica National Monu-
ment, Georgia.
Sec. 2105. Fort Scott National Historic Site
boundary.
Sec. 2106. Florissant Fossil Beds National
Monument boundary.
Sec. 2107. Voyageurs National Park bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 2108. Acadia National Park boundary.
Sec. 2109. Authority of Secretary of the In-
terior to accept certain prop-
erties, Missouri.
Sec. 2110. Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt
National Historic Site.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
Sec. 2201. Designation of Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historical Park.
Sec. 2202. Redesignation of Robert Emmet
Park.
Sec. 2203. Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie
National Historical Park.
Sec. 2204. Reconstruction Era National His-
torical Park and Reconstruc-
tion Era National Historic Net-
work.
Sec. 2205. Golden Spike National Historical
Park.
Sec. 2206. World War II Pacific sites.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
Sec. 2301. Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument.
Sec. 2302. Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument.
Sec. 2303. Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
Sec. 2401. Denali National Park and Pre-
serve natural gas pipeline.
Sec. 2402. Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Historic Preserva-
tion program reauthorized.
Sec. 2402A. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System.
Sec. 2403. Authorizing cooperative manage-
ment agreements between the
District of Columbia and the
Secretary of the Interior.
Sec. 2404. Fees for Medical Services.
Sec. 2405. Authority to grant easements and
rights-of-way over Federal
lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area.
Sec. 2406. Adams Memorial Commission.
Sec. 2407. Technical corrections to ref-
erences to the African Amer-
ican Civil Rights Network.
Sec. 2408. Transfer of the James J. Howard
Marine Sciences Laboratory.
Sec. 2409. Bows in parks.
Sec. 2410. Wildlife management in parks.
Sec. 2411. Pottawattamie County rever-
sionary interest.
Sec. 2412. Designation of Dean Stone Bridge.
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
Sec. 2501. North Country Scenic Trail Route
adjustment.
Sec. 2502. Extension of Lewis and Clark Na-
tional Historic Trail.
Sec. 2503. American Discovery Trail signage.
Sec. 2504. Pike National Historic Trail
study.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 3001. Reauthorization of Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Sec. 3002. Conservation incentives land-
owner education program.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
Sec. 4001. Congressional declaration of na-
tional policy.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
Sec. 4101. Definitions.
Sec. 4102. Federal land open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting.
Sec. 4103. Closure of Federal land to hunt-
ing, fishing, and recreational
shooting.
Sec. 4104. Shooting ranges.
Sec. 4105. Identifying opportunities for
recreation, hunting, and fishing
on Federal land.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
Sec. 4201. Federal action transparency.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
Sec. 4301. Federal closing date for hunting of
ducks, mergansers, and coots.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
Sec. 4401. Respect for treaties and rights.
Sec. 4402. No priority.
Sec. 4403. State authority for fish and wild-
life.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
Sec. 5001. National Volcano Early Warning
and Monitoring System.
Sec. 5002. Reauthorization of National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992.
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
Sec. 6001. National Heritage Area designa-
tions.
Sec. 6002. Adjustment of boundaries of Lin-
coln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 6003. Finger Lakes National Heritage
Area study.
Sec. 6004. National Heritage Area amend-
ments.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
Sec. 7001. Wildlife habitat and conservation.
Sec. 7002. Reauthorization of Neotropical
Migratory Bird Conservation
Act.
Sec. 7003. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
Sec. 8001. Purpose.
Sec. 8002. Definitions.
Sec. 8003. Authorization of transfers of title
to eligible facilities.
Sec. 8004. Eligibility criteria.
Sec. 8005. Liability.
Sec. 8006. Benefits.
Sec. 8007. Compliance with other laws.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
Sec. 8101. Extension of authorization for an-
nual base funding of fish recov-
ery programs; removal of cer-
tain reporting requirement.
Sec. 8102. Report on recovery implementa-
tion programs.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
Sec. 8201. Authorization of phase III.
Sec. 8202. Modification of purposes and defi-
nitions.
Sec. 8203. Yakima River Basin Water Con-
servation Program.
Sec. 8204. Yakima Basin water projects, op-
erations, and authorizations.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
Sec. 8301. Conveyance of Maintenance Com-
plex and District Office of the
Arbuckle Project, Oklahoma.
Sec. 8302. Contra Costa Canal transfer.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
Sec. 8401. Extension of Equus Beds Division
of the Wichita Project.
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
Sec. 8501. Watersmart.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
Sec. 8601. Definitions.
Sec. 8602. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for reserved works.
Sec. 8603. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for transferred
works.
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 9001. Every Kid Outdoors Act.
Sec. 9002. Good Samaritan Search and Re-
covery Act.
Sec. 9003. 21st Century Conservation Service
Corps Act.
Sec. 9004. National Nordic Museum Act.
Sec. 9005. Designation of National George C.
Marshall Museum and Library.
Sec. 9006. 21st Century Respect Act.
Sec. 9007. American World War II Heritage
Cities.
Sec. 9008. Quindaro Townsite National Com-
memorative Site.
Sec. 9009. Designation of National Comedy
Center in Jamestown, New
York.
Sec. 9010. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.
In this Act, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of the Interior.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
SEC. 1001. CRAGS LAND EXCHANGE, COLORADO.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1198 February 12, 2019
(1) to authorize, direct, expedite and facili-
tate the land exchange set forth herein; and
(2) to promote enhanced public outdoor
recreational and natural resource conserva-
tion opportunities in the Pike National For-
est near Pikes Peak, Colorado, via acquisi-
tion of the non-Federal land and trail ease-
ment.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) BHI.—The term ‘‘BHI’’ means
Broadmoor Hotel, Inc., a Colorado corpora-
tion.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 83
acres of land within the Pike National For-
est, El Paso County, Colorado, together with
a nonexclusive perpetual access easement to
BHI to and from such land on Forest Service
Road 371, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Federal Parcel–Emerald Valley Ranch’’ and
dated March 2015.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land and trail ease-
ment to be conveyed to the Secretary by BHI
in the exchange and is—
(A) approximately 320 acres of land within
the Pike National Forest, Teller County,
Colorado, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Non-Federal Parcel–Crags Property’’ and
dated March 2015; and
(B) a permanent trail easement for the
Barr Trail in El Paso County, Colorado, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Crags Land Exchange–Barr Trail Ease-
ment to United States’’ and dated March
2015, and which shall be considered as a vol-
untary donation to the United States by BHI
for all purposes of law.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(c) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If BHI offers to convey to
the Secretary all right, title, and interest of
BHI in and to the non-Federal land, the Sec-
retary shall accept the offer and simulta-
neously convey to BHI the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed and donated to the Secretary
under this section shall be acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) PERPETUAL ACCESS EASEMENT TO BHI.—
The nonexclusive perpetual access easement
to be granted to BHI as shown on the map re-
ferred to in subsection (b)(2) shall allow—
(A) BHI to fully maintain, at BHI’s ex-
pense, and use Forest Service Road 371 from
its junction with Forest Service Road 368 in
accordance with historic use and mainte-
nance patterns by BHI; and
(B) full and continued public and adminis-
trative access and use of Forest Service Road
371 in accordance with the existing Forest
Service travel management plan, or as such
plan may be revised by the Secretary.
(4) ROUTE AND CONDITION OF ROAD.—BHI and
the Secretary may mutually agree to im-
prove, relocate, reconstruct, or otherwise
alter the route and condition of all or por-
tions of such road as the Secretary, in close
consultation with BHI, may determine advis-
able.
(5) EXCHANGE COSTS.—BHI shall pay for all
land survey, appraisal, and other costs to the
Secretary as may be necessary to process
and consummate the exchange directed by
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(d) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and BHI.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal land and non-Federal land par-
cels exchanged shall be equal, or if they are
not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land parcel identified in subsection
(b)(3)(A), BHI shall make a cash equalization
payment to the United States as necessary
to achieve equal value, including, if nec-
essary, an amount in excess of that author-
ized pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of l976 (43
U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 2 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land parcel identified in sub-
section (b)(3)(A) exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to BHI, and surplus value of the non-Federal
land shall be considered a donation by BHI
to the United States for all purposes of law.
(3) APPRAISAL EXCLUSIONS.—
(A) SPECIAL USE PERMIT.—The appraised
value of the Federal land parcel shall not re-
flect any increase or diminution in value due
to the special use permit existing on the date
of enactment of this Act to BHI on the par-
cel and improvements thereunder.
(B) BARR TRAIL EASEMENT.—The Barr Trail
easement donation identified in subsection
(b)(3)(B) shall not be appraised for purposes
of this section.
(e) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.—
(1) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—Lands acquired by the
Secretary under this section shall, without
further action by the Secretary, be perma-
nently withdrawn from all forms of appro-
priation and disposal under the public land
laws (including the mining and mineral leas-
ing laws) and the Geothermal Steam Act of
1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(B) WITHDRAWAL REVOCATION.—Any public
land order that withdraws the Federal land
from appropriation or disposal under a public
land law shall be revoked to the extent nec-
essary to permit disposal of the Federal land
parcel to BHI.
(C) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND.—All
Federal land authorized to be exchanged
under this section, if not already withdrawn
or segregated from appropriation or disposal
under the public lands laws upon enactment
of this Act, is hereby so withdrawn, subject
to valid existing rights, until the date of
conveyance of the Federal land to BHI.
(2) POSTEXCHANGE LAND MANAGEMENT.—
Land acquired by the Secretary under this
section shall become part of the Pike-San
Isabel National Forest and be managed in ac-
cordance with the laws, rules, and regula-
tions applicable to the National Forest Sys-
tem.
(3) EXCHANGE TIMETABLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange directed
by this section be consummated no later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(4) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and BHI
may by mutual agreement make minor
boundary adjustments to the Federal and
non-Federal lands involved in the exchange,
and may correct any minor errors in any
map, acreage estimate, or description of any
land to be exchanged.
(B) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict be-
tween a map, an acreage estimate, or a de-
scription of land under this section, the map
shall control unless the Secretary and BHI
mutually agree otherwise.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—Upon enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall file and make avail-
able for public inspection in the head-
quarters of the Pike-San Isabel National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1002. ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Arapaho National Forest in the State of Col-
orado is adjusted to incorporate the approxi-
mately 92.95 acres of land generally depicted
as ‘‘The Wedge’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Arap-
aho National Forest Boundary Adjustment’’
and dated November 6, 2013, and described as
lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13,
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth
Principal Meridian, Colorado. A lot described
in this subsection may be included in the
boundary adjustment only after the Sec-
retary of Agriculture obtains written per-
mission for such action from the lot owner
or owners.
(b) BOWEN GULCH PROTECTION AREA.—The
Secretary of Agriculture shall include all
Federal land within the boundary described
in subsection (a) in the Bowen Gulch Protec-
tion Area established under section 6 of the
Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
539j).
(c) LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.—
For purposes of section 200306(a)(2)(B)(i) of
title 54, United States Code, the boundaries
of the Arapaho National Forest, as modified
under subsection (a), shall be considered to
be the boundaries of the Arapaho National
Forest as in existence on January 1, 1965.
(d) PUBLIC MOTORIZED USE.—Nothing in
this section opens privately owned lands
within the boundary described in subsection
(a) to public motorized use.
(e) ACCESS TO NON-FEDERAL LANDS.—Not-
withstanding the provisions of section 6(f) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 539j(f)) regarding motorized travel,
the owners of any non-Federal lands within
the boundary described in subsection (a) who
historically have accessed their lands
through lands now or hereafter owned by the
United States within the boundary described
in subsection (a) shall have the continued
right of motorized access to their lands
across the existing roadway.
SEC. 1003. SANTA ANA RIVER WASH PLAN LAND
EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CONSERVATION DISTRICT.—The term
‘‘Conservation District’’ means the San
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation Dis-
trict, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
(2) FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The term
‘‘Federal exchange parcel’’ means the ap-
proximately 90 acres of Federal land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management
generally depicted as ‘‘BLM Equalization
Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map and is to be
conveyed to the Conservation District if nec-
essary to equalize the fair market values of
the lands otherwise to be exchanged.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1199
February 12, 2019
(3) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 327 acres of
Federal land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management generally depicted as
‘‘BLM Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map.
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Santa Ana River Wash Land Ex-
change’’ and dated September 3, 2015.
(5) NON-FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The
term ‘‘non-Federal exchange parcel’’ means
the approximately 59 acres of land owned by
the Conservation District generally depicted
as ‘‘SBVWCD Equalization Land’’ on the
Map and is to be conveyed to the United
States if necessary to equalize the fair mar-
ket values of the lands otherwise to be ex-
changed.
(6) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately 310
acres of land owned by the Conservation Dis-
trict generally depicted as ‘‘SBVWCD to
BLM’’ on the Map.
(b) EXCHANGE OF LAND; EQUALIZATION OF
VALUE.—
(1) EXCHANGE AUTHORIZED.—Notwith-
standing the land use planning requirements
of sections 202, 210, and 211 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712, 1720, 1721), subject to valid exist-
ing rights, and conditioned upon any equali-
zation payment necessary under section
206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), and
paragraph (2), as soon as practicable, but not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, if the Conservation Dis-
trict offers to convey the exchange land to
the United States, the Secretary shall—
(A) convey to the Conservation District all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Federal land, and any such por-
tion of the Federal exchange parcel as may
be required to equalize the values of the
lands exchanged; and
(B) accept from the Conservation District a
conveyance of all right, title, and interest of
the Conservation District in and to the non-
Federal land, and any such portion of the
non-Federal exchange parcel as may be re-
quired to equalize the values of the lands ex-
changed.
(2) EQUALIZATION PAYMENT.—To the extent
an equalization payment is necessary under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)),
the amount of such equalization payment
shall first be made by way of in-kind transfer
of such portion of the Federal exchange par-
cel to the Conservation District, or transfer
of such portion of the non-Federal exchange
parcel to the United States, as the case may
be, as may be necessary to equalize the fair
market values of the exchanged properties.
The fair market value of the Federal ex-
change parcel or non-Federal exchange par-
cel, as the case may be, shall be credited
against any required equalization payment.
To the extent such credit is not sufficient to
offset the entire amount of equalization pay-
ment so indicated, any remaining amount of
equalization payment shall be treated as fol-
lows:
(A) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the Federal land exceeds
the non-Federal land and the credited value
of the non-Federal exchange parcel, Con-
servation District may make the equali-
zation payment to the United States, not-
withstanding any limitation regarding the
amount of the equalization payment under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). In
the event Conservation District opts not to
make the indicated equalization payment,
the exchange shall not proceed.
(B) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the non-Federal land ex-
ceeds the Federal land and the credited value
of the Federal exchange parcel, the Sec-
retary shall order the exchange without re-
quirement of any additional equalization
payment by the United States to the Con-
servation District.
(3) APPRAISALS.—
(A) The value of the land to be exchanged
under this section shall be determined by ap-
praisals conducted by one or more inde-
pendent and qualified appraisers.
(B) The appraisals shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with nationally recognized ap-
praisal standards, including, as appropriate,
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal
Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Stand-
ards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(4) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the land to
be exchanged under this section shall be in a
format acceptable to the Secretary and the
Conservation District.
(5) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall finalize a map
and legal descriptions of all land to be con-
veyed under this section. The Secretary may
correct any minor errors in the map or in
the legal descriptions. The map and legal de-
scriptions shall be on file and available for
public inspection in appropriate offices of
the Bureau of Land Management.
(6) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of conveyance, any costs related to the con-
veyance under this section shall be paid by
the Conservation District.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(1) ACT OF FEBRUARY 20, 1909.—
(A) The Act of February 20, 1909 (35 Stat.
641), shall not apply to the Federal land and
any public exchange land transferred under
this section.
(B) The exchange of lands under this sec-
tion shall be subject to continuing rights of
the Conservation District under the Act of
February 20, 1909 (35 Stat. 641), on the non-
Federal land and any exchanged portion of
the non-Federal exchange parcel for the con-
tinued use, maintenance, operation, con-
struction, or relocation of, or expansion of,
groundwater recharge facilities on the non-
Federal land, to accommodate groundwater
recharge of the Bunker Hill Basin to the ex-
tent that such activities are not in conflict
with any Habitat Conservation Plan or Habi-
tat Management Plan under which such non-
Federal land or non-Federal exchange parcel
may be held or managed.
(2) FLPMA.—Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.), shall apply to the exchange of land
under this section.
(d) CANCELLATION OF SECRETARIAL ORDER
241.—Secretarial Order 241, dated November
11, 1929 (withdrawing a portion of the Federal
land for an unconstructed transmission line),
is terminated and the withdrawal thereby ef-
fected is revoked.
SEC. 1004. UDALL PARK LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means the city
of Tucson, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately
172.8-acre parcel of City land identified in
the patent numbered 02–90–0001 and dated Oc-
tober 4, 1989, and more particularly described
as lots 3 and 4, S1⁄2NW1⁄4, sec. 5, T.14 S., R.15
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, Arizona.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN TUCSON, ARI-
ZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
convey to the City, without consideration,
the reversionary interests of the United
States in and to the non-Federal land for the
purpose of unencumbering the title to the
non-Federal land to enable economic devel-
opment of the non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal descriptions of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with that
paragraph, as the Secretary considers appro-
priate to protect the interests of the United
States.
(4) COSTS.—The City shall pay all costs as-
sociated with the conveyance under para-
graph (1), consistent with that paragraph, in-
cluding the costs of any surveys, recording
costs, and other reasonable costs.
SEC. 1005. CONFIRMATION OF STATE LAND
GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the State of Utah may select any
lands in T. 6 S. and T. 7 S., R. 1 W., Salt Lake
Base and Meridian, that are owned by the
United States, under the administrative ju-
risdiction of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, and identified as available for disposal
by land exchange in the Record of Decision
for the Pony Express Resource Management
Plan and Rangeland Program Summary for
Utah County (January 1990), as amended by
the Pony Express Plan Amendment (Novem-
ber 1997), in fulfillment of the land grants
made in sections 6, 8, and 12 of the Act of
July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107) as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Utah
County Quantity Grants’’ and dated June 27,
2017, to further the purposes of the State of
Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration, without further land use
planning action by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(b) APPLICATION.—The criteria listed in De-
cision 3 of the Lands Program of the re-
source management plan described in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to any land se-
lected under that subsection.
(c) EFFECT ON LIMITATION.—Nothing in this
section affects the limitation established
under section 2815(d) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Pub-
lic Law 106–65).
SEC. 1006. CUSTER COUNTY AIRPORT CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Custer County, South Dakota.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately
65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as
generally depicted on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Custer County Airport Convey-
ance’’ and dated October 19, 2017.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the Federal land for the market
value, as determined by the appraisal under
paragraph (3), the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1200 February 12, 2019
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the market value of the Federal
land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct any errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the market value of the
Federal land, as determined by the appraisal
under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Federal land to be con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be deter-
mined by a survey satisfactory to the Sec-
retary.
(7) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—Any
proceeds received by the Secretary from the
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(B) available to the Secretary until ex-
pended, without further appropriation, for
the acquisition of inholdings in units of the
National Forest System in the State of
South Dakota.
SEC. 1007. PASCUA YAQUI TRIBE LAND CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Tucson Unified School District No. 1, a
school district recognized as such under the
laws of the State of Arizona.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘ ‘Pascua Yaqui Tribe Land Convey-
ance Act’’, dated March 14, 2016, and on file
and available for public inspection in the
local office of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(3) RECREATION AND PUBLIC PURPOSES ACT.—
The term ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes
Act’’ means the Act of June 14, 1926 (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(4) TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Tribe’’ means the
Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona, a federally
recognized Indian Tribe.
(b) LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.—
(1) PARCEL A.—Subject to paragraph (2) and
to valid existing rights, all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
approximately 39.65 acres of Federal lands
generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Parcel A’’
are declared to be held in trust by the United
States for the benefit of the Tribe.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraph (1) shall
take effect on the day after the date on
which the District relinquishes all right,
title, and interest of the District in and to
the approximately 39.65 acres of land de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(c) LANDS TO BE CONVEYED TO THE DIS-
TRICT.—
(1) PARCEL B.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights and payment to the United States of
the fair market value, the United States
shall convey to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the approximately 13.24 acres of Federal
lands generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Par-
cel B’’.
(B) DETERMINATION OF FAIR MARKET
VALUE.—The fair market value of the prop-
erty to be conveyed under subparagraph (A)
shall be determined by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Appraisal Stand-
ards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice.
(C) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance shall
be paid by the District.
(2) PARCEL C.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If, not later than 1 year
after the completion of the appraisal re-
quired by subparagraph (C), the District sub-
mits to the Secretary an offer to acquire the
Federal reversionary interest in all of the
approximately 27.5 acres of land conveyed to
the District under Recreation and Public
Purposes Act and generally depicted on the
map as ‘‘Parcel C’’, the Secretary shall con-
vey to the District such reversionary inter-
est in the lands covered by the offer. The
Secretary shall complete the conveyance not
later than 30 days after the date of the offer.
(B) SURVEY.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the lands
described in this paragraph to determine the
precise boundaries and acreage of the lands
subject to the Federal reversionary interest.
(C) APPRAISAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
Federal reversionary interest in the lands
identified by the survey required by subpara-
graph (B). The appraisal shall be completed
in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal
Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and
the Uniform Standards of Professional Ap-
praisal Practice.
(D) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance of the Federal reversionary
interest under this paragraph, the District
shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal
to the appraised value of the Federal inter-
est, as determined under subparagraph (C).
The consideration shall be paid not later
than 30 days after the date of the convey-
ance.
(E) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance, in-
cluding the cost of the survey required by
subparagraph (B) and the appraisal required
by subparagraph (C), shall be paid by the
District.
(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—The Tribe may
not conduct gaming activities on lands
taken into trust pursuant to this section, ei-
ther as a matter of claimed inherent author-
ity, under the authority of any Federal law,
including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act
(25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), or under regulations
promulgated by the Secretary or the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
(e) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be no Federal
reserved right to surface water or ground-
water for any land taken into trust by the
United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
(2) STATE WATER RIGHTS.—The Tribe re-
tains any right or claim to water under
State law for any land taken into trust by
the United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
(3) FORFEITURE OR ABANDONMENT.—Any
water rights that are appurtenant to land
taken into trust by the United States for the
benefit of the Tribe under this section may
not be forfeited or abandoned.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects or modifies any right of the
Tribe or any obligation of the United States
under Public Law 95–375.
SEC. 1008. LA PAZ COUNTY LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means La
Paz County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 5,935 acres of
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement and designated as ‘‘Federal land to
be conveyed’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Proposed La Paz County Land Con-
veyance’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO LA PAZ COUNTY, ARI-
ZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the plan-
ning requirement of sections 202 and 203 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and in ac-
cordance with this section and other applica-
ble law, as soon as practicable after receiv-
ing a request from the County to convey the
Federal land, the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CONVEYANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from the conveyance under paragraph
(1) any Federal land that contains signifi-
cant cultural, environmental, wildlife, or
recreational resources.
(3) PAYMENT OF FAIR MARKET VALUE.—The
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be for
the fair market value of the Federal land to
be conveyed, as determined—
(A) in accordance with the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(B) based on an appraisal that is conducted
in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL ARTI-
FACTS.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall, and as
a condition of any subsequent conveyance,
any subsequent owner shall—
(A) make good faith efforts to avoid dis-
turbing Tribal artifacts;
(B) minimize impacts on Tribal artifacts if
they are disturbed;
(C) coordinate with the Colorado River In-
dian Tribes Tribal Historic Preservation Of-
fice to identify artifacts of cultural and his-
toric significance; and
(D) allow Tribal representatives to rebury
unearthed artifacts at or near where they
were discovered.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The map shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(B) CORRECTIONS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(i) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1); and
(ii) correct any minor errors in the map, an
acreage estimate, or the description of the
Federal land.
(6) WITHDRAWAL.—The Federal land is
withdrawn from the operation of the mining
and mineral leasing laws of the United
States.
(7) COSTS.—As a condition of the convey-
ance of the Federal land under paragraph (1),
the County shall pay—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1201
February 12, 2019
(A) an amount equal to the appraised value
determined in accordance with paragraph
(3)(B); and
(B) all costs related to the conveyance, in-
cluding all surveys, appraisals, and other ad-
ministrative costs associated with the con-
veyance of the Federal land to the County
under paragraph (1).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—The
proceeds from the sale of land under this
subsection shall be—
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
SEC. 1009. LAKE BISTINEAU LAND TITLE STA-
BILITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLAIMANT.—The term ‘‘claimant’’
means any individual, group, or corporation
authorized to hold title to land or mineral
interests in land in the State of Louisiana
with a valid claim to the omitted land, in-
cluding any mineral interests.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lands as Delineated by Original
Survey December 18, 1842 showing the 1969
Meander Line at the 148.6 Elevation Line’’
and dated January 30, 2018.
(3) OMITTED LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
means the land in lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and
13 of sec. 30, T. 16 N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Me-
ridian, comprising a total of approximately
229.72 acres, as depicted on the Map, that—
(i) was in place during the Original Survey;
but
(ii) was not included in the Original Sur-
vey.
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
includes—
(i) Peggy’s Island in lot 1 of sec. 17, T. 16
N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian; and
(ii) Hog Island in lot 1 of sec. 29, T. 16 N.,
R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian.
(4) ORIGINAL SURVEY.—The term ‘‘Original
Survey’’ means the survey of land sur-
rounding Lake Bistineau, Louisiana, con-
ducted by the General Land Office in 1838
and approved by the Surveyor General on
December 8, 1842.
(b) CONVEYANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the first
section of the Act of December 22, 1928 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’) (45
Stat. 1069, chapter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068), except
as provided by this section, the Secretary
shall convey to the claimant the omitted
land, including any mineral interests, that
has been held in good faith and in peaceful,
adverse possession by a claimant or an an-
cestor or grantor of the claimant, under
claim or color of title, based on the Original
Survey.
(2) CONFIRMATION OF TITLE.—The convey-
ance or patent of omitted land to a claimant
under paragraph (1) shall have the effect of
confirming title to the surface and minerals
in the claimant and shall not serve as any
admission by a claimant.
(c) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the conveyance required under
subsection (b) shall be without consider-
ation.
(2) CONDITION.—As a condition of the con-
veyance of the omitted land under sub-
section (b), before making the conveyance,
the Secretary shall recover from the State of
Louisiana any costs incurred by the Sec-
retary relating to any survey, platting, legal
description, or associated activities required
to prepare and issue a patent under that sub-
section.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall file, and make
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the Bureau of Land and
Management, the Map and legal descriptions
of the omitted land to be conveyed under
subsection (b).
SEC. 1010. LAKE FANNIN LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Fannin County, Texas.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lake Fannin Conveyance’’ and
dated November 21, 2013.
(3) NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.—The
term ‘‘National Forest System land’’ means
the approximately 2,025 acres of National
Forest System land generally depicted on
the map.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the National Forest System land for
the fair market value, as determined by the
appraisal under paragraph (3), the Secretary
shall convey the National Forest System
land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the fair market value of the Na-
tional Forest System land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct minor errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the fair market value of the
National Forest System land, as determined
by the appraisal under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the National Forest System
land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall
be determined by a survey satisfactory to
the Secretary and the County.
(7) USE.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall agree
to manage the land conveyed under that sub-
section for public recreational purposes.
(8) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
SEC. 1011. LAND CONVEYANCE AND UTILITY
RIGHT-OF-WAY, HENRY’S LAKE WIL-
DERNESS STUDY AREA, IDAHO.
(a) CONVEYANCE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY AU-
THORIZED.—Notwithstanding section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the Secretary
may—
(1) convey to the owner of a private resi-
dence located at 3787 Valhalla Road in Island
Park, Idaho (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘owner’’), all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to the approxi-
mately 0.5 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 14, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho; and
(2) grant Fall River Electric in Ashton,
Idaho, the right to operate, maintain, and re-
habilitate a right-of-way encumbering ap-
proximately 0.4 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 15, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho, which includes an elec-
tric distribution line and access road, 850′ in
length, 20′ in width.
(b) CONSIDERATION; CONDITIONS.—
(1) LAND DISPOSAL.—The Secretary shall
convey the land under subsection (a)(1) in ac-
cordance with section 203 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1713) and part 2711.3–3 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations. As consideration for
the conveyance the owner shall pay to the
Secretary an amount equal to the fair mar-
ket value as valued by a qualified land ap-
praisal and approved by the Appraisal and
Valuation Services Office.
(2) RIGHT-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
grant the right-of-way granted under sub-
section (a)(2) in accordance with section 205
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1715), and part 2800 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations.
(c) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions in connection with the
conveyance of the land and the grant of the
right-of-way under this section as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate to protect the
interests of the United States.
SEC. 1012. CONVEYANCE TO UKPEAGVIK INUPIAT
CORPORATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Secretary
shall convey to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Cor-
poration all right, title, and interest held by
the United States in and to sand and gravel
deposits underlying the surface estate owned
by the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation with-
in and contiguous to the Barrow gas fields,
and more particularly described as follows:
(1) T. 21 N. R. 16 W., secs. 7, 17–18, 19–21, and
28–29, of the Umiat Meridian.
(2) T. 21 N. R. 17 W., secs. 1–2 and 11–14, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(3) T. 22 N. R. 18 W., secs. 4, 9, and 29–32, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(4) T. 22 N. R. 19 W., secs. 25 and 36, of the
Umiat Meridian.
(b) ENTITLEMENT FULFILLED.—The convey-
ance under this section shall fulfill the enti-
tlement granted to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation under section 12(a) of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.
1611(a)).
(c) COMPLIANCE WITH ENDANGERED SPECIES
ACT OF 1973.—Nothing in this section affects
any requirement, prohibition, or exception
under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
SEC. 1013. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCE TO
CITY OF HYDE PARK, UTAH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on
written request by the City of Hyde Park,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘City’’), the Secretary shall convey, without
consideration, to the City the parcel of pub-
lic land described in subsection (b)(1) for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1202 February 12, 2019
public recreation or other public purposes
consistent with uses allowed under the Act
of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The parcel of public land
referred to in subsection (a) is the approxi-
mately 80-acre parcel identified on the map
entitled ‘‘Hyde Park Land Conveyance Act’’
and dated October 23, 2017.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(c) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the land to be conveyed under
this section shall be determined by a survey
satisfactory to the Secretary.
(d) CONVEYANCE COSTS.—As a condition for
the conveyance under this section, all costs
associated with the conveyance shall be paid
by the City.
SEC. 1014. JUAB COUNTY CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Juab County, Utah.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) NEPHI WORK CENTER CONVEYANCE PAR-
CEL.—The term ‘‘Nephi Work Center convey-
ance parcel’’ means the parcel of approxi-
mately 2.17 acres of National Forest System
land in the County, located at 740 South
Main Street, Nephi, Utah, as depicted as Tax
Lot Numbers #XA00–0545–1111 and #XA00–
0545–2 on the map entitled ‘‘Nephi Plat B’’
and dated May 6, 1981.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF NEPHI WORK CENTER
CONVEYANCE PARCEL, JUAB COUNTY, UTAH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date on which the Secretary receives a
request from the County and subject to valid
existing rights and such terms and condi-
tions as are mutually satisfactory to the
Secretary and the County, including such ad-
ditional terms as the Secretary determines
to be necessary, the Secretary shall convey
to the County without consideration all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Nephi Work Center conveyance
parcel.
(2) COSTS.—Any costs relating to the con-
veyance under paragraph (1), including proc-
essing and transaction costs, shall be paid by
the County.
(3) USE OF LAND.—The land conveyed to the
County under paragraph (1) shall be used by
the County—
(A) to house fire suppression and fuels
mitigation personnel;
(B) to facilitate fire suppression and fuels
mitigation activities; and
(C) for infrastructure and equipment nec-
essary to carry out subparagraphs (A) and
(B).
SEC. 1015. BLACK MOUNTAIN RANGE AND BULL-
HEAD CITY LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means Bullhead
City, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately
1,100 acres of land owned by Bullhead City in
the Black Mountain Range generally de-
picted as ‘‘Bullhead City Land to be Ex-
changed to BLM’’ on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Bullhead City Land Exchange’’ and
dated August 24, 2018.
(4) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 345.2 acres of
land in Bullhead City, Arizona, generally de-
picted as ‘‘Federal Land to be exchanged to
Bullhead City’’ on the Map.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If after December 15, 2020,
the City offers to convey to the Secretary all
right, title, and interest of the City in and to
the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall ac-
cept the offer and simultaneously convey to
the City all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be in a form acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The City shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the City.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the City shall reduce the
amount of land it is requesting from the Fed-
eral Government in order to create an equal
value in accordance with section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). Land that is not ex-
changed because of equalization under this
subparagraph shall remain subject to lease
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(ii) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the City, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the City to the United States for all pur-
poses of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
City may, by mutual agreement—
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the City mutu-
ally agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the Arizona headquarters of the Bureau of
Land Management a copy of all maps re-
ferred to in this section.
SEC. 1016. COTTONWOOD LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Yavapai County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 80
acres of land within the Coconino National
Forest, in Yavapai County, Arizona, gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Coconino National Forest
Parcels ‘Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Cottonwood Land Exchange’’, with
the revision date July 5, 2018\Version 1.
(4) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 369
acres of land in Yavapai County, Arizona,
generally depicted as ‘‘Yavapai County Par-
cels ‘Non-Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the County offers to
convey to the Secretary all right, title, and
interest of the County in and to the non-Fed-
eral land, the Secretary shall accept the
offer and simultaneously convey to the
County all right, title, and interest of the
United States to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be acceptable to the Secretary
and shall conform to the title approval
standards of the Attorney General of the
United States applicable to land acquisitions
by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The County shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the County.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the County shall make a cash
equalization payment to the United States
as necessary to achieve equal value, includ-
ing, if necessary, an amount in excess of that
authorized pursuant to section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1203
February 12, 2019
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 3 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the County, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the County to the United States for all
purposes of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MANAGEMENT OF LAND.—Land acquired
by the Secretary under this section shall be-
come part of the Coconino National Forest
and be managed in accordance with the laws,
rules, and regulations applicable to the Na-
tional Forest System.
(f) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the County
mutually agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the headquarters of the Coconino National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1017. EMBRY-RIDDLE TRI-CITY LAND EX-
CHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 16-
acre parcel of University land identified in
section 3(a) of Public Law 105–363 (112 Stat.
3297).
(2) UNIVERSITY.—The term ‘‘University’’
means Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Univer-
sity, Florida.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN THE COUNTY OF
YAVAPAI, ARIZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, if after the comple-
tion of the appraisal required under sub-
section (c), the University submits to the
Secretary an offer to acquire the rever-
sionary interests of the United States in and
to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall
convey to the University the reversionary
interests of the United States in and to the
non-Federal land for the purpose of
unencumbering the title to the non-Federal
land to enable economic development of the
non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal description of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with this sec-
tion, as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(4) COSTS.—The University shall pay all
costs associated with the conveyance under
paragraph (1), including the costs of the ap-
praisal required under subsection (c), the
costs of any surveys, recording costs, and
other reasonable costs.
(c) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
reversionary interests of the United States
in and to the non-Federal land.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisal shall
be completed in accordance with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As consideration for the
conveyance of the reversionary interests of
the United States in and to the non-Federal
land under this section, the University shall
pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the
appraised value of the interests of the United
States, as determined under subsection (c).
(2) DEPOSIT; USE.—Amounts received under
paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
SEC. 1101. BOLTS DITCH ACCESS.
(a) ACCESS GRANTED.—The Secretary of Ag-
riculture shall permit by special use author-
ization nonmotorized access and use, in ac-
cordance with section 293.6 of title 36, Code
of Federal Regulations, of the Bolts Ditch
Headgate and the Bolts Ditch within the
Holy Cross Wilderness, Colorado, as des-
ignated by Public Law 96–560 (94 Stat. 3265),
for the purposes of the diversion of water and
use, maintenance, and repair of such ditch
and headgate by the Town of Minturn, Colo-
rado, a Colorado Home Rule Municipality.
(b) LOCATION OF FACILITIES.—The Bolts
Ditch headgate and ditch segment referenced
in subsection (a) are as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Bolts Ditch headgate and
Ditch Segment’’ and dated November 2015.
SEC. 1102. CLARIFICATION RELATING TO A CER-
TAIN LAND DESCRIPTION UNDER
THE NORTHERN ARIZONA LAND EX-
CHANGE AND VERDE RIVER BASIN
PARTNERSHIP ACT OF 2005.
Section 104(a)(5) of the Northern Arizona
Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Part-
nership Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–110; 119
Stat. 2356) is amended by inserting before the
period at the end ‘‘, which, notwithstanding
section 102(a)(4)(B), includes the N1⁄2 NE1⁄4
SW1⁄4 SW1⁄4, the N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SE1⁄4 SW1⁄4, and the
N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SW1⁄4 SE1⁄4, sec. 34, Township 22
North, Range 2 East, Gila and Salt River Me-
ridian, Coconino County, Arizona, com-
prising approximately 25 acres’’.
SEC. 1103. FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT
AREA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) Frank Moore has committed his life to
family, friends, his country, and fly fishing;
(2) Frank Moore is a World War II veteran
who stormed the beaches of Normandy along
with 150,000 troops during the D-Day Allied
invasion and was awarded the Chevalier of
the French Legion of Honor for his bravery;
(3) Frank Moore returned home after the
war, started a family, and pursued his pas-
sion of fishing on the winding rivers in Or-
egon;
(4) as the proprietor of the Steamboat Inn
along the North Umpqua River in Oregon for
nearly 20 years, Frank Moore, along with his
wife Jeanne, shared his love of fishing, the
flowing river, and the great outdoors, with
visitors from all over the United States and
the world;
(5) Frank Moore has spent most of his life
fishing the vast rivers of Oregon, during
which time he has contributed significantly
to efforts to conserve fish habitats and pro-
tect river health, including serving on the
State of Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commis-
sion;
(6) Frank Moore has been recognized for
his conservation work with the National
Wildlife Federation Conservationist of the
Year award, the Wild Steelhead Coalition
Conservation Award, and his 2010 induction
into the Fresh Water Fishing Hall of Fame;
and
(7) in honor of the many accomplishments
of Frank Moore, both on and off the river,
approximately 99,653 acres of Forest Service
land in the State of Oregon should be des-
ignated as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore
Wild Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Spe-
cial Management Area Designation Act’’ and
dated June 23, 2016.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term
‘‘Special Management Area’’ means the
Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead
Special Management Area designated by sub-
section (c)(1).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(c) FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA, OR-
EGON.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—The approximately 99,653
acres of Forest Service land in the State, as
generally depicted on the Map, is designated
as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(2) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Special Management Area.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the Special Management Area
shall be administered by the Secretary—
(A) in accordance with all laws (including
regulations) applicable to the National For-
est System; and
(B) in a manner that—
(i) conserves and enhances the natural
character, scientific use, and the botanical,
recreational, ecological, fish and wildlife,
scenic, drinking water, and cultural values
of the Special Management Area;
(ii) maintains and seeks to enhance the
wild salmonid habitat of the Special Man-
agement Area;
(iii) maintains or enhances the watershed
as a thermal refuge for wild salmonids; and
(iv) preserves opportunities for recreation,
including primitive recreation.
(4) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(5) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1204 February 12, 2019
(A) creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Special Management
Area; or
(B) modifies the applicable travel manage-
ment plan for the Special Management Area.
(6) WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Spe-
cial Management Area, consistent with the
purposes of this section, including the use of
aircraft, machinery, mechanized equipment,
fire breaks, backfires, and retardant.
(7) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects
within the Special Management Area in a
manner consistent with—
(A) the purposes described in paragraph (3);
and
(B) the applicable forest plan.
(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this section diminishes any treaty rights
of an Indian Tribe.
(9) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Special Management Area river
segments designated by paragraph (1) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
SEC. 1104. MAINTENANCE OR REPLACEMENT OF
FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES AT
SMITH GULCH.
The authorization of the Secretary of Agri-
culture to maintain or replace facilities or
structures for commercial recreation serv-
ices at Smith Gulch under section 3(a)(24)(D)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(24)(D))—
(1) may include improvements or replace-
ments that the Secretary of Agriculture de-
termines—
(A) are consistent with section 9(b) of the
Central Idaho Wilderness Act of 1980 (16
U.S.C. 1281 note; Public Law 96–312); and
(B) would reduce the impact of the com-
mercial recreation facilities or services on
wilderness or wild and scenic river resources
and values; and
(2) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
to consider including, as appropriate—
(A) hydroelectric generators and associ-
ated electrical transmission facilities;
(B) water pumps for fire suppression;
(C) transitions from propane to electrical
lighting;
(D) solar energy systems;
(E) 6-volt or 12-volt battery banks for
power storage; and
(F) other improvements or replacements
which are consistent with this section that
the Secretary of Agriculture determines ap-
propriate.
SEC. 1105. REPEAL OF PROVISION LIMITING THE
EXPORT OF TIMBER HARVESTED
FROM CERTAIN KAKE TRIBAL COR-
PORATION LAND.
Section 42 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629h) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking subsection (h);
(2) by redesignating subsection (i) as sub-
section (h); and
(3) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated), in
the first sentence, by striking ‘‘and to pro-
vide’’ and all that follows through ‘‘sub-
section (h)’’.
SEC. 1106. DESIGNATION OF FOWLER AND
BOSKOFF PEAKS.
(a) DESIGNATION OF FOWLER PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,498-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.8569° N, by ¥108.0117° W, in
the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(b) DESIGNATION OF BOSKOFF PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,123-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.85549° N, by ¥108.03112° W,
in the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
SEC. 1107. CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST LAND
CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERMITTEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘permittee’’
means a person who, on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, holds a valid permit for use
of a property.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘permittee’’ in-
cludes any heirs, executors, and assigns of
the permittee or interest of the permittee.
(2) PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘property’’
means—
(A) the approximately 1.1 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5005–03, and dated October 2017;
(B) the approximately 4.5 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5116–03, and dated October 2017; and
(C) the approximately 3.9 acres of National
Forest System land in NW1⁄4, sec. 1, T. 10 S.,
R. 15 E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as
generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance
Act of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5039–02, and dated October 2017.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(b) SALE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, during the period described in para-
graph (2), not later than 90 days after the
date on which a permittee submits a request
to the Secretary, the Secretary shall—
(A) accept tender of consideration from
that permittee; and
(B) sell and quitclaim to that permittee all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the property for which the per-
mittee holds a permit.
(2) PERIOD DESCRIBED.—The period referred
to in paragraph (1) is the period beginning on
the date of enactment of this Act and ending
on the date of expiration of the applicable
permit.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The Secretary
may establish such terms and conditions on
the sales of the properties under this section
as the Secretary determines to be in the pub-
lic interest.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—A sale of a property
under this section shall be for cash consider-
ation equal to the market value of the prop-
erty, as determined by the appraisal de-
scribed in subsection (e).
(e) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
plete an appraisal of each property, which
shall—
(A) include the value of any appurtenant
easements; and
(B) exclude the value of any private im-
provements made by a permittee of the prop-
erty before the date of appraisal.
(2) STANDARDS.—An appraisal under para-
graph (1) shall be conducted in accordance
with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions, established in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Relocation As-
sistance and Real Property Acquisition Poli-
cies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.); and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(f) COSTS.—The Secretary shall pay—
(1) the cost of a conveyance of a property
under this section; and
(2) the cost of an appraisal under sub-
section (e).
(g) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—
Any payment received by the Secretary from
the sale of property under this section shall
be deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be
available to the Secretary until expended for
the acquisition of inholdings in national for-
ests in the State of Arizona.
(h) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of each property.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct typographical errors in the
maps and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the office of the Supervisor of the
Coronado National Forest.
SEC. 1108. DESCHUTES CANYON-STEELHEAD
FALLS WILDERNESS STUDY AREA
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, OREGON.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area is modified to exclude
approximately 688 acres of public land, as de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
(WSA) Proposed Boundary Adjustment’’ and
dated September 26, 2018.
(b) EFFECT OF EXCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The public land excluded
from the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area under subsection
(a)—
(A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(B) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any applicable resource management
plan.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the land excluded from the
Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilder-
ness Study Area under subsection (a) to im-
prove fire resiliency and forest health, in-
cluding the conduct of wildfire prevention
and response activities, as appropriate.
(3) OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED
USE.—The Secretary shall not permit off-
road recreational motorized use on the pub-
lic land excluded from the Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
under subsection (a).
SEC. 1109. MAINTENANCE OF FEDERAL MINERAL
LEASES BASED ON EXTRACTION OF
HELIUM.
The first section of the Mineral Leasing
Act (30 U.S.C. 181) is amended in the fifth
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1205
February 12, 2019
paragraph by inserting after ‘‘purchaser
thereof’’ the following: ‘‘, and that extrac-
tion of helium from gas produced from such
lands shall maintain the lease as if the ex-
tracted helium were oil and gas’’.
SEC. 1110. SMALL MINER WAIVERS TO CLAIM
MAINTENANCE FEES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED CLAIMHOLDER.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered claimholder’’ means—
(A) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered AA023149, AA023163,
AA047913, AA047914, AA047915, AA047916,
AA047917, AA047918, and AA047919 (as of De-
cember 29, 2004);
(B) the claimholder of the claim in the
State numbered FF–059315 (as of December
29, 2004);
(C) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–58607, FF–58608, FF–
58609, FF–58610, FF–58611, FF–58613, FF–58615,
FF–58616, FF–58617, and FF–58618 (as of De-
cember 31, 2003); and
(D) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–53988, FF–53989, and FF–
53990 (as of December 31, 1987).
(2) DEFECT.—The term ‘‘defect’’ includes a
failure—
(A) to timely file—
(i) a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application;
(ii) an affidavit of annual labor associated
with a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application; or
(iii) an instrument required under section
314(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)); and
(B) to pay the required application fee for
a small maintenance fee waiver application.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(b) TREATMENT OF COVERED
CLAIMHOLDERS.—Notwithstanding section
10101(d) of the Omnibus Budget Reconcili-
ation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f(d)) and section
314(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(c)), each
covered claimholder shall, during the 60-day
period beginning on the date on which the
covered claimholder receives written notifi-
cation from the Bureau of Land Management
by registered mail of the opportunity, have
the opportunity—
(1)(A) to cure any defect in a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application (includ-
ing the failure to timely file a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application) for any
prior period during which the defect existed;
or
(B) to pay any claim maintenance fees due
for any prior period during which the defect
existed; and
(2) to cure any defect in the filing of any
instrument required under section 314(a) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) (including the
failure to timely file any required instru-
ment) for any prior period during which the
defect existed.
(c) REINSTATEMENT OF CLAIMS DEEMED FOR-
FEITED.—The Secretary shall reinstate any
claim of a covered claimholder as of the date
declared forfeited and void—
(1) under section 10104 of the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C.
28i) for failure to pay the claim maintenance
fee or obtain a valid waiver under section
10101 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f); or
(2) under section 314(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1744(c)) for failure to file any instru-
ment required under section 314(a) of that
Act (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) for any prior period
during which the defect existed if the cov-
ered claimholder—
(A) cures the defect; or
(B) pays the claim maintenance fee under
subsection (b)(1)(B).
SEC. 1111. SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NA-
TIONAL MEMORIAL AND NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Memorial’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial authorized under subsection
(b)(1).
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Monument established by subsection
(d)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
(b) SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NATIONAL
MEMORIAL.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary may
establish a memorial at the Saint Francis
Dam site in the county of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, for the purpose of honoring the vic-
tims of the Saint Francis Dam disaster of
March 12, 1928.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Memorial shall
be—
(A) known as the ‘‘Saint Francis Dam Dis-
aster National Memorial’’; and
(B) managed by the Forest Service.
(3) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may accept,
hold, administer, invest, and spend any gift,
devise, or bequest of real or personal prop-
erty made to the Secretary for purposes of
developing, designing, constructing, and
managing the Memorial.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MEMORIAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress rec-
ommendations regarding—
(A) the planning, design, construction, and
long-term management of the Memorial;
(B) the proposed boundaries of the Memo-
rial;
(C) a visitor center and educational facili-
ties at the Memorial; and
(D) ensuring public access to the Memo-
rial.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In preparing the rec-
ommendations required under paragraph (1),
the Secretary shall consult with—
(A) appropriate Federal agencies;
(B) State, Tribal, and local governments,
including the Santa Clarita City Council;
and
(C) the public.
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF SAINT FRANCIS DAM
DISASTER NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
as a national monument in the State certain
National Forest System land administered
by the Secretary in the county of Los Ange-
les, California, comprising approximately 353
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Saint Francis Dam Disaster
National Monument’’ and dated September
12, 2018, to be known as the ‘‘Saint Francis
Dam Disaster National Monument’’.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Monu-
ment is to conserve and enhance for the ben-
efit and enjoyment of the public the cul-
tural, archaeological, historical, watershed,
educational, and recreational resources and
values of the Monument.
(e) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY WITH RE-
SPECT TO MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the Monument.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The management plan
shall be developed in consultation with—
(i) appropriate Federal agencies;
(ii) State, Tribal, and local governments;
and
(iii) the public.
(C) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing and
implementing the management plan, the
Secretary shall, with respect to methods of
protecting and providing access to the Monu-
ment, consider the recommendations of the
Saint Francis Disaster National Memorial
Foundation, the Santa Clarita Valley Histor-
ical Society, and the Community Hiking
Club of Santa Clarita.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves and en-
hances the cultural and historic resources of
the Monument; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System;
(iii) this section; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(3) USES.—
(A) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—The use
of motorized vehicles within the Monument
may be permitted only—
(i) on roads designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles in the management plan re-
quired under paragraph (1);
(ii) for administrative purposes; or
(iii) for emergency responses.
(B) GRAZING.—The Secretary shall permit
grazing within the Monument, where estab-
lished before the date of enactment of this
Act—
(i) subject to all applicable laws (including
regulations and Executive orders); and
(ii) consistent with the purpose described
in subsection (d)(2).
(4) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(f) CLARIFICATION ON FUNDING.—
(1) USE OF EXISTING FUNDS.—This section
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise
made available to the Secretary.
(2) NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—No additional
funds are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section.
(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
the operation, maintenance, replacement, or
modification of existing water resource,
flood control, utility, pipeline, or tele-
communications facilities that are located
outside the boundary of the Monument, sub-
ject to the special use authorities of the Sec-
retary of Agriculture and other applicable
laws.
SEC. 1112. OWYHEE WILDERNESS AREAS BOUND-
ARY MODIFICATIONS.
(a) BOUNDARY MODIFICATIONS.—
(1) NORTH FORK OWYHEE WILDERNESS.—The
boundary of the North Fork Owyhee Wilder-
ness established by section 1503(a)(1)(D) of
the Omnibus Public Land Management Act
of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is
modified to exclude certain land, as depicted
on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee and Pole Creek
Wilderness Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016;
and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee River Wilder-
ness Big Springs Camp Zoom Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016.
(2) OWYHEE RIVER WILDERNESS.—The bound-
ary of the Owyhee River Wilderness estab-
lished by section 1503(a)(1)(E) of the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1206 February 12, 2019
Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to ex-
clude certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016;
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness Kincaid
Reservoir Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19,
2016; and
(C) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness
Dickshooter Road Zoom Aerial’’ and dated
July 19, 2016.
(3) POLE CREEK WILDERNESS.—The boundary
of the Pole Creek Wilderness established by
section 1503(a)(1)(F) of the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law
111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to exclude
certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016; and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Pole Creek Wilderness Pullout
Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016.
(b) MAPS.—
(1) EFFECT.—The maps referred to in sub-
section (a) shall have the same force and ef-
fect as if included in this Act, except that
the Secretary may correct minor errors in
the maps.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—The maps referred to in
subsection (a) shall be available in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1113. CHUGACH REGION LAND STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CAC.—The term ‘‘CAC’’ means the Chu-
gach Alaska Corporation.
(2) CAC LAND.—The term ‘‘CAC land’’
means land conveyed to CAC pursuant to the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) under which—
(A) both the surface estate and the sub-
surface estate were conveyed to CAC; or
(B)(i) the subsurface estate was conveyed
to CAC; and
(ii) the surface estate or a conservation
easement in the surface estate was acquired
by the State or by the United States as part
of the program.
(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Habitat Protection and Acquisition Pro-
gram of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee
Council.
(4) REGION.—The term ‘‘Region’’ means the
Chugach Region, Alaska.
(5) STUDY.—The term ‘‘study’’ means the
study conducted under subsection (b)(1).
(b) CHUGACH REGION LAND EXCHANGE
STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Agriculture and in consultation with CAC,
shall conduct a study of land ownership and
use patterns in the Region.
(2) STUDY REQUIREMENTS.—The study
shall—
(A) assess the social and economic impacts
of the program, including impacts caused by
split estate ownership patterns created by
Federal acquisitions under the program, on—
(i) the Region; and
(ii) CAC and CAC land;
(B) identify sufficient acres of accessible
and economically viable Federal land that
can be offered in exchange for CAC land iden-
tified by CAC as available for exchange; and
(C) provide recommendations for land ex-
change options with CAC that would—
(i) consolidate ownership of the surface and
mineral estate of Federal land under the pro-
gram; and
(ii) convey to CAC Federal land identified
under subparagraph (B).
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report de-
scribing the results of the study, including—
(1) a recommendation on options for 1 or
more land exchanges; and
(2) detailed information on—
(A) the acres of Federal land identified for
exchange; and
(B) any other recommendations provided
by the Secretary.
SEC. 1114. WILDFIRE TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZA-
TION.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to promote the use of the best available
technology to enhance the effective and
cost-efficient response to wildfires—
(1) to meet applicable protection objec-
tives; and
(2) to increase the safety of—
(A) firefighters; and
(B) the public.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to activities under the Department of
Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to activi-
ties under the Department of the Interior.
(c) UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘unmanned aircraft’’ and ‘‘unmanned
aircraft system’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 44801 of title 49,
United States Code.
(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish
a research, development, and testing pro-
gram, or expand an applicable existing pro-
gram, to assess unmanned aircraft system
technologies, including optionally piloted
aircraft, across the full range of wildland fire
management operations in order to accel-
erate the deployment and integration of
those technologies into the operations of the
Secretaries.
(3) EXPANDING USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS ON WILDFIRES.—In carrying out the
program established under paragraph (2), the
Secretaries, in coordination with the Federal
Aviation Administration, State wildland
firefighting agencies, and other relevant
Federal agencies, shall enter into an agree-
ment under which the Secretaries shall de-
velop consistent protocols and plans for the
use on wildland fires of unmanned aircraft
system technologies, including for the devel-
opment of real-time maps of the location of
wildland fires.
(d) LOCATION SYSTEMS FOR WILDLAND FIRE-
FIGHTERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to the availability of appropriations, the
Secretaries, in coordination with State
wildland firefighting agencies, shall jointly
develop and operate a tracking system (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘system’’)
to remotely locate the positions of fire re-
sources for use by wildland firefighters, in-
cluding, at a minimum, any fire resources
assigned to Federal type 1 wildland fire inci-
dent management teams.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The system shall—
(A) use the most practical and effective
technology available to the Secretaries to
remotely track the location of an active re-
source, such as a Global Positioning System;
(B) depict the location of each fire resource
on the applicable maps developed under sub-
section (c)(3);
(C) operate continuously during the period
for which any firefighting personnel are as-
signed to the applicable Federal wildland
fire; and
(D) be subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary concerned determines nec-
essary for the effective implementation of
the system.
(3) OPERATION.—The Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) before commencing operation of the
system—
(i) conduct not fewer than 2 pilot projects
relating to the operation, management, and
effectiveness of the system; and
(ii) review the results of those pilot
projects;
(B) conduct training, and maintain a cul-
ture, such that an employee, officer, or con-
tractor shall not rely on the system for safe-
ty; and
(C) establish procedures for the collection,
storage, and transfer of data collected under
this subsection to ensure—
(i) data security; and
(ii) the privacy of wildland fire personnel.
(e) WILDLAND FIRE DECISION SUPPORT.—
(1) PROTOCOL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Secretaries shall ensure that
wildland fire management activities con-
ducted by the Secretaries, or conducted
jointly by the Secretaries and State wildland
firefighting agencies, achieve compliance
with applicable incident management objec-
tives in a manner that—
(A) minimizes firefighter exposure to the
lowest level necessary; and
(B) reduces overall costs of wildfire inci-
dents.
(2) WILDFIRE DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in co-
ordination with State wildland firefighting
agencies, shall establish a system or expand
an existing system to track and monitor de-
cisions made by the Secretaries or State
wildland firefighting agencies in managing
wildfires.
(B) COMPONENTS.—The system established
or expanded under subparagraph (A) shall be
able to alert the Secretaries if—
(i) unusual costs are incurred;
(ii) an action to be carried out would like-
ly—
(I) endanger the safety of a firefighter; or
(II) be ineffective in meeting an applicable
suppression or protection goal; or
(iii) a decision regarding the management
of a wildfire deviates from—
(I) an applicable protocol established by
the Secretaries, including the requirement
under paragraph (1); or
(II) an applicable spatial fire management
plan or fire management plan of the Sec-
retary concerned.
(f) SMOKE PROJECTIONS FROM ACTIVE
WILDLAND FIRES.—The Secretaries shall es-
tablish a program, to be known as the
‘‘Interagency Wildland Fire Air Quality Re-
sponse Program’’, under which the Secretary
concerned—
(1) to the maximum extent practicable,
shall assign 1 or more air resource advisors
to a type 1 incident management team man-
aging a Federal wildland fire; and
(2) may assign 1 or more air resource advi-
sors to a type 2 incident management team
managing a wildland fire.
(g) FIREFIGHTER INJURIES DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Federal
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
U.S.C. 2208(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, cat-
egorized by the type of fire’’ after ‘‘such in-
juries and deaths’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1207
February 12, 2019
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘activi-
ties;’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘activi-
ties, including—
‘‘(A) all injuries sustained by a firefighter
and treated by a doctor, categorized by the
type of firefighter;
‘‘(B) all deaths sustained while undergoing
a pack test or preparing for a work capacity;
‘‘(C) all injuries or deaths resulting from
vehicle accidents; and
‘‘(D) all injuries or deaths resulting from
aircraft crashes;’’.
(2) USE OF EXISTING DATA GATHERING AND
ANALYSIS ORGANIZATIONS.—Section 9(b)(3) of
the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act
of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208(b)(3)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, including the Center for Fire-
fighter Injury Research and Safety Trends’’
after ‘‘public and private’’.
(3) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
Section 9 of the Federal Fire Prevention and
Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
The collection, storage, and transfer of any
medical data collected under this section
shall be conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(1) the privacy regulations promulgated
under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(42 U.S.C. 1320d–2 note; Public Law 104–191);
and
‘‘(2) other applicable regulations, including
parts 160, 162, and 164 of title 45, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this subsection).’’.
(h) RAPID RESPONSE EROSION DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion and the Secretary of Commerce, shall
establish and maintain a database, to be
known as the ‘‘Rapid Response Erosion Data-
base’’ (referred to in this subsection as the
‘‘Database’’).
(2) OPEN-SOURCE DATABASE.—
(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretaries shall
make the Database (including the original
source code)—
(i) web-based; and
(ii) available without charge.
(B) COMPONENTS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Database shall provide for—
(i) the automatic incorporation of spatial
data relating to vegetation, soils, and ele-
vation into an applicable map created by the
Secretary concerned that depicts the
changes in land-cover and soil properties
caused by a wildland fire; and
(ii) the generation of a composite map that
can be used by the Secretary concerned to
model the effectiveness of treatments in the
burned area to prevent flooding, erosion, and
landslides under a range of weather sce-
narios.
(3) USE.—The Secretary concerned shall
use the Database, as applicable, in devel-
oping recommendations for emergency sta-
bilization treatments or modifications to
drainage structures to protect values-at-risk
following a wildland fire.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the Database, and any results gen-
erated in using the Database, with any State
or unit of local government.
(i) PREDICTING WHERE WILDFIRES WILL
START.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, the Secretary of Energy, and the Sec-
retary of Commerce, through the capabili-
ties and assets located at the National Lab-
oratories, shall establish and maintain a sys-
tem to predict the locations of future
wildfires for fire-prone areas of the United
States.
(2) COOPERATION; COMPONENTS.—The system
established under paragraph (1) shall be
based on, and seek to enhance, similar sys-
tems in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, including the Fire Danger As-
sessment System.
(3) USE IN FORECASTS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretaries shall use the system estab-
lished under paragraph (1), to the maximum
extent practicable, for purposes of devel-
oping any wildland fire potential forecasts.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the system established under para-
graph (1), and any results generated in using
the system, with any State or unit of local
government.
(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority provided by this section terminates
on the date that is 10 years after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(k) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) requires the Secretary concerned to es-
tablish a new program, system, or database
to replace an existing program, system, or
database that meets the objectives of this
section; or
(2) precludes the Secretary concerned from
using existing or future technology that—
(A) is more efficient, safer, or better meets
the needs of firefighters, other personnel, or
the public; and
(B) meets the objectives of this section.
SEC. 1115. MCCOY FLATS TRAIL SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Uintah County, Utah.
(2) DECISION RECORD.—The term ‘‘Decision
Record’’ means the Decision Record prepared
by the Bureau of Land Management for the
Environmental Assessment for the McCoy
Flats Trail System numbered DOI–BLM–
G010–2012–0057 and dated October 2012.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(4) TRAIL SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘Trail Sys-
tem’’ means the McCoy Flats Trail System
established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the McCoy Flats
Trail System in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Trail System
shall include public land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County,
as described in the Decision Record.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Trail System.
(2) AVAILABILITY; TRANSMITTAL TO CON-
GRESS.—The map and legal description pre-
pared under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) available in appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management; and
(B) transmitted by the Secretary to—
(i) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(3) FORCE AND EFFECT.—The map and legal
description prepared under paragraph (1)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct any clerical or typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Trail System in accordance
with—
(1) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(2) this section; and
(3) other applicable law.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation and coordination
with the County and affected Indian Tribes,
shall prepare a management plan for the
Trail System.
(2) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The management
plan shall be developed with opportunities
for public comment.
(3) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Until the com-
pletion of the management plan, the Trail
System shall be administered in accordance
with the Decision Record.
(4) RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.—In de-
veloping the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall seek to provide for new moun-
tain bike route and trail construction to in-
crease recreational opportunities within the
Trail System, consistent with this section.
(f) USES.—The Trail System shall be used
for nonmotorized mountain bike recreation,
as described in the Decision Record.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On the request of the
State, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
State land, or interests in State land, lo-
cated within the Trail System by purchase
from a willing seller or exchange.
(2) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
Any land acquired under this subsection
shall be administered as part of the Trail
System.
(h) FEES.—No fees shall be charged for ac-
cess to, or use of, the Trail System and asso-
ciated parking areas.
SEC. 1116. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO CER-
TAIN LAWS RELATING TO FEDERAL
LAND IN THE STATE OF NEVADA.
(a) AMENDMENT TO CONVEYANCE OF FED-
ERAL LAND IN STOREY COUNTY, NEVADA.—Sec-
tion 3009(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
‘‘Buck’’ McKeon National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law
113–291; 128 Stat. 3751) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking subparagraphs (B) through
(D) and redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (D); and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘Federal
land’ means the land generally depicted as
‘Federal land’ on the map.
‘‘(C) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Storey County Land Conveyance’
and dated June 6, 2018.’’.
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking
‘‘after completing the mining claim validity
review under paragraph (2)(B), if requested
by the County,’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘each parcel of land located in a
mining townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘any Federal
land’’;
(II) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’; and
(III) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite (including improvements to the
mining townsite), as identified for convey-
ance on the map’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal
land (including improvements)’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by striking the subparagraph designa-
tion and heading and all that follows
through ‘‘With respect’’ in the matter pre-
ceding subclause (I) of clause (i) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(B) VALID MINING CLAIMS.—With respect’’;
and
(iv) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II)
as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(3) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ‘‘a min-
ing townsite conveyed under paragraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1208 February 12, 2019
(3)(B)(i)(II)’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land con-
veyed under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)’’;
(4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘a mining
townsite under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘Federal land under paragraph (2)’’;
(5) in paragraph (6), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘min-
ing townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’;
(6) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘A mining
townsite to be conveyed by the United
States under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘The exterior boundary of the Federal land
to be conveyed by the United States under
paragraph (2)’’;
(7) in paragraph (9)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a mining townsite under
paragraph (3)’’ and inserting ‘‘the Federal
land under paragraph (2)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the mining townsite’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Federal land’’;
(8) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘the ex-
amination’’ and all that follows through the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘the convey-
ance under paragraph (2) should be com-
pleted by not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act.’’;
(9) by striking paragraphs (2) and (8);
(10) by redesignating paragraphs (3)
through (7) and (9) and (10) as paragraphs (2)
through (6) and (7) and (8) respectively; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of
Land Management.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF UTILITY CORRIDOR.—
The Secretary shall realign the utility cor-
ridor established by section 301(a) of the Lin-
coln County Conservation, Recreation, and
Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–424;
118 Stat. 2412) to be aligned as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed
LCCRDA Utility Corridor Realignment’’ and
dated March 14, 2017, by modifying the map
entitled ‘‘Lincoln County Conservation,
Recreation, and Development Act’’ (referred
to in this subsection as the ‘‘Map’’) and
dated October 1, 2004, by—
(1) removing the utility corridor from sec-
tions 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, and 15, T. 7 N., R.
68 E., of the Map; and
(2) redesignating the utility corridor so as
to appear on the Map in—
(A) sections 31, 32, and 33, T. 8 N., R. 68 E.;
(B) sections 4, 5, 6, and 7, T. 7 N., R. 68 E.;
and
(C) sections 1 and 12, T. 7 N., 67 E.
(c) FINAL CORRECTIVE PATENT IN CLARK
COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) VALIDATION OF PATENT.—Patent number
27–2005–0081, issued by the Bureau of Land
Management on February 18, 2005, is af-
firmed and validated as having been issued
pursuant to, and in compliance with, the Ne-
vada-Florida Land Exchange Authorization
Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102 Stat. 52),
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for the benefit of the
desert tortoise, other species, and the habi-
tat of the desert tortoise and other species to
increase the likelihood of the recovery of the
desert tortoise and other species.
(2) RATIFICATION OF RECONFIGURATION.—The
process used by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Land
Management in reconfiguring the land de-
scribed in paragraph (1), as depicted on Ex-
hibit 1–4 of the Final Environmental Impact
Statement for the Planned Development
Project MSHCP, Lincoln County, NV (FWS–
R8–ES–2008–N0136), and the reconfiguration
provided for in special condition 10 of the
Corps of Engineers Permit No. 000005042, are
ratified.
(d) ISSUANCE OF CORRECTIVE PATENT IN LIN-
COLN COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, may issue a corrective patent
for the 7,548 acres of land in Lincoln County,
Nevada, depicted on the map prepared by the
Bureau of Land Management entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Lincoln County Land Reconfigura-
tion’’ and dated January 28, 2016.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—A corrective patent
issued under paragraph (1) shall be treated as
issued pursuant to, and in compliance with,
the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange Author-
ization Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102
Stat. 52).
(e) CONVEYANCE TO LINCOLN COUNTY, NE-
VADA, TO SUPPORT A LANDFILL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
subject to valid existing rights, at the re-
quest of Lincoln County, Nevada, the Sec-
retary shall convey without consideration
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.), to Lincoln County all
right, title and interest of the United States
in and to approximately 400 acres of land in
Lincoln County, Nevada, more particularly
described as follows: T. 11 S., R. 62, E., Sec-
tion 25 E 1⁄2 of W 1⁄2; and W 1⁄2 of E 1⁄2; and E
1⁄2 of SE 1⁄4.
(2) RESERVATION.—The Secretary shall re-
serve to the United States the mineral estate
in any land conveyed under paragraph (1).
(3) USE OF CONVEYED LAND.—The land con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be used by
Lincoln County, Nevada, to provide a suit-
able location for the establishment of a cen-
tralized landfill and to provide a designated
area and authorized facilities to discourage
unauthorized dumping and trash disposal on
environmentally-sensitive public land. Lin-
coln County may not dispose of the land con-
veyed under paragraph (1).
(4) REVERSION.—If Lincoln County, Nevada,
ceases to use any parcel of land conveyed
under paragraph (1) for the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (3)—
(A) title to the parcel shall revert to the
Secretary, at the option of the Secretary;
and
(B) Lincoln County shall be responsible for
any reclamation necessary to restore the
parcel to a condition acceptable to the Sec-
retary.
(f) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS, HIGH SCHELLS
WILDERNESS, AND ARC DOME WILDERNESS
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.—
(1) AMENDMENTS TO THE PAM WHITE WILDER-
NESS ACT OF 2006.—Section 323 of the Pam
White Wilderness Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; 120 Stat. 3031) is amended by striking
subsection (e) and inserting the following:
‘‘(e) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the Mt. Moriah Wil-
derness established under section 2(13) of the
Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted to include—
‘‘(1) the land identified as the ‘Mount
Moriah Wilderness Area’ and ‘Mount Moriah
Additions’ on the map entitled ‘Eastern
White Pine County’ and dated November 29,
2006; and
‘‘(2) the land identified as ‘NFS Lands’ on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilderness
Boundary Adjustment Mt. Moriah Wilder-
ness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.
‘‘(f) HIGH SCHELLS WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the High Schells
Wilderness established under subsection
(a)(11) is adjusted—
‘‘(1) to include the land identified as ‘In-
clude as Wilderness’ on the map entitled
‘McCoy Creek Adjustment’ and dated No-
vember 3, 2014; and
‘‘(2) to exclude the land identified as ‘NFS
Lands’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilder-
ness Boundary Adjustment High Schells Wil-
derness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO THE NEVADA WILDER-
NESS PROTECTION ACT OF 1989.—The Nevada
Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101–195; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 12. ARC DOME BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
‘‘The boundary of the Arc Dome Wilderness
established under section 2(2) is adjusted to
exclude the land identified as ‘Exclude from
Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Arc Dome
Adjustment’ and dated November 3, 2014.’’.
SEC. 1117. ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL RECRE-
ATION AND GEOLOGIC AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area prepared under sub-
section (e)(2)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Northern Utah Lands Management
Act-Overview’’ and dated February 4, 2019.
(3) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the Ashley Karst Na-
tional Recreation and Geologic Area estab-
lished by subsection (b)(1).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the Ashley Karst
National Recreation and Geologic Area in
the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 173,475 acres
of land in the Ashley National Forest, as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to conserve and protect the
watershed, geological, recreational, wildlife,
scenic, natural, cultural, and historic re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
Committee on Natural Resources and the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
map and legal description of the Recreation
Area.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description prepared under paragraph
(1) shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area in accordance
with—
(A) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System, including the For-
est and Rangeland Renewable Resources
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a management plan
for the Recreation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall—
(i) prepare the management plan in con-
sultation and coordination with Uintah
County, Utah, and affected Indian Tribes;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1209
February 12, 2019
(ii) provide for public input in the prepara-
tion of the management plan.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the Recreation Area that
would—
(1) further the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) promote the long-term protection and
management of the watershed and under-
ground karst system of the Recreation Area.
(g) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as needed for
emergency response or administrative pur-
poses, the use of motorized vehicles in the
Recreation Area shall be permitted only on
roads and motorized routes designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) REROUTING.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation, or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(4) OVER SNOW VEHICLES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prohibits the use of snowmobiles and other
over snow vehicles within the Recreation
Area.
(B) WINTER RECREATION USE PLAN.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall under-
take a winter recreation use planning proc-
ess, which shall include opportunities for use
by snowmobiles or other over snow vehicles
in appropriate areas of the Recreation Area.
(5) APPLICABLE LAW.—Activities authorized
under this subsection shall be consistent
with the applicable forest plan and travel
management plan for, and any law (including
regulations) applicable to, the Ashley Na-
tional Forest.
(h) WATER INFRASTRUCTURE.—
(1) EXISTING ACCESS.—The designation of
the Recreation Area shall not affect the abil-
ity of authorized users to access, operate,
and maintain water infrastructure facilities
within the Recreation Area in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into a cooperative agreement with
authorized users and local governmental en-
tities to provide, in accordance with any ap-
plicable law (including regulations)—
(i) access, including motorized access, for
repair and maintenance to water infrastruc-
ture facilities within the Recreation Area,
including Whiterocks Reservoir, subject to
such terms and conditions as the Secretary
determines to be necessary; and
(ii) access and maintenance by authorized
users and local governmental entities for the
continued delivery of water to the Ashley
Valley if water flows cease or become dimin-
ished due to impairment of the karst system,
subject to such terms and conditions as the
Secretary determines to be necessary.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Recreation Area, where established be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act, shall
be allowed to continue, subject to such rea-
sonable regulations, policies, and practices
as the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the Recreation Area;
and
(3) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to the management of fish and
wildlife on Federal land in the State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State, may
authorize wildlife water projects (including
guzzlers) within the Recreation Area.
(l) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the Recreation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(m) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land in the Recreation
Area is withdrawn from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(n) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the Recreation Area for the purposes of im-
proving water quality and reducing risks
from wildfire.
(o) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire treatment op-
erations or restoration operations in the
Recreation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(p) RECREATION FEES.—Except for fees for
improved campgrounds, the Secretary is pro-
hibited from collecting recreation entrance
or recreation use fees within the Recreation
Area.
(q) COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE.—
Nothing in this section affects the continued
use of, and access to, communication infra-
structure (including necessary upgrades)
within the Recreation Area, in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(r) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the Recreation Area.
(2) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
reasonable access to non-Federal land or in-
terests in non-Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the
Recreation Area, including commercial out-
fitting and guide services, are authorized in
accordance with this section and other appli-
cable law (including regulations).
SEC. 1118. JOHN WESLEY POWELL NATIONAL
CONSERVATION AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the Bu-
reau of Land Management map entitled
‘‘Proposed John Wesley Powell National
Conservation Area’’ and dated December 10,
2018.
(2) NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.—The
term ‘‘National Conservation Area’’ means
the John Wesley Powell National Conserva-
tion Area established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the John Wesley
Powell National Conservation Area in the
State of Utah.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The National Con-
servation Area shall consist of approxi-
mately 29,868 acres of public land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Conservation Area are to conserve,
protect, and enhance for the benefit of
present and future generations the nation-
ally significant historic, cultural, natural,
scientific, scenic, recreational, archae-
ological, educational, and wildlife resources
of the National Conservation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and file a map and
legal description of the National Conserva-
tion Area with the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(e) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the National Conservation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources of the National
Conservation Area;
(2) in accordance with—
(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law; and
(3) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(4) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the National Conservation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
prepare the management plan—
(i) in consultation and coordination with
the State of Utah, Uintah County, and af-
fected Indian Tribes; and
(ii) after providing for public input.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the National Conservation Area
as the Secretary determines would further
the purposes for which the National Con-
servation is established.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land or interests in land within the
boundaries of the National Conservation
Area by purchase from a willing seller, dona-
tion, or exchange.
(2) INCORPORATION IN NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated inside the boundary of the National
Conservation Area that is acquired by the
United States after the date of enactment of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1210 February 12, 2019
this Act shall be added to and administered
as part of the National Conservation Area.
(3) STATE LAND.—On request of the Utah
School and Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration and, if practicable, not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
all State-owned land within the boundaries
of the National Conservation Area by ex-
change or purchase, subject to the appropria-
tion of necessary funds.
(h) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
except in cases in which motorized vehicles
are needed for administrative purposes or to
respond to an emergency, the use of motor-
ized vehicles in the National Conservation
Area shall be permitted only on roads des-
ignated in the management plan.
(2) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PRIOR TO
COMPLETION OF MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Prior to
completion of the management plan, the use
of motorized vehicles within the National
Conservation Area shall be permitted in ac-
cordance with the applicable Bureau of Land
Management resource management plan.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the National Conservation Area, where es-
tablished before the date of enactment of
this Act, shall be allowed to continue, sub-
ject to such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary in accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the National Conserva-
tion Area; and
(3) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of Utah with respect to the management of
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the
State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State of
Utah, may authorize wildlife water projects
(including guzzlers) within the National Con-
servation Area.
(l) GREATER SAGE-GROUSE CONSERVATION
PROJECTS.—Nothing in this section affects
the authority of the Secretary to undertake
Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus
urophasianus) conservation projects to main-
tain and improve Greater sage-grouse habi-
tat, including the management of vegetation
through mechanical means, to further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
(m) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the National Con-
servation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(n) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the National Conservation Area.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—The fact that an authorized ac-
tivity or use on land outside the National
Conservation Area can be seen or heard with-
in the National Conservation Area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the Area.
(o) WITHDRAWAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land in the National Con-
servation Area (including any land acquired
after the date of enactment of this Act) is
withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(p) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the National Conservation Area that are
consistent with this section and that further
the purposes of the National Conservation
Area.
(q) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire prevention
and restoration operations in the National
Conservation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(r) RECREATION FEES.—Except for improved
campgrounds, the Secretary is prohibited
from collecting recreation entrance or use
fees within the National Conservation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the Na-
tional Conservation Area, including commer-
cial outfitting and guide services, are au-
thorized in accordance with this section and
other applicable law (including regulations).
(t) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the National Conserva-
tion Area.
(2) REASONABLE ACCESS.—The Secretary
shall provide reasonable access to non-Fed-
eral land or interests in non-Federal land
within the National Conservation Area.
(u) RESEARCH AND INTERPRETIVE MANAGE-
MENT.—The Secretary may establish pro-
grams and projects for the conduct of sci-
entific, historical, cultural, archeological,
and natural studies through the use of public
and private partnerships that further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
SEC. 1119. ALASKA NATIVE VIETNAM ERA VET-
ERANS LAND ALLOTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AVAILABLE FEDERAL LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ means Federal land in the State
that—
(i) is vacant, unappropriated, and unre-
served and is identified as available for selec-
tion under subsection (b)(5); or
(ii) has been selected by, but not yet con-
veyed to—
(I) the State, if the State agrees to volun-
tarily relinquish the selection of the Federal
land for selection by an eligible individual;
or
(II) a Regional Corporation or a Village
Corporation, if the Regional Corporation or
Village Corporation agrees to voluntarily re-
linquish the selection of the Federal land for
selection by an eligible individual.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ does not include any Federal land
in the State that is—
(i)(I) a right-of-way of the TransAlaska
Pipeline; or
(II) an inner or outer corridor of such a
right-of-way;
(ii) withdrawn or acquired for purposes of
the Armed Forces;
(iii) under review for a pending right-of-
way for a natural gas corridor;
(iv) within the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge;
(v) within a unit of the National Forest
System;
(vi) designated as wilderness by Congress;
(vii) within a unit of the National Park
System, a National Preserve, or a National
Monument;
(viii) within a component of the National
Trails System;
(ix) within a component of the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System; or
(x) within the National Petroleum Re-
serve–Alaska.
(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘eligi-
ble individual’’ means an individual who, as
determined by the Secretary in accordance
with subsection (c)(1), is—
(A) a Native veteran—
(i) who served in the Armed Forces during
the period between August 5, 1964, and De-
cember 31, 1971; and
(ii) has not received an allotment made
pursuant to—
(I) the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197,
chapter 2469) (as in effect on December 17,
1971);
(II) section 14(h)(5) of the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(5));
or
(III) section 41 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629g); or
(B) is the personal representative of the es-
tate of a deceased eligible individual de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), who has been
duly appointed in the appropriate Alaska
State court or a registrar has qualified, act-
ing for the benefit of the heirs of the estate
of a deceased eligible individual described in
subparagraph (A).
(3) NATIVE; REGIONAL CORPORATION; VILLAGE
CORPORATION.—The terms ‘‘Native’’, ‘‘Re-
gional Corporation’’, and ‘‘Village Corpora-
tion’’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(5) VETERAN.—The term ‘‘veteran’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.
(b) ALLOTMENTS FOR ELIGIBLE INDIVID-
UALS.—
(1) INFORMATION TO DETERMINE ELIGI-
BILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall pro-
vide to the Secretary a list of all members of
the Armed Forces who served during the pe-
riod between August 5, 1964, and December
31, 1971.
(B) USE.—The Secretary shall use the in-
formation provided under subparagraph (A)
to determine whether an individual meets
the military service requirements under sub-
section (a)(2)(A)(i).
(C) OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, shall conduct outreach,
and provide assistance in applying for allot-
ments, to eligible individuals.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
section, the Secretary shall promulgate reg-
ulations to carry out this subsection.
(3) SELECTION BY ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An eligible individual—
(i) may select 1 parcel of not less than 2.5
acres and not more than 160 acres of avail-
able Federal land; and
(ii) on making a selection pursuant to
clause (i), shall submit to the Secretary an
allotment selection application for the appli-
cable parcel of available Federal land.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1211
February 12, 2019
(B) SELECTION PERIOD.—An eligible indi-
vidual may apply for an allotment during
the 5-year period beginning on the effective
date of the final regulations issued under
paragraph (2).
(4) CONFLICTING SELECTIONS.—If 2 or more
eligible individuals submit to the Secretary
an allotment selection application under
paragraph (3)(A)(ii) for the same parcel of
available Federal land, the Secretary shall—
(A) give preference to the selection appli-
cation received on the earliest date; and
(B) provide to each eligible individual the
selection application of whom is rejected
under subparagraph (A) an opportunity to se-
lect a substitute parcel of available Federal
land.
(5) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation with the State,
Regional Corporations, and Village Corpora-
tions, shall identify Federal land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
available Federal land for allotment selec-
tion in the State by eligible individuals.
(B) CERTIFICATION; SURVEY.—The Secretary
shall—
(i) certify that the available Federal land
identified under subparagraph (A) is free of
known contamination; and
(ii) survey the available Federal land iden-
tified under subparagraph (A) into aliquot
parts and lots, segregating all navigable and
meanderable waters and land not available
for allotment selection.
(C) MAPS.—As soon as practicable after the
date on which available Federal land is iden-
tified under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall submit to Congress, and publish in the
Federal Register, 1 or more maps depicting
the identified available Federal land.
(D) CONVEYANCES.—Any available Federal
land conveyed to an eligible individual under
this paragraph shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) the reservation of minerals to the
United States.
(E) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—It is the intent of
Congress that not later than 1 year after the
date on which an eligible individual submits
an allotment selection application for avail-
able Federal land that meets the require-
ments of this section, as determined by the
Secretary, the Secretary shall issue to the
eligible individual a certificate of allotment
with respect to the available Federal land
covered by the allotment selection applica-
tion, subject to the requirements of subpara-
graph (D).
(c) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE SYSTEM.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) conduct a study to determine whether
any additional Federal lands within units of
the National Wildlife Refuge System in the
State should be made available for allotment
selection; and
(B) report the findings and conclusions of
the study to Congress.
(2) CONTENT OF THE REPORT.—The Sec-
retary shall include in the report required
under paragraph (1)—
(A) the Secretary’s determination whether
Federal lands within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State should
be made available for allotment selection by
eligible individuals; and
(B) identification of the specific areas (in-
cluding maps) within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State that the
Secretary determines should be made avail-
able, consistent with the mission of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System and the spe-
cific purposes for which the unit was estab-
lished, and this subsection.
(3) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In deter-
mining whether Federal lands within units
of the National Wildlife Refuge System in
the State should be made available under
paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall take
into account—
(A) the proximity of the Federal land made
available for allotment selection under sub-
section (b)(5) to eligible individuals;
(B) the proximity of the units of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System in the State
to eligible individuals; and
(C) the amount of additional Federal land
within units of the National Wildlife Refuge
System in the State that the Secretary esti-
mates would be necessary to make allot-
ments available for selection by eligible indi-
viduals.
(4) IDENTIFYING FEDERAL LAND IN UNITS OF
THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM.—In
identifying whether Federal lands within
units of the National Wildlife Refuge System
in the State should be made available for al-
lotment under paragraph (2)(B), the Sec-
retary shall not identify any Federal land in
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem—
(A) the conveyance of which, independ-
ently or as part of a group of allotments—
(i) could significantly interfere with bio-
logical, physical, cultural, scenic, rec-
reational, natural quiet, or subsistence val-
ues of the unit of the National Wildlife Ref-
uge System;
(ii) could obstruct access by the public or
the Fish and Wildlife Service to the resource
values of the unit;
(iii) could trigger development or future
uses in an area that would adversely affect
resource values of the surrounding National
Wildlife Refuge System land;
(iv) could open an area of a unit to new ac-
cess and uses that adversely affect resources
values of the unit; or
(v) could interfere with the management
plan of the unit;
(B) that is located within 300 feet from the
shore of a navigable water body;
(C) that is not consistent with the purposes
for which the unit of the National Wildlife
Refuge System was established;
(D) that is designated as wilderness by
Congress; or
(E) that is within the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge.
(d) LIMITATION.—No Federal land may be
identified for selection or made available for
allotment within a unit of the National
Wildlife Refuge System unless it has been
authorized by an Act of Congress subsequent
to the date of enactment of this Act. Fur-
ther, any proposed conveyance of land within
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem must have been identified by the Sec-
retary in accordance with subsection (c)(4) in
the report to Congress required by sub-
section (c) and include patent provisions
that the land remains subject to the laws
and regulations governing the use and devel-
opment of the Refuge.
SEC. 1120. RED RIVER GRADIENT BOUNDARY
SURVEY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFECTED AREA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
means land along the approximately 116-mile
stretch of the Red River, from its confluence
with the north fork of the Red River on the
west to the 98th meridian on the east.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
does not include the portion of the Red River
within the boundary depicted on the survey
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Township 5 South, Range 14 West,
of the Indian Meridian, Oklahoma, Depend-
ent Resurvey and Survey’’ and dated Feb-
ruary 28, 2006.
(2) GRADIENT BOUNDARY SURVEY METHOD.—
The term ‘‘gradient boundary survey meth-
od’’ means the measurement technique used
to locate the South Bank boundary line in
accordance with the methodology estab-
lished in Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923) (recognizing that the boundary line
along the Red River is subject to change due
to erosion and accretion).
(3) LANDOWNER.—The term ‘‘landowner’’
means any individual, group, association,
corporation, federally recognized Indian
tribe or member of such an Indian tribe, or
other private or governmental legal entity
that owns an interest in land in the affected
area.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
(5) SOUTH BANK.—The term ‘‘South Bank’’
means the water-washed and relatively per-
manent elevation or acclivity (commonly
known as a ‘‘cut bank’’) along the southerly
or right side of the Red River that—
(A) separates the bed of that river from the
adjacent upland, whether valley or hill; and
(B) usually serves, as specified in the fifth
paragraph of Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923)—
(i) to confine the waters within the bed;
and
(ii) to preserve the course of the river.
(6) SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY LINE.—The term
‘‘South Bank boundary line’’ means the
boundary, with respect to title and owner-
ship, between the States of Oklahoma and
Texas identified through the gradient bound-
ary survey method that does not impact or
alter the permanent political boundary line
between the States along the Red River, as
outlined under article II, section B of the
Red River Boundary Compact enacted by the
States and consented to by Congress pursu-
ant to Public Law 106–288 (114 Stat. 919).
(b) SURVEY OF SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY
LINE.—
(1) SURVEY REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
mission a survey to identify the South Bank
boundary line in the affected area.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—The survey shall—
(i) adhere to the gradient boundary survey
method;
(ii) span the length of the affected area;
(iii) be conducted by 1 or more independent
third-party surveyors that are—
(I) licensed and qualified to conduct offi-
cial gradient boundary surveys; and
(II) selected by the Secretary, in consulta-
tion with—
(aa) the Texas General Land Office;
(bb) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(cc) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; and
(iv) subject to the availability of appro-
priations, be completed not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2) APPROVAL OF THE BOUNDARY SURVEY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the survey or a por-
tion of the survey under paragraph (1)(A) is
completed, the Secretary shall submit the
survey for approval to—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(B) TIMING OF APPROVAL.—Not later than 60
days after the date on which each of the
Texas General Land Office, the Oklahoma
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1212 February 12, 2019
Commissioners of the Land Office, in con-
sultation with the attorney general of the
State of Oklahoma, and each affected feder-
ally recognized Indian Tribe notify the Sec-
retary of the approval of the boundary sur-
vey or a portion of the survey by the applica-
ble office or federally recognized Indian
Tribe, the Secretary shall determine whether
to approve the survey or portion of the sur-
vey, subject to subparagraph (D).
(C) SUBMISSION OF PORTIONS OF SURVEY FOR
APPROVAL.—As portions of the survey are
completed, the Secretary may submit the
completed portions of the survey for ap-
proval under subparagraph (A).
(D) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—The Secretary
shall only approve the survey, or a portion of
the survey, that has the written approval of
each of—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(c) SURVEY OF INDIVIDUAL PARCELS.—Sur-
veys of individual parcels in the affected
area shall be conducted in accordance with
the boundary survey approved under sub-
section (b)(2).
(d) NOTICE AND AVAILABILITY OF SURVEY.—
Not later than 60 days after the date on
which the boundary survey is approved under
subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall—
(1) publish notice of the approval of the
survey in—
(A) the Federal Register; and
(B) 1 or more local newspapers; and
(2) on request, furnish to any landowner a
copy of—
(A) the survey; and
(B) any field notes relating to—
(i) the individual parcel of the landowner;
or
(ii) any individual parcel adjacent to the
individual parcel of the landowner.
(e) EFFECT OF SECTION.—Nothing in this
section—
(1) modifies any interest of the State of
Oklahoma or Texas, or the sovereignty,
property, or trust rights of any federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribe, relating to land lo-
cated north of the South Bank boundary
line, as established by the survey;
(2) modifies any land patented under the
Act of December 22, 1928 (45 Stat. 1069, chap-
ter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068) (commonly known as
the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’), before the date of
enactment of this Act;
(3) modifies or supersedes the Red River
Boundary Compact enacted by the States of
Oklahoma and Texas and consented to by
Congress pursuant to Public Law 106–288 (114
Stat. 919);
(4) creates or reinstates any Indian res-
ervation or any portion of such a reserva-
tion;
(5) modifies any interest or any property or
trust rights of any individual Indian allot-
tee; or
(6) alters any valid right of the State of
Oklahoma or the Kiowa, Comanche, or
Apache Indian tribes to the mineral interest
trust fund established under the Act of June
12, 1926 (44 Stat. 740, chapter 572).
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000.
SEC. 1121. SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT IM-
PLEMENTATION.
(a) EXCHANGE OF COAL PREFERENCE RIGHT
LEASE APPLICATIONS.—
(1) DEFINITION OF BIDDING RIGHT.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘bidding right’’ means
an appropriate legal instrument or other
written documentation, including an entry
in an account managed by the Secretary,
issued or created under subpart 3435 of title
43, Code of Federal Regulations, that may be
used—
(A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50
percent of a bonus bid for a coal lease sale
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.); or
(B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent
of any rental or royalty payments due under
any Federal coal lease.
(2) USE OF BIDDING RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary retires a
coal preference right lease application under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.) by issuing a bidding right in exchange
for the relinquishment of the coal preference
right lease application, the bidding right
subsequently may be used in lieu of 50 per-
cent of the amount owed for any monetary
payment of—
(i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
(ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal
lease.
(B) PAYMENT CALCULATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall cal-
culate a payment of amounts owed to a rel-
evant State under section 35(a) of the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)) based on
the combined value of the bidding rights and
amounts received.
(ii) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Except as pro-
vided in this paragraph, for purposes of cal-
culating the payment of amounts owed to a
relevant State under clause (i) only, a bid-
ding right shall be considered amounts re-
ceived.
(C) REQUIREMENT.—The total number of
bidding rights issued by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) before October 1, 2029, shall
not exceed the number of bidding rights that
reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
(3) SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
shall make payments to the relevant State
under paragraph (2) from monetary pay-
ments received by the Secretary when bid-
ding rights are exercised under this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS.—A payment
to a State under this subsection shall be
treated as a payment under section 35(a) of
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
(5) TRANSFERABILITY; LIMITATION.—
(A) TRANSFERABILITY.—A bidding right
issued for a coal preference right lease appli-
cation under the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be fully transferable
to any other person.
(B) NOTIFICATION OF SECRETARY.—A person
who transfers a bidding right shall notify the
Secretary of the transfer by any method de-
termined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
(C) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A bidding right issued
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) shall terminate on the expiration of
the 7-year period beginning on the date the
bidding right is issued.
(ii) TOLLING OF PERIOD.—The 7-year period
described in clause (i) shall be tolled during
any period in which exercise of the bidding
right is precluded by temporary injunctive
relief granted under, or administrative, leg-
islative, or judicial suspension of, the Fed-
eral coal leasing program.
(6) DEADLINE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an existing settlement
of a coal preference right lease application
has not been implemented as of the date of
enactment of this Act, not later than 180
days after that date of enactment, the Sec-
retary shall complete the bidding rights
valuation process in accordance with the
terms of the settlement.
(B) DATE OF VALUATION.—For purposes of
the valuation process under subparagraph
(A), the market price of coal shall be deter-
mined as of the date of the settlement.
(b) CERTAIN LAND SELECTIONS OF THE NAV-
AJO NATION.—
(1) CANCELLATION OF CERTAIN SELECTIONS.—
The land selections made by the Navajo Na-
tion pursuant to Public Law 93–531 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Set-
tlement Act of 1974’’) (88 Stat. 1712) that are
depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Navajo-Hopi
Land Settlement Act Selected Lands’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
(2) AUTHORIZATION FOR NEW SELECTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B), (C), and (D) and paragraph (3), the Nav-
ajo Nation may make new land selections in
accordance with the Act referred to in para-
graph (1) to replace the land selections can-
celled under that paragraph.
(B) ACREAGE CAP.—The total acreage of
land selected under subparagraph (A) shall
not exceed 15,000 acres of land.
(C) EXCLUSIONS.—The following land shall
not be eligible for selection under subpara-
graph (A):
(i) Land within a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System.
(ii) Land within—
(I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
(II) the Fossil Forest Research Natural
Area; or
(III) a special management area or area of
critical environmental concern identified in
a land use plan developed under section 202
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) or the Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Materials Act of 1947’’) (30
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) as of the date of the selec-
tion.
(iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(v) Land identified as ‘‘Parcels Excluded
from Selection’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Par-
cels excluded for selection under the San
Juan County Settlement Implementation
Act’’ and dated December 14, 2018.
(D) DEADLINE.—Not later than 7 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Nav-
ajo Nation shall make all selections under
subparagraph (A).
(E) WITHDRAWAL.—Any land selected by
the Navajo Nation under subparagraph (A)
shall be withdrawn from disposal, leasing,
and development until the date on which the
selected land is placed into trust for the Nav-
ajo Nation.
(3) EQUAL VALUE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
acreage limitation in the second proviso of
section 11(c) of Public Law 93–531 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement
Act of 1974’’) (25 U.S.C. 640d–10(c)) and sub-
ject to paragraph (2)(B), the value of the land
selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancellation under
paragraph (1) shall be equal, based on ap-
praisals conducted under subparagraph (B).
(B) APPRAISALS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the land se-
lected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancelled under para-
graph (1) shall be determined by appraisals
conducted in accordance with—
(I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(II) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(ii) TIMING.—
(I) LAND SUBJECT TO SELECTIONS CAN-
CELLED.—Not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act, the appraisal
under clause (i) of the land subject to selec-
tions cancelled under paragraph (1) shall be
completed.
(II) NEW SELECTIONS.—The appraisals under
clause (i) of the land selected under para-
graph (2)(A) shall be completed as the Navajo
Nation finalizes those land selections.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1213
February 12, 2019
(4) BOUNDARY.—For purposes of this sub-
section and the Act referred to in paragraph
(1), the present boundary of the Navajo Res-
ervation is depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Navajo Nation Boundary’’ and dated No-
vember 16, 2015.
(c) DESIGNATION OF AH-SHI-SLE-PAH WIL-
DERNESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 7,242 acres of land as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Juan County Wilderness Designations’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, is designated as wilder-
ness and as a component of the National Wil-
derness Preservation System, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness’’
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Wil-
derness’’).
(2) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Wilderness shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement in accordance with this subsection
and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the Wilderness to cre-
ate a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Wilderness.
(ii) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the Wilder-
ness shall not preclude the conduct of the ac-
tivities or uses outside the boundary of the
Wilderness.
(C) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the Wil-
derness that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(i) become part of the Wilderness; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(II) this subsection; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(D) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
Wilderness, where established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with—
(i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(3) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for the purposes of sec-
tion 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the land within the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this subsection has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation and is no
longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)).
(d) EXPANSION OF BISTI/DE-NA-ZIN WILDER-
NESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is designated as wil-
derness and as a component of the National
Wilderness Preservation System certain Fed-
eral land comprising approximately 2,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘San Juan County Wilderness Designa-
tions’’ and dated April 2, 2015, which is incor-
porated in and shall be considered to be a
part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the land designated as wilder-
ness by paragraph (1) shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement (referred to in this subsection as
the ‘‘Director’’), in accordance with—
(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
(3) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the land as wilderness
by paragraph (1) to create a protective pe-
rimeter or buffer zone around that land.
(B) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the land des-
ignated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall
not preclude the conduct of the activities or
uses outside the boundary of that land.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the land
designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
that is acquired by the United States shall—
(A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wil-
derness; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211);
(iii) this subsection; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
land designated as wilderness by paragraph
(1), where established before the date of en-
actment of this Act, shall be allowed to con-
tinue in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(e) ROAD MAINTENANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary, acting through the Director
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall ensure
that L–54 between I–40 and Alamo, New Mex-
ico, is maintained in a condition that is safe
for motorized use.
(2) USE OF FUNDS.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary and the Director of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may not require
any Indian Tribe to use any funds—
(A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
(B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant
to a contract under the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
(3) ROAD UPGRADE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section requires the Secretary or any Indian
Tribe to upgrade the condition of L–54 as of
the date of enactment of this Act.
(B) WRITTEN AGREEMENT.—An upgrade to
L–54 may not be made without the written
agreement of the Pueblo of Laguna.
(4) INVENTORY.—Nothing in this subsection
requires L–54 to be placed on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory.
SEC. 1122. RIO PUERCO WATERSHED MANAGE-
MENT PROGRAM.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.—Section 401(b)(4)
of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Pub-
lic Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4147; 123 Stat. 1108) is
amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009’’ and inserting
‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 401(e) of division I of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4148; 123 Stat.
1108) is amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Natural Resources Management
Act’’.
SEC. 1123. ASHLEY SPRINGS LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) CONVEYANCE.—Subject to valid existing
rights, at the request of Uintah County,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘County’’), the Secretary shall convey to the
County, without consideration, the approxi-
mately 791 acres of public land administered
by the Bureau of Land Management, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Ashley
Springs Property’’ and dated February 4,
2019, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The conveyed land shall be managed as
open space to protect the watershed and un-
derground karst system and aquifer.
(2) Mining or any form of mineral develop-
ment on the conveyed land is prohibited.
(3) The County shall allow for non-motor-
ized public recreation access on the conveyed
land.
(4) No new roads may be constructed on the
conveyed land.
(b) REVERSION.—A conveyance under sub-
section (a) shall include a reversionary
clause to ensure that management of the
land described in that subsection shall revert
to the Secretary if the land is no longer
being managed in accordance with that sub-
section.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1201. ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS
CONSERVATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
National Monument established by Presi-
dential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed. Reg.
30431).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New Mexico.
(3) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) ADEN LAVA FLOW WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 27,673 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Aden
Lava Flow Wilderness’’.
(B) BROAD CANYON WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 13,902 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Broad Canyon
Wilderness’’.
(C) CINDER CONE WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana County comprising ap-
proximately 16,935 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Cinder Cone
Wilderness’’.
(D) EAST POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDER-
NESS.—Certain land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in Doña Ana and
Luna counties comprising approximately
12,155 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1214 February 12, 2019
known as the ‘‘East Potrillo Mountains Wil-
derness’’.
(E) MOUNT RILEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana and Luna counties
comprising approximately 8,382 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Mount
Riley Wilderness’’.
(F) ORGAN MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 19,916 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016, which shall be known as the ‘‘Organ
Mountains Wilderness’’, the boundary of
which shall be offset 400 feet from the center-
line of Dripping Springs Road in T. 23 S., R.
04 E., sec. 7, New Mexico Principal Meridian.
(G) POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana and Luna
counties comprising approximately 105,085
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Wilder-
ness’’.
(H) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 16,776 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Robledo Moun-
tains Wilderness’’.
(I) SIERRA DE LAS UVAS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 11,114 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Sierra de las
Uvas Wilderness’’.
(J) WHITETHORN WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana and Luna counties com-
prising approximately 9,616 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the
‘‘Whitethorn Wilderness’’.
(2) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the maps and legal de-
scriptions.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered by the Secretary—
(A) as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section; and
(ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(I) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the effective date of that Act shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(II) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of a wilder-
ness area that is acquired by the United
States shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area
within the boundaries of which the land is
located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(6) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subsection restricts or precludes—
(A) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(B) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the wilderness areas; or
(C) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the wilderness
areas.
(7) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates a protective perimeter or
buffer zone around any wilderness area.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside any wilderness area can be seen
or heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(8) PARAGLIDING.—The use of paragliding
within areas of the East Potrillo Mountains
Wilderness designated by paragraph (1)(D) in
which the use has been established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with section
4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1133(d)(1)), subject to any terms and condi-
tions that the Secretary determines to be
necessary.
(9) CLIMATOLOGIC DATA COLLECTION.—Sub-
ject to such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may prescribe, nothing in this section
precludes the installation and maintenance
of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatologic
collection devices in wilderness areas if the
facilities and access to the facilities are es-
sential to flood warning, flood control, or
water reservoir operation activities.
(10) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to fish and wildlife located on
public land in the State, except that the Sec-
retary, after consultation with the New Mex-
ico Department of Game and Fish, may des-
ignate zones where, and establish periods
during which, no hunting or fishing shall be
permitted for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
law.
(11) WITHDRAWALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the wilder-
ness areas and any land or interest in land
that is acquired by the United States in the
wilderness areas after the date of enactment
of this Act is withdrawn from—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(iii) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(B) PARCEL B.—The approximately 6,498
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
B’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn for
purposes of the issuance of oil and gas pipe-
line or road rights-of-way.
(C) PARCEL C.—The approximately 1,297
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
C’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn from
disposal under the Act of June 14, 1926 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public
Purposes Act’’) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(D) PARCEL D.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall allow for the conduct of certain
recreational activities on the approximately
2,035 acres of land generally depicted as
‘‘Parcel D’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016 (referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘parcel’’), which is a portion of the public
land withdrawn and reserved for military
purposes by Public Land Order 833 dated May
21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 4822).
(ii) OUTDOOR RECREATION PLAN.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall develop a plan for public outdoor
recreation on the parcel that is consistent
with the primary military mission of the
parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the plan
under subclause (I), the Secretary of the
Army shall ensure, to the maximum extent
practicable, that outdoor recreation activi-
ties may be conducted on the parcel, includ-
ing hunting, hiking, wildlife viewing, and
camping.
(iii) CLOSURES.—The Secretary of the
Army may close the parcel or any portion of
the parcel to the public as the Secretary of
the Army determines to be necessary to pro-
tect—
(I) public safety; or
(II) the safety of the military members
training on the parcel.
(iv) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION; WITHDRAWAL.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—On a determination by the
Secretary of the Army that military train-
ing capabilities, personnel safety, and instal-
lation security would not be hindered as a
result of the transfer to the Secretary of ad-
ministrative jurisdiction over the parcel, the
Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the
Secretary administrative jurisdiction over
the parcel.
(II) WITHDRAWAL.—On transfer of the par-
cel under subclause (I), the parcel shall be—
(aa) under the jurisdiction of the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management; and
(bb) withdrawn from—
(AA) entry, appropriation, or disposal
under the public land laws;
(BB) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(CC) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(III) RESERVATION.—On transfer under sub-
clause (I), the parcel shall be reserved for
management of the resources of, and mili-
tary training conducted on, the parcel in ac-
cordance with a memorandum of under-
standing entered into under clause (v).
(v) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELAT-
ING TO MILITARY TRAINING.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If, after the transfer of the
parcel under clause (iv)(I), the Secretary of
the Army requests that the Secretary enter
into a memorandum of understanding, the
Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Secretary of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1215
February 12, 2019
Army providing for the conduct of military
training on the parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—The memorandum of
understanding entered into under subclause
(I) shall—
(aa) address the location, frequency, and
type of training activities to be conducted on
the parcel;
(bb) provide to the Secretary of the Army
access to the parcel for the conduct of mili-
tary training;
(cc) authorize the Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Army to close the parcel or a
portion of the parcel to the public as the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Army de-
termines to be necessary to protect—
(AA) public safety; or
(BB) the safety of the military members
training; and
(dd) to the maximum extent practicable,
provide for the protection of natural, his-
toric, and cultural resources in the area of
the parcel.
(vi) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subparagraph restricts or precludes—
(I) low-level overflights of military aircraft
over the parcel, including military over-
flights that can be seen or heard within the
parcel;
(II) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the parcel; or
(III) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the parcel.
(12) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Federal land described in subpara-
graph (B) in a manner that preserves the
character of the land for the future inclusion
of the land in the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System.
(B) LAND DESCRIPTION.—The land referred
to in subparagraph (A) is certain land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 100 acres as gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Lookout Peak Commu-
nication Site’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(C) USES.—The Secretary shall permit only
such uses on the land described in subpara-
graph (B) as were permitted on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(13) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—Congress finds that, for purposes of
section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the public land in Doña Ana County adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management
not designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
or described in paragraph (12)—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(14) PRIVATE LAND.—In accordance with
section 5 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1134), the Secretary shall ensure adequate ac-
cess to non-Federal land located within the
boundary of a wilderness area.
(c) BORDER SECURITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section—
(A) prevents the Secretary of Homeland
Security from undertaking law enforcement
and border security activities, in accordance
with section 4(c) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(c)), within the wilderness areas,
including the ability to use motorized access
within a wilderness area while in pursuit of
a suspect;
(B) affects the 2006 Memorandum of Under-
standing among the Department of Home-
land Security, the Department of the Inte-
rior, and the Department of Agriculture re-
garding cooperative national security and
counterterrorism efforts on Federal land
along the borders of the United States; or
(C) prevents the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity from conducting any low-level over-
flights over the wilderness areas that may be
necessary for law enforcement and border se-
curity purposes.
(2) WITHDRAWAL AND ADMINISTRATION OF
CERTAIN AREA.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—The area identified as
‘‘Parcel A’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, is withdrawn in accordance with sub-
section (b)(11)(A).
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—Except as provided
in subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary
shall administer the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) in a manner that, to the max-
imum extent practicable, protects the wil-
derness character of the area.
(C) USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.—The use of
motor vehicles, motorized equipment, and
mechanical transport shall be prohibited in
the area described in subparagraph (A) ex-
cept as necessary for—
(i) the administration of the area (includ-
ing the conduct of law enforcement and bor-
der security activities in the area); or
(ii) grazing uses by authorized permittees.
(D) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph precludes the Secretary from
allowing within the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) the installation and mainte-
nance of communication or surveillance in-
frastructure necessary for law enforcement
or border security activities.
(3) RESTRICTED ROUTE.—The route excluded
from the Potrillo Mountains Wilderness
identified as ‘‘Restricted—Administrative
Access’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
shall be—
(A) closed to public access; but
(B) available for administrative and law
enforcement uses, including border security
activities.
(d) ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—In preparing and
implementing the management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall include a wa-
tershed health assessment to identify oppor-
tunities for watershed restoration.
(2) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED STATE
TRUST LAND AND INTERESTS IN STATE TRUST
LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the State trust land de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) that is acquired
by the United States shall—
(i) become part of the Monument; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) Presidential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed.
Reg. 30431);
(II) this section; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(B) DESCRIPTION OF STATE TRUST LAND.—
The State trust land referred to in subpara-
graph (A) is the State trust land in T. 22 S.,
R 01 W., New Mexico Principal Meridian and
T. 22 S., R. 02 W., New Mexico Principal Me-
ridian.
(3) LAND EXCHANGES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(C) through (F), the Secretary shall attempt
to enter into an agreement to initiate an ex-
change under section 2201.1 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations (or successor regula-
tions), with the Commissioner of Public
Lands of New Mexico, by the date that is 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, to provide for a conveyance to the State
of all right, title, and interest of the United
States in and to Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land in the State identified under sub-
paragraph (B) in exchange for the convey-
ance by the State to the Secretary of all
right, title, and interest of the State in and
to parcels of State trust land within the
boundary of the Monument identified under
that subparagraph or described in paragraph
(2)(B).
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF LAND FOR EX-
CHANGE.—The Secretary and the Commis-
sioner of Public Lands of New Mexico shall
jointly identify the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land and State trust land eligible for
exchange under this paragraph, the exact
acreage and legal description of which shall
be determined by surveys approved by the
Secretary and the New Mexico State Land
Office.
(C) APPLICABLE LAW.—A land exchange
under subparagraph (A) shall be carried out
in accordance with section 206 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1716).
(D) CONDITIONS.—A land exchange under
subparagraph (A) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms as the Secretary and the
State shall establish.
(E) VALUATION, APPRAISALS, AND EQUALI-
ZATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Bureau of
Land Management land and the State trust
land to be conveyed in a land exchange under
this paragraph—
(I) shall be equal, as determined by ap-
praisals conducted in accordance with clause
(ii); or
(II) if not equal, shall be equalized in ac-
cordance with clause (iii).
(ii) APPRAISALS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Bureau of Land Man-
agement land and State trust land to be ex-
changed under this paragraph shall be ap-
praised by an independent, qualified ap-
praiser that is agreed to by the Secretary
and the State.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—An appraisal under
subclause (I) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(aa) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(bb) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(iii) EQUALIZATION.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If the value of the Bureau
of Land Management land and the State
trust land to be conveyed in a land exchange
under this paragraph is not equal, the value
may be equalized by—
(aa) making a cash equalization payment
to the Secretary or to the State, as appro-
priate, in accordance with section 206(b) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)); or
(bb) reducing the acreage of the Bureau of
Land Management land or State trust land
to be exchanged, as appropriate.
(II) CASH EQUALIZATION PAYMENTS.—Any
cash equalization payments received by the
Secretary under subclause (I)(aa) shall be—
(aa) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(bb) used in accordance with that Act.
(F) LIMITATION.—No exchange of land shall
be conducted under this paragraph unless
mutually agreed to by the Secretary and the
State.
SEC. 1202. CERRO DEL YUTA AND RÍO SAN ANTO-
NIO WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Rı́o Grande del Norte National
Monument Proposed Wilderness Areas’’ and
dated July 28, 2015.
(2) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF CERRO DEL YUTA AND
RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS AREAS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1216 February 12, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the Rı́o Grande del Norte
National Monument are designated as wil-
derness and as components of the National
Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) CERRO DEL YUTA WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Taos County, New Mexico,
comprising approximately 13,420 acres as
generally depicted on the map, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Cerro del Yuta Wilder-
ness’’.
(B) RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Rı́o Arriba County, New
Mexico, comprising approximately 8,120
acres, as generally depicted on the map,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness’’.
(2) MANAGEMENT OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
Subject to valid existing rights, the wilder-
ness areas shall be administered in accord-
ance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.) and this section, except that with re-
spect to the wilderness areas designated by
this section—
(A) any reference to the effective date of
the Wilderness Act shall be considered to be
a reference to the date of enactment of this
Act; and
(B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(3) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of the wilderness
areas that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area in
which the land is located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(4) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(5) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the wilderness areas.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside a wilderness area can be seen or
heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(6) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for purposes of section
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the
public land within the San Antonio Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this section—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with
this section.
(7) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file the map and legal de-
scriptions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the legal description
and map.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(8) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(9) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of New Mexico with respect to fish and wild-
life located on public land in the State.
(10) WITHDRAWALS.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, any Federal land within the wil-
derness areas designated by paragraph (1),
including any land or interest in land that is
acquired by the United States after the date
of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn
from—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(11) TREATY RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion enlarges, diminishes, or otherwise modi-
fies any treaty rights.
SEC. 1203. METHOW VALLEY, WASHINGTON, FED-
ERAL LAND WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Map’’ means the Forest Service
map entitled ‘‘Methow Headwaters With-
drawal Proposal Legislative Map’’ and dated
May 24, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 340,079 acres of
Federal land and interests in the land lo-
cated in the Okanogan-Wenatchee National
Forest within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ is withdrawn
from all forms of—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) disposition under the mineral leasing
and geothermal leasing laws.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ that is acquired
by the United States after the date of enact-
ment of this Act shall, on acquisition, be im-
mediately withdrawn in accordance with this
section.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be kept on file and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1204. EMIGRANT CREVICE WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘map’’ means the map entitled
‘‘Emigrant Crevice Proposed Withdrawal
Area’’ and dated November 10, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, the National Forest System land
and interests in the National Forest System
land, as depicted on the map, is withdrawn
from—
(1) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(2) disposition under all laws pertaining to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the map
that is acquired by the United States after
the date of enactment of this Act shall, on
acquisition, be immediately withdrawn in
accordance with this section.
(d) MAP.—
(1) SUBMISSION OF MAP.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file
the map with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map filed under
paragraph (1) shall have the same force and
effect as if included in this section, except
that the Secretary of Agriculture may cor-
rect clerical and typographical errors in the
map.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map filed
under paragraph (1) shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management.
(e) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
any recreational use, including hunting or
fishing, that is authorized on land within the
area depicted on the map under applicable
law as of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1205. OREGON WILDLANDS.
(a) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER ADDITIONS, DES-
IGNATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—
(1) ADDITIONS TO ROGUE WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (5) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(5) ROGUE, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The segment of the river
extending from the mouth of the Applegate
River downstream to the Lobster Creek
Bridge, to be administered by the Secretary
of the Interior or the Secretary of Agri-
culture, as agreed to by the Secretaries of
the Interior and Agriculture or as directed
by the President.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONS.—In addition to the seg-
ment described in subparagraph (A), there
are designated the following segments in the
Rogue River:
‘‘(i) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately
6.8-mile segment of Kelsey Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) EAST FORK KELSEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from headwaters downstream to the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8
W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.6-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian,
to the confluence with Kelsey Creek, as a
wild river.
‘‘(iii) WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 1.6-mile segment of Whisky Creek
from the confluence of the East Fork and
West Fork to the south boundary of the non-
Federal land in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 17, Wil-
lamette Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Whisky Creek from road 33–
8–23 to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) EAST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
from its headwaters to Wild Rogue Wilder-
ness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.6-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1217
February 12, 2019
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11, Willamette Merid-
ian, downstream to road 33–8–26 crossing, as
a wild river.
‘‘(III) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 0.3-mile segment of East Fork Whis-
ky Creek from road 33–8–26 to the confluence
with Whisky Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(v) WEST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 4.8-mile segment of West Fork
Whisky Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with the East Fork Whisky
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.5-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from its
headwaters to road 34–9–17.1, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.8-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from road
34–9–17.1 to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(vii) EAST FORK BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from its headwaters to road 34–8–36, as a sce-
nic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.7-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from road 34–8–36 to the confluence with Big
Windy Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(viii) LITTLE WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from its
headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 33, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.9-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ix) HOWARD CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Howard Creek from its head-
waters to road 34–9–34, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 6.9-
mile segment of Howard Creek from 0.1 miles
downstream of road 34–9–34 to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(III) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Anna Creek from its head-
waters to the confluence with Howard Creek,
as a wild river.
‘‘(x) MULE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Mule Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 7.8-
mile segment of Mule Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xi) MISSOURI CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from its
headwaters downstream to the Wild Rogue
Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec.
24, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.6-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 24, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xii) JENNY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 28,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.8-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 28, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiii) RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 9, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 9, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiv) EAST FORK RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
its headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.3-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34
S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willamette Meridian, to
the confluence with Rum Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xv) WILDCAT CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Wildcat Creek from its
headwaters downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xvi) MONTGOMERY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 1.8-mile segment of Montgomery
Creek from its headwaters downstream to
the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.
‘‘(xvii) HEWITT CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 19, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 19, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xviii) BUNKER CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 6.6-mile segment of Bunker Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xix) DULOG CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from its head-
waters to 0.1 miles downstream of road 34–8–
36, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.0-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from road 34–8–
36 to the confluence with the Rogue River, as
a wild river.
‘‘(xx) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Quail Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxi) MEADOW CREEK.—The approximately
4.1-mile segment of Meadow Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxii) RUSSIAN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 2.5-mile segment of Russian Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 20, Willamette Merid-
ian, to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiii) ALDER CREEK.—The approximately
1.2-mile segment of Alder Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiv) BOOZE CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Booze Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxv) BRONCO CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Bronco Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxvi) COPSEY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Copsey Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxvii) CORRAL CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.5-mile segment of Corral Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxviii) COWLEY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.9-mile segment of Cowley Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxix) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Ditch Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxx) FRANCIS CREEK.—The approximately
0.9-mile segment of Francis Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxi) LONG GULCH.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Long Gulch from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.1-
mile segment of Long Gulch from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10
W., sec. 23, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxii) BAILEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary on the west section line of T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 14, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from the west
section line of T. 34 S., R.8 W., sec. 14, Wil-
lamette Meridian, to the confluence of the
Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiii) SHADY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.7-mile segment of Shady Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiv) SLIDE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.5-
mile segment of Slide Creek from its head-
waters to road 33–9–6, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 0.7-
mile section of Slide Creek from road 33–9–6
to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.’’.
(B) MANAGEMENT.—Each river segment des-
ignated by subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A))
shall be managed as part of the Rogue Wild
and Scenic River.
(C) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the river segments designated by
subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(D) ADDITIONAL PROTECTIONS FOR ROGUE
RIVER TRIBUTARIES.—
(i) LICENSING BY COMMISSION.—The Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission shall not li-
cense the construction of any dam, water
conduit, reservoir, powerhouse, transmission
line, or other project works on or directly af-
fecting any stream described in clause (iv).
(ii) OTHER AGENCIES.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—No department or agency
of the United States shall assist by loan,
grant, license, or otherwise in the construc-
tion of any water resources project on or di-
rectly affecting any stream segment that is
described in clause (iv), except to maintain
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1218 February 12, 2019
or repair water resources projects in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act.
(II) EFFECT.—Nothing in this clause pro-
hibits any department or agency of the
United States in assisting by loan, grant, li-
cense, or otherwise, a water resources
project—
(aa) the primary purpose of which is eco-
logical or aquatic restoration;
(bb) that provides a net benefit to water
quality and aquatic resources; and
(cc) that is consistent with protecting and
enhancing the values for which the river was
designated.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land located within 1⁄4
mile on either side of the stream segments
described in clause (iv) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(iv) DESCRIPTION OF STREAM SEGMENTS.—
The following are the stream segments re-
ferred to in clause (i):
(I) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately 2.5-
mile segment of Kelsey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 32 S., R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette
Meridian.
(II) GRAVE CREEK.—The approximately 10.2-
mile segment of Grave Creek from the east
boundary of T. 34 S., R. 7 W., sec. 1, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River.
(III) CENTENNIAL GULCH.—The approxi-
mately 2.2-mile segment of Centennial Gulch
from its headwaters to its confluence with
the Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 7, W., sec. 18,
Willamette Meridian.
(IV) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Quail Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette
Meridian.
(V) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately 0.7-
mile segment of Ditch Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette
Meridian.
(VI) GALICE CREEK.—The approximately
2.2-mile segment of Galice Creek from the
confluence with the North Fork Galice Creek
downstream to the confluence with the
Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 36, Wil-
lamette Meridian.
(VII) QUARTZ CREEK.—The approximately
3.3-mile segment of Quartz Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with the North
Fork Galice Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 4,
Willamette Meridian.
(VIII) NORTH FORK GALICE CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 5.7-mile segment of the North
Fork Galice Creek from its headwaters to its
confluence with the South Fork Galice
Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 3, Willamette
Meridian.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE WILD
AND SCENIC RIVERS ACT.—
(A) CHETCO, OREGON.—Section 3(a)(69) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(69)) is amended—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respec-
tively, and indenting appropriately;
(ii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as so
redesignated), by striking ‘‘The 44.5-mile’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 44.5-mile’’;
(iii) in clause (i) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘25.5-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘27.5-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek at the
Kalmiopsis Wilderness boundary’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Mislatnah Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘8-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘7.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek to Steel
Bridge’’ and inserting ‘‘Mislatnah Creek to
Eagle Creek’’;
(v) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘11-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘9.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Steel Bridge’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Eagle Creek’’; and
(vi) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights,
the Federal land within the boundaries of
the river segments designated by subpara-
graph (A) is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.’’.
(B) WHYCHUS CREEK, OREGON.—Section
3(a)(102) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(102)) is amended—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘SQUAW CREEK’’ and inserting ‘‘WHYCHUS
CREEK’’;
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and
indenting appropriately;
(iii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as
so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘The 15.4-mile’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 15.4-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch, includ-
ing the Soap Fork Squaw Creek, the North
Fork, the South Fork, the East and West
Forks of Park Creek, and Park Creek Fork’’
and inserting ‘‘Plainview Ditch, including
the Soap Creek, the North and South Forks
of Whychus Creek, the East and West Forks
of Park Creek, and Park Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by
striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch’’ and inserting
‘‘Plainview Ditch’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(3) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
WASSON CREEK AND FRANKLIN CREEK, OR-
EGON.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(214) FRANKLIN CREEK, OREGON.—The 4.5-
mile segment from its headwaters to the pri-
vate land boundary in sec. 8, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a
wild river.
‘‘(215) WASSON CREEK, OREGON.—The 10.1-
mile segment in the following classes:
‘‘(A) The 4.2-mile segment from the eastern
boundary of T. 21 S., R. 9 W., sec. 17, down-
stream to the western boundary of T. 21 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 12, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 5.9-mile segment from the west-
ern boundary of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec. 12,
downstream to the eastern boundary of the
northwest quarter of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec.
22, to be administered by the Secretary of
Agriculture as a wild river.’’.
(4) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—Section 3(a) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a))
(as amended by paragraph (3)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(216) MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
in the State of Oregon, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a rec-
reational river:
‘‘(i) MOLALLA RIVER.—The approximately
15.1-mile segment from the southern bound-
ary line of T. 7 S., R. 4 E., sec. 19, down-
stream to the edge of the Bureau of Land
Management boundary in T. 6 S., R. 3 E., sec.
7.
‘‘(ii) TABLE ROCK FORK MOLALLA RIVER.—
The approximately 6.2-mile segment from
the easternmost Bureau of Land Manage-
ment boundary line in the NE1⁄4 sec. 4, T. 7
S., R. 4 E., downstream to the confluence
with the Molalla River.
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(5) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL WILD AND
SCENIC RIVERS.—
(A) ELK RIVER, OREGON.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (76) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(76) ELK, OREGON.—The 69.2-mile segment
to be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture in the following classes:
‘‘(A) MAINSTEM.—The 17-mile segment from
the confluence of the North and South Forks
of the Elk to Anvil Creek as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) NORTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.6-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from its
source in T. 33 S., R. 12 W., sec. 21, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to 0.01 miles
below Forest Service Road 3353, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.5-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the South Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(C) SOUTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from its
source in the southeast quarter of T. 33 S., R.
12 W., sec. 32, Willamette Meridian, Forest
Service Road 3353, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.2-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the North Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(D) OTHER TRIBUTARIES.—
‘‘(i) ROCK CREEK.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Rock Creek from its head-
waters to the west boundary of T. 32 S., R. 14
W., sec. 30, Willamette Meridian, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 8-mile segment of Bald Mountain
Creek from its headwaters, including Salal
Spring to its confluence with Elk River, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(iii) SOUTH FORK BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—
The approximately 3.5-mile segment of
South Fork Bald Mountain Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with Bald
Mountain Creek, as a scenic river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1219
February 12, 2019
‘‘(iv) PLATINUM CREEK.—The approximately
1-mile segment of Platinum Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) PANTHER CREEK.—The approximately
5.0-mile segment of Panther Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters, including Mountain
Well, to Forest Service Road 5325, as a wild
river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(vi) EAST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of East Fork
Panther Creek from it headwaters, to the
confluence with Panther Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(vii) WEST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of West Fork
Panther Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with Panther Creek as a wild
river.
‘‘(viii) LOST CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of Lost Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ix) MILBURY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Milbury Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(x) BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 5.0-mile segment of Blackberry Creek
from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xi) EAST FORK BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The
approximately 2.0-mile segment of the
unnamed tributary locally known as ‘East
Fork Blackberry Creek’ from its headwaters
in T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 26, Willamette Me-
ridian, to its confluence with Blackberry
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(xii) MCCURDY CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of McCurdy Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xiii) BEAR CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Bear Creek from head-
waters to the confluence with Bald Mountain
Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(xiv) BUTLER CREEK.—The approximately
4-mile segment of Butler Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to the south boundary
of T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Merid-
ian, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) from the south boundary of T. 33 S.,
R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xv) EAST FORK BUTLER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.8-mile segment locally known
as the ‘East Fork of Butler Creek’ from its
headwaters on Mount Butler in T. 32 S., R. 13
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to its con-
fluence with Butler Creek, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xvi) PURPLE MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.0-mile segment locally known
as ‘Purple Mountain Creek’ from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters in secs. 35 and 36, T. 33
S., R. 14 W., Willamette Meridian, to 0.01
miles above Forest Service Road 5325, as a
wild river; and
‘‘(II) 0.01 miles above Forest Service Road
5325 to its confluence with the Elk River, as
a scenic river.’’.
(ii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraph (76) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by clause (i)) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(B) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by paragraph (4)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(217) NESTUCCA RIVER, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 15.5-mile segment from its con-
fluence with Ginger Creek downstream until
it crosses the western edge of T. 4 S., R. 7 W.,
sec. 7, Willamette Meridian, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of the Interior as a
recreational river.
‘‘(218) WALKER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 2.9-mile segment from the head-
waters in T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 20 downstream
to the confluence with the Nestucca River in
T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian,
to be administered by the Secretary of the
Interior as a recreational river.
‘‘(219) NORTH FORK SILVER CREEK, OREGON.—
The approximately 6-mile segment from the
headwaters in T. 35 S., R. 9 W., sec. 1 down-
stream to the western edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 35 S., R. 9
W., sec. 17, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(220) JENNY CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 17.6-mile segment from the Bureau of
Land Management boundary located at the
north boundary of the southwest quarter of
the southeast quarter of T. 38 S., R. 4 E., sec.
34, Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
Oregon State border, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic
river.
‘‘(221) SPRING CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 1.1-mile segment from its source
at Shoat Springs in T. 40 S., R. 4 E., sec. 34,
Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
confluence with Jenny Creek in T. 41 S., R.
4 E., sec. 3, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a scenic river.
‘‘(222) LOBSTER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 5-mile segment from T. 15 S., R.
8 W., sec. 35, Willamette Meridian, down-
stream to the northern edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 15 S., R. 8
W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(223) ELK CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 7.3-mile segment from its confluence
with Flat Creek near river mile 9, to the
southern edge of the Army Corps of Engi-
neers boundary in T. 33 S., R. 1 E., sec. 30,
Willamette Meridian, near river mile 1.7, to
be administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(ii) ADMINISTRATION OF ELK CREEK.—
(I) LATERAL BOUNDARIES OF ELK CREEK.—
The lateral boundaries of the river segment
designated by paragraph (223) of section 3(a)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) shall include
an average of not more than 640 acres per
mile measured from the ordinary high water
mark on both sides of the river segment.
(II) DEAUTHORIZATION.—The Elk Creek
Project authorized under the Flood Control
Act of 1962 (Public Law 87–874; 76 Stat. 1192)
is deauthorized.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraphs (217) through (223) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(b) DEVIL’S STAIRCASE WILDERNESS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Devil’s Staircase Wilderness Pro-
posal’’ and dated July 26, 2018.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(i) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Secretary; or
(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(C) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(D) WILDERNESS.—The term ‘‘Wilderness’’
means the Devil’s Staircase Wilderness des-
ignated by paragraph (2).
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 30,621 acres of Forest Service
land and Bureau of Land Management land
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map, is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, to be known as the ‘‘Dev-
il’s Staircase Wilderness’’.
(3) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Wilderness.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this subsection, except that the
Secretary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the area designated as wilder-
ness by this subsection shall be administered
by the Secretary in accordance with the Wil-
derness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except
that—
(A) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(B) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary that has ju-
risdiction over the land within the Wilder-
ness.
(5) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
subsection affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(6) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Wilderness.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—The
fact that a nonwilderness activity or use on
land outside the Wilderness can be seen or
heard within the Wilderness shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Wilderness.
(7) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this subsection diminishes any treaty
rights of an Indian Tribe.
(8) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1220 February 12, 2019
(A) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the approximately 49 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land north of the
Umpqua River in T. 21 S., R. 11 W., sec. 32, is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the land transferred by subpara-
graph (A) in accordance with—
(i) the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Weeks Law’’) (16 U.S.C. 480 et
seq.); and
(ii) any laws (including regulations) appli-
cable to the National Forest System.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 1211. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the San Rafael Swell Recreation Area Advi-
sory Council established under section
1223(a).
(2) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Emery County in the State.
(3) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area developed under sec-
tion 1222(c).
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Emery County Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2018 Overview Map’’ and
dated February 5, 2019.
(5) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the San Rafael Swell
Recreation Area established by section
1221(a)(1).
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(7) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(8) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by section 1231(a).
SEC. 1212. ADMINISTRATION.
Nothing in this part affects or modifies—
(1) any right of any federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; or
(2) any obligation of the United States to
any federally recognized Indian Tribe.
SEC. 1213. EFFECT ON WATER RIGHTS.
Nothing in this part—
(1) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(2) affects any water right (as defined by
applicable State law) in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(3) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(4) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act; or
(5) affects the management and operation
of Flaming Gorge Dam and Reservoir, in-
cluding the storage, management, and re-
lease of water.
SEC. 1214. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
Nothing in this part diminishes the au-
thority of the Secretary under Public Law
92–195 (commonly known as the ‘‘Wild Free-
Roaming Horses and Burros Act’’) (16 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.).
Subpart A—San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
SEC. 1221. ESTABLISHMENT OF RECREATION
AREA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 216,995 acres
of Federal land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management, as generally depicted on
the Map.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to provide for the protection,
conservation, and enhancement of the rec-
reational, cultural, natural, scenic, wildlife,
ecological, historical, and educational re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of the Recreation Area with the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this subpart,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 1222. MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION AREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(C) other applicable laws.
(b) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
uses of the Recreation Area that are con-
sistent with the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Recreation
Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Management Plan
shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Recreation Area;
(B) be developed with extensive public
input;
(C) take into consideration any informa-
tion developed in studies of the land within
the Recreation Area; and
(D) be developed fully consistent with the
settlement agreement entered into on Janu-
ary 13, 2017, in the case in the United States
District Court for the District of Utah styled
‘‘Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, et al. v.
U.S. Department of the Interior, et al.’’ and
numbered 2:12–cv–257 DAK.
(d) MOTORIZED VEHICLES; NEW ROADS.—
(1) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for emergency response or administrative
purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Area shall be permitted only
on roads and motorized routes designated in
the Management Plan for the use of motor-
ized vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(e) GRAZING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the Recreation Area, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) applicable law (including regulations);
and
(B) the purposes of the Recreation Area.
(2) INVENTORY.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in collaboration with any affected
grazing permittee, shall carry out an inven-
tory of facilities and improvements associ-
ated with grazing activities in the Recre-
ation Area.
(f) COLD WAR SITES.—The Secretary shall
manage the Recreation Area in a manner
that educates the public about Cold War and
historic uranium mine sites in the Recre-
ation Area, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers necessary to
protect public health and safety.
(g) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated within the boundary of the Recreation
Area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act
shall—
(1) become part of the Recreation Area;
and
(2) be managed in accordance with applica-
ble laws, including as provided in this sec-
tion.
(h) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area, including any land or interest in
land that is acquired by the United States
within the Recreation Area after the date of
enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(i) STUDY OF NONMOTORIZED RECREATION
OPPORTUNITIES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in consultation with interested par-
ties, shall conduct a study of nonmotorized
recreation trail opportunities, including bi-
cycle trails, within the Recreation Area,
consistent with the purposes of the Recre-
ation Area.
(j) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with the State in accordance with sec-
tion 307(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b))
and other applicable laws to provide for the
protection, management, and maintenance
of the Recreation Area.
SEC. 1223. SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish an advisory
council, to be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council’’.
(b) DUTIES.—The Council shall advise the
Secretary with respect to the preparation
and implementation of the Management
Plan for the Recreation Area.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1221
February 12, 2019
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—The Council shall be
subject to—
(1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(2) section 309 of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1739).
(d) MEMBERS.—The Council shall include 7
members, to be appointed by the Secretary,
of whom, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable—
(1) 1 member shall represent the Emery
County Commission;
(2) 1 member shall represent motorized rec-
reational users;
(3) 1 member shall represent nonmotorized
recreational users;
(4) 1 member shall represent permittees
holding grazing allotments within the Recre-
ation Area or wilderness areas designated in
this part;
(5) 1 member shall represent conservation
organizations;
(6) 1 member shall have expertise in the
historical uses of the Recreation Area; and
(7) 1 member shall be appointed from the
elected leadership of a Federally recognized
Indian Tribe that has significant cultural or
historical connections to, and expertise in,
the landscape, archeological sites, or cul-
tural sites within the County.
Subpart B—Wilderness Areas
SEC. 1231. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WIL-
DERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
(a) ADDITIONS.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following land in the State is designated as
wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) BIG WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 18,192
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Big Wild Horse
Mesa Wilderness’’.
(2) COLD WASH.—Certain Federal land man-
aged by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 11,001 acres, gen-
erally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Cold Wash Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Cold Wash Wilderness’’.
(3) DESOLATION CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 142,996
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Desolation Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Desolation
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(4) DEVIL’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 8,675 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(5) EAGLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 13,832 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(6) HORSE VALLEY.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 12,201 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Horse Valley Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Horse Valley Wilderness’’.
(7) LABYRINTH CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 54,643
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Labyrinth
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(8) LITTLE OCEAN DRAW.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 20,660
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Ocean Draw Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Little Ocean
Draw Wilderness’’.
(9) LITTLE WILD HORSE CANYON.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
5,479 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Little
Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness’’.
(10) LOWER LAST CHANCE.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 19,338
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Lower Last Chance Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Lower Last
Chance Wilderness’’.
(11) MEXICAN MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 76,413
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Mexican Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Mexican Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(12) MIDDLE WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
16,343 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Middle
Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’.
(13) MUDDY CREEK.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 98,023 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Muddy Creek Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Muddy Creek Wilderness’’.
(14) NELSON MOUNTAIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Forest Service, comprising
approximately 7,176 acres, and certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately 257
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Nelson Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Nelson Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(B) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—Administrative jurisdiction over the
257-acre portion of the Nelson Mountain Wil-
derness designated by subparagraph (A) is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(15) RED’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 17,325 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(16) SAN RAFAEL REEF.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 60,442
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed San Rafael Reef Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Reef Wilderness’’.
(17) SID’S MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 49,130 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’.
(18) TURTLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 29,029 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each wilderness area with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical and typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall be
on file and available for public inspection in
the appropriate office of the Secretary.
SEC. 1232. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the wilderness areas shall be ad-
ministered by the Secretary in accordance
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary.
(b) RECREATIONAL CLIMBING.—Nothing in
this part prohibits recreational rock climb-
ing activities in the wilderness areas, such as
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed
anchors, including any fixed anchor estab-
lished before the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act
(16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
(2) subject to any terms and conditions de-
termined to be necessary by the Secretary.
(c) TRAIL PLAN.—After providing opportu-
nities for public comment, the Secretary
shall establish a trail plan that addresses
hiking and equestrian trails on the wilder-
ness areas in a manner consistent with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
(d) LIVESTOCK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the wilderness areas, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(2) INVENTORY.—With respect to each wil-
derness area in which grazing of livestock is
allowed to continue under paragraph (1), not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary, in collabora-
tion with any affected grazing permittee,
shall carry out an inventory of facilities and
improvements associated with grazing ac-
tivities in the wilderness area.
(e) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the wilderness areas to
create protective perimeters or buffer zones
around the wilderness areas.
(2) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness
area shall not preclude the conduct of those
activities or uses outside the boundary of the
wilderness area.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subpart restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units
of special use airspace, or the establishment
of military flight training routes, over the
wilderness areas.
(g) COMMERCIAL SERVICES.—Commercial
services (including authorized outfitting and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1222 February 12, 2019
guide activities) within the wilderness areas
may be authorized to the extent necessary
for activities that are appropriate for real-
izing the recreational or other wilderness
purposes of the wilderness areas, in accord-
ance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)).
(h) LAND ACQUISITION AND INCORPORATION
OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTERESTS.—
(1) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire land and interests in land with-
in the boundaries of a wilderness area by do-
nation, purchase from a willing seller, or ex-
change.
(2) INCORPORATION.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of a wilderness
area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act shall
be added to and administered as part of the
wilderness area.
(i) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subpart—
(A) shall constitute or be construed to con-
stitute either an express or implied reserva-
tion by the United States of any water or
water rights with respect to the land des-
ignated as wilderness by section 1231;
(B) shall affect any water rights in the
State existing on the date of enactment of
this Act, including any water rights held by
the United States;
(C) shall be construed as establishing a
precedent with regard to any future wilder-
ness designations;
(D) shall affect the interpretation of, or
any designation made pursuant to, any other
Act; or
(E) shall be construed as limiting, altering,
modifying, or amending any of the interstate
compacts or equitable apportionment de-
crees that apportions water among and be-
tween the State and other States.
(2) STATE WATER LAW.—The Secretary shall
follow the procedural and substantive re-
quirements of the State in order to obtain
and hold any water rights not in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act with re-
spect to the wilderness areas.
(j) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary shall offer to enter into a memo-
randum of understanding with the County, in
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to clarify the approval
processes for the use of motorized equipment
and mechanical transport for search and res-
cue activities in the Muddy Creek Wilderness
established by section 1231(a)(13).
SEC. 1233. FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.
Nothing in this subpart affects the juris-
diction of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife on public land located in the State.
SEC. 1234. RELEASE.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for the
purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 17,420
acres of public land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in the County
that has not been designated as wilderness
by section 1231(a) has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation.
(b) RELEASE.—The public land described in
subsection (a)—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(2) shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) applicable law; and
(B) any applicable land management plan
adopted under section 202 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712).
Subpart C—Wild and Scenic River
Designation
SEC. 1241. GREEN RIVER WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER DESIGNATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1205(a)(5)(B)(i)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(224) GREEN RIVER.—The approximately
63-mile segment, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Emery County Public Land
Management Act of 2018 Overview Map’ and
dated December 11, 2018, to be administered
by the Secretary of the Interior, in the fol-
lowing classifications:
‘‘(A) WILD RIVER SEGMENT.—The 5.3-mile
segment from the boundary of the Uintah
and Ouray Reservation, south to the
Nefertiti boat ramp, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) RECREATIONAL RIVER SEGMENT.—The
8.5-mile segment from the Nefertiti boat
ramp, south to the Swasey’s boat ramp, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(C) SCENIC RIVER SEGMENT.—The 49.2-mile
segment from Bull Bottom, south to the
county line between Emery and Wayne Coun-
ties, as a scenic river.’’.
(b) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED NON-FED-
ERAL LAND.—If the United States acquires
any non-Federal land within or adjacent to a
river segment of the Green River designated
by paragraph (224) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)), the acquired land
shall be incorporated in, and be administered
as part of, the applicable wild, scenic, or rec-
reational river.
Subpart D—Land Management and
Conveyances
SEC. 1251. GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to convey to the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation of the Utah Department of Nat-
ural Resources (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘State’’), approximately 6,261 acres of
land identified on the Map as the ‘‘Proposed
Goblin Valley State Park Expansion’’, with-
out consideration, for the management by
the State as a State park, consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) REVERSIONARY CLAUSE REQUIRED.—A
conveyance under subsection (a) shall in-
clude a reversionary clause to ensure that
management of the land described in that
subsection shall revert to the Secretary if
the land is no longer being managed as a
State park in accordance with subsection (a).
SEC. 1252. JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT PURPOSES.—To con-
serve, interpret, and enhance for the benefit
of present and future generations the paleon-
tological, scientific, educational, and rec-
reational resources of the area and subject to
valid existing rights, there is established in
the State the Jurassic National Monument
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Monu-
ment’’), consisting of approximately 850
acres of Federal land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County
and generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Jurassic
National Monument’’ on the Map.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file with the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a map and
legal description of the Monument.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this section,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description, subject to the requirement
that, before making the proposed correc-
tions, the Secretary shall submit to the
State and any affected county the proposed
corrections.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
(c) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, any Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Monument and any land or inter-
est in land that is acquired by the United
States for inclusion in the Monument after
the date of enactment of this Act is with-
drawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing laws,
geothermal leasing laws, and minerals mate-
rials laws.
(d) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Monument, including the resources and val-
ues described in subsection (a); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any other applicable Federal law.
(2) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The Monument shall be managed as a
component of the National Landscape Con-
servation System.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Monument.
(2) COMPONENTS.—The management plan
developed under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Monument, consistent with
the provisions of this section; and
(B) allow for continued scientific research
at the Monument during the development of
the management plan for the Monument,
subject to any terms and conditions that the
Secretary determines necessary to protect
Monument resources.
(f) AUTHORIZED USES.—The Secretary shall
only allow uses of the Monument that the
Secretary determines would further the pur-
poses for which the Monument has been es-
tablished.
(g) INTERPRETATION, EDUCATION, AND SCI-
ENTIFIC RESEARCH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide for public interpretation of, and edu-
cation and scientific research on, the paleon-
tological resources of the Monument.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with appropriate public entities to
carry out paragraph (1).
(h) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The establishment of the
Monument shall not modify the management
status of any area within the boundary of
the Monument that is managed as an area of
critical environmental concern.
(2) CONFLICT OF LAWS.—If there is a conflict
between the laws applicable to an area de-
scribed in paragraph (1) and this section, the
more restrictive provision shall control.
(i) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Monument shall be allowed only on
roads and trails designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles under the management plan for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1223
February 12, 2019
the Monument developed under subsection
(e).
(j) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this section
constitutes an express or implied reservation
by the United States of any water or water
rights with respect to the Monument.
(k) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Monument, if established before the date
of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to
continue, subject to such reasonable regula-
tions, policies, and practices as the Sec-
retary considers to be necessary in accord-
ance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405); and
(3) the purposes of the Monument.
SEC. 1253. PUBLIC LAND DISPOSAL AND ACQUISI-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, the Secretary may sell public land
located in the County that has been identi-
fied as suitable for disposal based on specific
criteria as listed in the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713)
in the applicable resource management plan
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) USE OF PROCEEDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (other than a law that
specifically provides for a portion of the pro-
ceeds of a land sale to be distributed to any
trust fund of the State), proceeds from the
sale of public land under subsection (a) shall
be deposited in a separate account in the
Treasury, to be known as the ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty, Utah, Land Acquisition Account’’ (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Account’’).
(2) AVAILABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Account
shall be available to the Secretary, without
further appropriation, to purchase from will-
ing sellers land or interests in land within a
wilderness area or the Recreation Area.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—Any purchase of land
or interest in land under subparagraph (A)
shall be in accordance with applicable law.
(C) PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES.—
To the extent that there are amounts in the
Account in excess of the amounts needed to
carry out subparagraph (A), the Secretary
may use the excess amounts for the protec-
tion of cultural resources on Federal land
within the County.
SEC. 1254. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on re-
quest by the applicable local governmental
entity, the Secretary shall convey without
consideration the following parcels of public
land to be used for public purposes:
(1) EMERY CITY RECREATION AREA.—The ap-
proximately 640-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to the City of Emery,
Utah, for the creation or enhancement of
public recreation opportunities consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) HUNTINGTON AIRPORT.—The approxi-
mately 320-acre parcel as generally depicted
on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, for ex-
pansion of Huntington Airport consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(3) EMERY COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Emery County Sheriff’s Office sub-
station consistent with uses allowed under
the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’)
(44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et
seq.).
(4) BUCKHORN INFORMATION CENTER.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Buckhorn Information Center con-
sistent with uses allowed under the Act of
June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (44
Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each parcel of land to be conveyed
under subsection (a) with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical or typographical errors in the map
and legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the Price Field Office of the Bu-
reau of Land Management.
(c) REVERSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If a parcel of land con-
veyed under subsection (a) is used for a pur-
pose other than the purpose described in that
subsection, the parcel of land shall, at the
discretion of the Secretary, revert to the
United States.
(2) RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMEDIATION.—In
the case of a reversion under paragraph (1), if
the Secretary determines that the parcel of
land is contaminated with hazardous waste,
the local governmental entity to which the
parcel of land was conveyed under subsection
(a) shall be responsible for remediation.
SEC. 1255. EXCHANGE OF BLM AND SCHOOL AND
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS AD-
MINISTRATION LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXCHANGE MAP.—The term ‘‘Exchange
Map’’ means the map prepared by the Bureau
of Land Management entitled ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty Public Land Management Act—Proposed
Land Exchange’’ and dated December, 10,
2018.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means public land located in the State
of Utah that is identified on the Exchange
Map as—
(A) ‘‘BLM Surface and Mineral Lands Pro-
posed for Transfer to SITLA’’;
(B) ‘‘BLM Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’; and
(C) ‘‘BLM Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land owned by the
State in the Emery and Uintah Counties
that is identified on the Exchange Map as—
(A) ‘‘SITLA Surface and Mineral Land Pro-
posed for Transfer to BLM’’;
(B) ‘‘SITLA Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’; and
(C) ‘‘SITLA Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State, acting through the School and Insti-
tutional Trust Lands Administration.
(b) EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-
FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the State offers to con-
vey to the United States title to the non-
Federal land, the Secretary, in accordance
with this section, shall—
(A) accept the offer; and
(B) on receipt of all right, title, and inter-
est in and to the non-Federal land, convey to
the State (or a designee) all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
Federal land.
(2) CONVEYANCE OF PARCELS IN PHASES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding that ap-
praisals for all of the parcels of Federal land
and non-Federal land may not have been ap-
proved under subsection (c)(5), parcels of the
Federal land and non-Federal land may be
exchanged under paragraph (1) in phases, to
be mutually agreed by the Secretary and the
State, beginning on the date on which the
appraised values of the parcels included in
the applicable phase are approved.
(B) NO AGREEMENT ON EXCHANGE.—If any
dispute or delay arises with respect to the
exchange of an individual parcel of Federal
land or non-Federal land under paragraph
(1), the Secretary and the State may mutu-
ally agree to set aside the individual parcel
to allow the exchange of the other parcels of
Federal land and non-Federal land to pro-
ceed.
(3) EXCLUSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from any conveyance of a parcel of
Federal land under paragraph (1) any Federal
land that contains critical habitat des-
ignated for a species listed as an endangered
species or a threatened species under the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et
seq.).
(B) REQUIREMENT.—Any Federal land ex-
cluded under subparagraph (A) shall be the
smallest area necessary to protect the appli-
cable critical habitat.
(4) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The land exchange under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to section 206
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) and other applica-
ble law.
(B) LAND USE PLANNING.—With respect to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall not be required
to undertake any additional land use plan-
ning under section 202 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712) before the conveyance of the
Federal land.
(5) VALID EXISTING RIGHTS.—The land ex-
change under paragraph (1) shall be subject
to valid existing rights.
(6) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under paragraph (1) shall be in a form ac-
ceptable to the Secretary and the State.
(c) APPRAISALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and the non-Federal land to be ex-
changed under subsection (b)(1) shall be de-
termined by appraisals conducted by 1 or
more independent and qualified appraisers.
(2) STATE APPRAISER.—The Secretary and
the State may agree to use an independent
and qualified appraiser—
(A) retained by the State; and
(B) approved by the Secretary.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisals under
paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with nationally recognized appraisal
standards, including, as appropriate—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MINERALS.—
(A) MINERAL REPORTS.—The appraisals
under paragraph (1) may take into account
mineral and technical reports provided by
the Secretary and the State in the evalua-
tion of mineral deposits in the Federal land
and non-Federal land.
(B) MINING CLAIMS.—To the extent permis-
sible under applicable appraisal standards,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1224 February 12, 2019
the appraisal of any parcel of Federal land
that is encumbered by a mining or millsite
claim located under sections 2318 through
2352 of the Revised Statutes (commonly
known as the ‘‘Mining Law of 1872’’) (30
U.S.C. 21 et seq.) shall be appraised in ac-
cordance with standard appraisal practices,
including, as appropriate, the Uniform Ap-
praisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisi-
tion.
(C) VALIDITY EXAMINATIONS.—Nothing in
this subsection requires the United States to
conduct a mineral examination for any min-
ing claim on the Federal land.
(D) ADJUSTMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If value is attributed to
any parcel of Federal land because of the
presence of minerals subject to leasing under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.), the value of the parcel (as otherwise
established under this subsection) shall be
reduced by the percentage of the applicable
Federal revenue sharing obligation under
section 35(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 191(a)).
(ii) LIMITATION.—An adjustment under
clause (i) shall not be considered to be a
property right of the State.
(5) APPROVAL.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the
Secretary and the State for approval.
(6) DURATION.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall remain valid for 3
years after the date on which the appraisal is
approved by the Secretary and the State.
(7) COST OF APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The cost of an appraisal
conducted under paragraph (1) shall be paid
equally by the Secretary and the State.
(B) REIMBURSEMENT BY SECRETARY.—If the
State retains an appraiser in accordance
with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall reim-
burse the State in an amount equal to 50 per-
cent of the costs incurred by the State.
(d) CONVEYANCE OF TITLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange author-
ized under subsection (b)(1) shall be com-
pleted not later than 1 year after the date of
final approval by the Secretary and the
State of the appraisals conducted under sub-
section (c).
(e) PUBLIC INSPECTION AND NOTICE.—
(1) PUBLIC INSPECTION.—Not later than 30
days before the date of any exchange of Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land under sub-
section (b)(1), all final appraisals and ap-
praisal reviews for the land to be exchanged
shall be available for public review at the of-
fice of the State Director of the Bureau of
Land Management in the State of Utah.
(2) NOTICE.—The Secretary shall make
available on the public website of the Sec-
retary, and the Secretary or the State, as ap-
plicable, shall publish in a newspaper of gen-
eral circulation in Salt Lake County, Utah,
a notice that the appraisals conducted under
subsection (c) are available for public inspec-
tion.
(f) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under subsection (b)(1)—
(A) shall be equal; or
(B) shall be made equal in accordance with
paragraph (2).
(2) EQUALIZATION.—
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND.—With re-
spect to any Federal land and non-Federal
land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1),
if the value of the Federal land exceeds the
value of the non-Federal land, the value of
the Federal land and non-Federal land shall
be equalized by—
(i) the State conveying to the Secretary, as
necessary to equalize the value of the Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land, after the ac-
quisition of all State trust land located with-
in the wilderness areas or recreation area
designated by this part, State trust land lo-
cated within any of the wilderness areas or
national conservation areas in Washington
County, Utah, established under subtitle O of
title I of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat.
1075); and
(ii) the State, to the extent necessary to
equalize any remaining imbalance of value
after all available Washington County, Utah,
land described in clause (i) has been con-
veyed to the Secretary, conveying to the
Secretary additional State trust land as
identified and agreed on by the Secretary
and the State.
(B) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND.—If the
value of the non-Federal land exceeds the
value of the Federal land, the value of the
Federal land and the non-Federal land shall
be equalized—
(i) by the Secretary making a cash equali-
zation payment to the State, in accordance
with section 206(b) of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1716(b)); or
(ii) by removing non-Federal land from the
exchange.
(g) INDIAN TRIBES.—The Secretary shall
consult with any federally recognized Indian
Tribe in the vicinity of the Federal land and
non-Federal land to be exchanged under sub-
section (b)(1) before the completion of the
land exchange.
(h) APPURTENANT WATER RIGHTS.—Any
conveyance of a parcel of Federal land or
non-Federal land under subsection (b)(1)
shall include the conveyance of water rights
appurtenant to the parcel conveyed.
(i) GRAZING PERMITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Federal land or non-
Federal land exchanged under subsection
(b)(1) is subject to a lease, permit, or con-
tract for the grazing of domestic livestock in
effect on the date of acquisition, the Sec-
retary and the State shall allow the grazing
to continue for the remainder of the term of
the lease, permit, or contract, subject to the
related terms and conditions of user agree-
ments, including permitted stocking rates,
grazing fee levels, access rights, and owner-
ship and use of range improvements.
(2) RENEWAL.—To the extent allowed by
Federal or State law, on expiration of any
grazing lease, permit, or contract described
in paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, per-
mit, or contract shall be entitled to a pref-
erence right to renew the lease, permit, or
contract.
(3) CANCELLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prevents the Secretary or the State from
canceling or modifying a grazing permit,
lease, or contract if the Federal land or non-
Federal land subject to the permit, lease, or
contract is sold, conveyed, transferred, or
leased for non-grazing purposes by the Sec-
retary or the State.
(B) LIMITATION.—Except to the extent rea-
sonably necessary to accommodate surface
operations in support of mineral develop-
ment, the Secretary or the State shall not
cancel or modify a grazing permit, lease, or
contract because the land subject to the per-
mit, lease, or contract has been leased for
mineral development.
(4) BASE PROPERTIES.—If non-Federal land
conveyed by the State under subsection
(b)(1) is used by a grazing permittee or lessee
to meet the base property requirements for a
Federal grazing permit or lease, the land
shall continue to qualify as a base property
for—
(A) the remaining term of the lease or per-
mit; and
(B) the term of any renewal or extension of
the lease or permit.
(j) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND FROM
MINERAL ENTRY PRIOR TO EXCHANGE.—Sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Federal land
to be conveyed to the State under subsection
(b)(1) is withdrawn from mineral location,
entry, and patent under the mining laws
pending conveyance of the Federal land to
the State.
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
SEC. 1301. LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND
SALMON BROOK WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Study Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–
370) authorized the study of the Farmington
River downstream from the segment des-
ignated as a recreational river by section
3(a)(156) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(a)(156)) to its confluence with
the Connecticut River, and the segment of
the Salmon Brook including its main stem
and east and west branches for potential in-
clusion in the National Wild and Scenic Riv-
ers System;
(2) the studied segments of the Lower
Farmington River and Salmon Brook sup-
port natural, cultural, and recreational re-
sources of exceptional significance to the
citizens of Connecticut and the Nation;
(3) concurrently with the preparation of
the study, the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic Study Com-
mittee prepared the Lower Farmington
River and Salmon Brook Management Plan,
June 2011 (referred to in this section as the
‘‘management plan’’), that establishes objec-
tives, standards, and action programs that
will ensure the long-term protection of the
outstanding values of the river segments
without Federal management of affected
lands not owned by the United States;
(4) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Wild and Scenic Study Committee
has voted in favor of Wild and Scenic River
designation for the river segments, and has
included this recommendation as an integral
part of the management plan;
(5) there is strong local support for the pro-
tection of the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook, including votes of support for
Wild and Scenic designation from the gov-
erning bodies of all ten communities abut-
ting the study area;
(6) the State of Connecticut General As-
sembly has endorsed the designation of the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
as components of the National Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers System (Public Act 08–37); and
(7) the Rainbow Dam and Reservoir are lo-
cated entirely outside of the river segment
designated by subsection (b), and, based on
the findings of the study of the Lower Farm-
ington River pursuant to Public Law 109–370,
this hydroelectric project (including all as-
pects of its facilities, operations, and trans-
mission lines) is compatible with the des-
ignation made by subsection (b).
(b) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1241(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(225) LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALM-
ON BROOK, CONNECTICUT.—Segments of the
main stem and its tributary, Salmon Brook,
totaling approximately 62 miles, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximately 27.2-mile segment
of the Farmington River beginning 0.2 miles
below the tailrace of the Lower Collinsville
Dam and extending to the site of the
Spoonville Dam in Bloomfield and East
Granby as a recreational river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 8.1-mile segment
of the Farmington River extending from 0.5
miles below the Rainbow Dam to the con-
fluence with the Connecticut River in Wind-
sor as a recreational river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1225
February 12, 2019
‘‘(C) The approximately 2.4-mile segment
of the main stem of Salmon Brook extending
from the confluence of the East and West
Branches to the confluence with the Farm-
ington River as a recreational river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 12.6-mile segment
of the West Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from its headwaters in Hartland, Con-
necticut, to its confluence with the East
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 11.4-mile segment
of the East Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from the Massachusetts-Connecticut
State line to the confluence with the West
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.’’.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by subsection (b) shall be managed
in accordance with the management plan
and such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section. The management
plan shall be deemed to satisfy the require-
ments for a comprehensive management plan
pursuant to section 3(d) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
Wild and Scenic Committee, as specified in
the management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segment des-
ignated by subsection (b), the Secretary is
authorized to enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) with—
(i) the State of Connecticut;
(ii) the towns of Avon, Bloomfield, Bur-
lington, East Granby, Farmington, Granby,
Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor in Con-
necticut; and
(iii) appropriate local planning and envi-
ronmental organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—All cooperative agree-
ments provided for under this section shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purposes
of the segments designated in subsection (b),
the zoning ordinances adopted by the towns
in Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, East Gran-
by, Farmington, Granby, Hartland,
Simsbury, and Windsor in Connecticut, in-
cluding provisions for conservation of
floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses asso-
ciated with the segments, shall be deemed to
satisfy the standards and requirements of
section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The provisions
of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)) that prohibit Federal
acquisition of lands by condemnation shall
apply to the segments designated in sub-
section (b). The authority of the Secretary
to acquire lands for the purposes of the seg-
ments designated in subsection (b) shall be
limited to acquisition by donation or acqui-
sition with the consent of the owner of the
lands, and shall be subject to the additional
criteria set forth in the management plan.
(5) RAINBOW DAM.—The designation made
by subsection (b) shall not be construed to—
(A) prohibit, pre-empt, or abridge the po-
tential future licensing of the Rainbow Dam
and Reservoir (including any and all aspects
of its facilities, operations and transmission
lines) by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission as a federally licensed hydro-
electric generation project under the Federal
Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), provided
that the Commission may, in the discretion
of the Commission and consistent with this
section, establish such reasonable terms and
conditions in a hydropower license for Rain-
bow Dam as are necessary to reduce impacts
identified by the Secretary as invading or
unreasonably diminishing the scenic, rec-
reational, and fish and wildlife values of the
segments designated by subsection (b); or
(B) affect the operation of, or impose any
flow or release requirements on, the unli-
censed hydroelectric facility at Rainbow
Dam and Reservoir.
(6) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the
Lower Farmington River shall not be admin-
istered as part of the National Park System
or be subject to regulations which govern the
National Park System.
(d) FARMINGTON RIVER, CONNECTICUT, DES-
IGNATION REVISION.—Section 3(a)(156) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(156)) is amended in the first sen-
tence—
(1) by striking ‘‘14-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘15.1-mile’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘to the downstream end of
the New Hartford-Canton, Connecticut town
line’’ and inserting ‘‘to the confluence with
the Nepaug River’’.
SEC. 1302. WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED WILD
AND SCENIC RIVER SEGMENTS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1301(b)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(226) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED, RHODE
ISLAND AND CONNECTICUT.—The following
river segments within the Wood-Pawcatuck
watershed, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior, in cooperation with
the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Council:
‘‘(A) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Beaver River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to its
confluence with the Pawcatuck River in
Richmond, Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Chipuxet River from the Kingstown Road
Bridge, South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
its outlet in Worden Pond, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The approximately 9-mile segment of
the Green Fall River from its headwaters in
Voluntown, Connecticut, to its confluence
with the Ashaway River in Hopkinton,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Ashaway River from its confluence with
the Green Fall River to its confluence with
the Pawcatuck River in Hopkinton, Rhode
Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the Worden Pond
outlet in South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
the South County Trail Bridge, Charlestown
and South Kingstown, Rhode Island, as a
wild river.
‘‘(F) The approximately 4-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from South County
Trail Bridge, Charlestown and South
Kingstown, Rhode Island, to the Carolina
Back Road Bridge in Richmond and Charles-
town, Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(G) The approximately 21-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from Carolina Back
Road Bridge in Richmond and Charlestown,
Rhode Island, to the confluence with
Shunock River in Stonington, Connecticut,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(H) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the confluence
with Shunock River in Stonington, Con-
necticut, to the mouth of the river between
Pawcatuck Point in Stonington, Con-
necticut, and Rhodes Point in Westerly,
Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(I) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Queen River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Kingstown Road Bridge in South Kingstown,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(J) The approximately 5-mile segment of
the Usquepaugh River from the Kingstown
Road Bridge to its confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in South Kingstown, Rhode
Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(K) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Shunock River from its headwaters in
North Stonington, Connecticut, to its con-
fluence with the Pawcatuck River as a rec-
reational river.
‘‘(L) The approximately 13-mile segment of
the Wood River from its headwaters in Ster-
ling and Voluntown, Connecticut, and Exeter
and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Arcadia Road Bridge in Hopkinton and Rich-
mond, Rhode Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(M) The approximately 11-mile segment
of the Wood River from the Arcadia Road
Bridge in Hopkinton and Richmond, Rhode
Island, to the confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in Charlestown,
Hopkinton, and Richmond, Rhode Island, as
a recreational river.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT OF RIVER SEGMENTS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) COVERED TRIBUTARY.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered tributary’’ means—
(i) each of Assekonk Brook, Breakheart
Brook, Brushy Brook, Canochet Brook,
Chickasheen Brook, Cedar Swamp Brook,
Fisherville Brook, Glade Brook, Glen Rock
Brook, Kelly Brook, Locke Brook, Meadow
Brook, Pendleton Brook, Parris Brook,
Passquisett Brook, Phillips Brook, Poquiant
Brook, Queens Fort Brook, Roaring Brook,
Sherman Brook, Taney Brook, Tomaquag
Brook, White Brook, and Wyassup Brook
within the Wood-Pawcatuck watershed; and
(ii) any other perennial stream within the
Wood-Pawcatuck watershed.
(B) RIVER SEGMENT.—The term ‘‘river seg-
ment’’ means a river segment designated by
paragraph (226) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)).
(C) STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—The term ‘‘Stew-
ardship Plan’’ means the plan entitled the
‘‘Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Plan for the Beaver, Chipuxet,
Green Fall-Ashaway, Pawcatuck, Queen-
Usquepaugh, Shunock, and Wood Rivers’’
and dated June 2018, which takes a watershed
approach to the management of the river
segments.
(2) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WILD AND SCENIC RIV-
ERS STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in co-
operation with the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild
and Scenic Rivers Stewardship Council, shall
manage the river segments in accordance
with—
(i) the Stewardship Plan; and
(ii) any amendment to the Stewardship
Plan that the Secretary determines is con-
sistent with this subsection.
(B) WATERSHED APPROACH.—In furtherance
of the watershed approach to resource pres-
ervation and enhancement described in the
Stewardship Plan, the covered tributaries
are recognized as integral to the protection
and enhancement of the river segments.
(C) REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPREHENSIVE
MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The Stewardship Plan
shall be considered to satisfy each require-
ment for a comprehensive management plan
required under section 3(d) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—To provide
for the long-term protection, preservation,
and enhancement of each river segment, in
accordance with sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1226 February 12, 2019
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)), the Secretary may enter
into cooperative agreements (which may in-
clude provisions for financial or other assist-
ance from the Federal Government) with—
(A) the States of Connecticut and Rhode
Island;
(B) political subdivisions of the States of
Connecticut and Rhode Island, including—
(i) the towns of North Stonington, Ster-
ling, Stonington, and Voluntown, Con-
necticut; and
(ii) the towns of Charlestown, Exeter,
Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Richmond,
South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Kingstown, Rhode Island;
(C) the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic
Rivers Stewardship Council; and
(D) any appropriate nonprofit organiza-
tion, as determined by the Secretary.
(4) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each river segment shall not be—
(A) administered as a unit of the National
Park System; or
(B) subject to the laws (including regula-
tions) that govern the administration of the
National Park System.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—The zoning ordi-
nances adopted by the towns of North
Stonington, Sterling, Stonington, and
Voluntown, Connecticut, and Charlestown,
Exeter, Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Rich-
mond, South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Greenwich, Rhode Island (including any pro-
vision of the zoning ordinances relating to
the conservation of floodplains, wetlands,
and watercourses associated with any river
segment), shall be considered to satisfy the
standards and requirements described in sec-
tion 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) VILLAGES.—For purposes of section 6(c)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1277(c)), each town described in subparagraph
(A) shall be considered to be a village.
(C) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(i) LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF SEC-
RETARY.—With respect to each river seg-
ment, the Secretary may only acquire par-
cels of land—
(I) by donation; or
(II) with the consent of the owner of the
parcel of land.
(ii) PROHIBITION RELATING TO THE ACQUISI-
TION OF LAND BY CONDEMNATION.—In accord-
ance with 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)), with respect to each
river segment, the Secretary may not ac-
quire any parcel of land by condemnation.
SEC. 1303. NASHUA WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS,
MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW HAMP-
SHIRE.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended
by section 1302(a)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(227) NASHUA, SQUANNACOOK, AND
NISSITISSIT WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, MASSA-
CHUSETTS AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.—
‘‘(A) The following segments in the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts and State of
New Hampshire, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a scenic river:
‘‘(i) The approximately 27-mile segment of
the mainstem of the Nashua River from the
confluence of the North and South Nashua
Rivers in Lancaster, Massachusetts, and ex-
tending north to the Massachusetts-New
Hampshire border, except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B).
‘‘(ii) The approximately 16.3-mile segment
of the Squannacook River from its head-
waters in Ash Swamp, Townsend, Massachu-
setts, extending downstream to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Shirley/Ayer, Massachusetts, except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(iii) The approximately 9.5-mile segment
of the Nissitissit River from its headwaters
in Brookline, New Hampshire, to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Pepperell, Massachusetts.
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION AREAS.—The designation of
the river segments in subparagraph (A) shall
exclude—
‘‘(i) with respect to the Ice House hydro-
electric project (FERC P–12769), from 700 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 500
feet downstream from the crest of the dam;
‘‘(ii) with respect to the Pepperell hydro-
electric project (FERC P12721), from 9,240
feet upstream from the crest of the dam to
1,000 feet downstream from the crest of the
dam; and
‘‘(iii) with respect to the Hollingsworth
and Vose dam (non-FERC), from 1,200 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 2,665
feet downstream from the crest of the dam.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)) shall be
managed in accordance with—
(i) the Nashua, Squannacook, and
Nissitissit Rivers Stewardship Plan devel-
oped pursuant to the study described in sec-
tion 5(b)(21) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)(21)) (referred to in this
subsection as the ‘‘management plan’’),
dated February 15, 2018; and
(ii) such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section and as are approved
by the Nashua, Squannacook, and Nissitissit
Rivers Stewardship Council (referred to in
this subsection as the ‘‘Stewardship Coun-
cil’’).
(B) COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
The management plan shall be considered to
satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive
management plan under section 3(d) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Stewardship Council, as specified in the
management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)), the Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1))
with—
(i) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and the State of New Hampshire;
(ii) the municipalities of—
(I) Ayer, Bolton, Dunstable, Groton, Har-
vard, Lancaster, Pepperell, Shirley, and
Townsend in Massachusetts; and
(II) Brookline and Hollis in New Hamp-
shire; and
(iii) appropriate local, regional, State, or
multistate, planning, environmental, or rec-
reational organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—Each cooperative agree-
ment entered into under this paragraph shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) EFFECT ON WORKING DAMS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The designation of the
river segments by paragraph (227) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)),
does not—
(i) impact or alter the existing terms of
permitting, licensing, or operation of—
(I) the Pepperell hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12721, Nashua River,
Pepperell, MA);
(II) the Ice House hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12769, Nashua River, Ayer,
MA); or
(III) the Hollingsworth and Vose Dam (non-
FERC industrial facility, Squannacook
River, West Groton, MA) as further described
in the management plan (Appendix A,
‘‘Working Dams’’); or
(ii) preclude the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission from licensing, reli-
censing, or otherwise authorizing the oper-
ation or continued operation of the Pepperell
and Ice House hydroelectric projects under
the terms of licenses or exemptions in effect
on the date of enactment of this Act; or
(iii) limit actions taken to modernize, up-
grade, or carry out other changes to such
projects authorized pursuant to clause (i),
subject to written determination by the Sec-
retary that the changes are consistent with
the purposes of the designation.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purpose
of the segments designated by paragraph
(227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by
subsection (a)), the zoning ordinances adopt-
ed by the municipalities described in para-
graph (3)(A)(ii), including provisions for con-
servation of floodplains, wetlands, and wa-
tercourses associated with the segments,
shall be deemed to satisfy the standards and
requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITIONS OF LANDS.—The authority
of the Secretary to acquire land for the pur-
poses of the segments designated by para-
graph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)) shall be—
(i) limited to acquisition by donation or
acquisition with the consent of the owner of
the land; and
(ii) subject to the additional criteria set
forth in the management plan.
(C) NO CONDEMNATION.—No land or interest
in land within the boundary of the river seg-
ments designated by paragraph (227) of sec-
tion 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a))
may be acquired by condemnation.
(6) RELATION TO THE NATIONAL PARK SYS-
TEM.—Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act(16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each segment of the Nashua, Squannacook,
and Nissitissit Rivers designated as a compo-
nent of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System
under this section shall not—
(A) be administered as a unit of the Na-
tional Park System; or
(B) be subject to regulations that govern
the National Park System.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Con-
servation Area’’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by the Department of the Inte-
rior; or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1227
February 12, 2019
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS
IN THE CALIFORNIA DESERT CON-
SERVATION AREA
SEC. 1411. CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION
AND RECREATION.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—Section 102 of the California
Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; Public Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(70) AVAWATZ MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the California Desert Con-
servation Area administered by the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management, com-
prising approximately 89,500 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’ and
dated November 7, 2018, to be known as the
‘Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(71) GREAT FALLS BASIN WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area administered by the Director of
the Bureau of Land Management, comprising
approximately 7,810 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed Great
Falls Basin Wilderness’ and dated November
7, 2018, to be known as the ‘Great Falls Basin
Wilderness’.
‘‘(72) SODA MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area, administered by the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 80,090 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Soda Mountains
Wilderness’ and dated November 7, 2018, to be
known as the ‘Soda Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(73) MILPITAS WASH WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
17,250 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’.
‘‘(74) BUZZARDS PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
11,840 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’.’’.
(b) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREAS ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF
LAND MANAGEMENT.—In furtherance of the
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.), the following land in the State is
designated as wilderness and as components
of the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem:
(1) GOLDEN VALLEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 1,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Golden Valley Wilderness Ad-
dition’’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Golden Valley Wilderness’’.
(2) KINGSTON RANGE WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 52,410
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Kingston Range Wilderness
Additions’’ and dated November 7, 2018,
which shall be added to and administered as
part of the ‘‘Kingston Range Wilderness’’.
(3) PALO VERDE MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 9,350 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness Additions’’
on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash
Special Management Area and Proposed Wil-
derness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness’’.
(4) INDIAN PASS MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 10,860 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Indian Pass Wilderness Additions’’ on the
map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area and Proposed Wilder-
ness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Indian Pass Mountains Wilderness’’.
(c) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE.—In furtherance of the purposes of
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) the
following land in Death Valley National
Park is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, which shall be added to,
and administered as part of the Death Valley
National Park Wilderness established by sec-
tion 601(a)(1) of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public
Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4496):
(1) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-NORTH EUREKA VALLEY.—Ap-
proximately 11,496 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley
National Park Proposed Wilderness Area-
North Eureka Valley’’, numbered 143/
100,082D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(2) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-IBEX.—Approximately 23,650
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Wilderness Area-Ibex’’, numbered 143/
100,081D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(3) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-PANAMINT VALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 4,807 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Panamint
Valley’’, numbered 143/100,083D, and dated
November 1, 2018.
(4) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-WARM SPRINGS.—Approxi-
mately 10,485 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Warm
Spring Canyon/Galena Canyon’’, numbered
143/100,084D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(5) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-AXE HEAD.—Approximately
8,638 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Pro-
posed Wilderness Area-Axe Head’’, numbered
143/100,085D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(6) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-BOWLING ALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 28,923 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Bowling
Alley’’, numbered 143/128,606A, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018.
(d) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREA ADMINISTERED BY THE FOREST SERV-
ICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In furtherance of the pur-
poses of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), the land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System; and
(B) shall be added to and administered as
part of the San Gorgonio Wilderness estab-
lished by the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) is certain land in
the San Bernardino National Forest, com-
prising approximately 7,141 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Gorgonio Wilderness Additions—Proposed’’
and dated November 7, 2018.
(3) FIRE MANAGEMENT AND RELATED ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may carry
out such activities in the wilderness area
designated by paragraph (1) as are necessary
for the control of fire, insects, and disease, in
accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Re-
port 98–40 of the 98th Congress.
(B) FUNDING PRIORITIES.—Nothing in this
subsection limits the provision of any fund-
ing for fire or fuel management in the wil-
derness area designated by paragraph (1).
(C) REVISION AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL
FIRE MANAGEMENT PLANS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall amend the local fire
management plans that apply to the wilder-
ness area designated by paragraph (1).
(D) ADMINISTRATION.—In accordance with
subparagraph (A) and other applicable Fed-
eral law, to ensure a timely and efficient re-
sponse to fire emergencies in the wilderness
area designated by paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall—
(i) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, establish agency ap-
proval procedures (including appropriate del-
egations of authority to the Forest Super-
visor, District Manager, or other agency offi-
cials) for responding to fire emergencies in
the wilderness area designated by paragraph
(1); and
(ii) enter into agreements with appropriate
State or local firefighting agencies relating
to the wilderness area.
(e) EFFECT ON UTILITY FACILITIES AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—Nothing in this section or
an amendment made by this section affects
or precludes the renewal or reauthorization
of any valid existing right-of-way or cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, repair, up-
grading, or replacement activities in a right-
of-way acquired by or issued, granted, or per-
mitted to the Southern California Edison
Company or successors or assigns of the
Southern California Edison Company.
(f) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—
(1) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for pur-
poses of section 603 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1782), any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act has been adequately studied
for wilderness designation.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF STUDY AREAS.—The
study areas referred to in subsection (a)
are—
(A) the Cady Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(B) the Soda Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(C) the Kingston Range Wilderness Study
Area;
(D) the Avawatz Mountain Wilderness
Study Area;
(E) the Death Valley 17 Wilderness Study
Area; and
(F) the Great Falls Basin Wilderness Study
Area.
(3) RELEASE.—The following are no longer
subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)):
(A) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1228 February 12, 2019
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not trans-
ferred to the administrative jurisdiction of
the National Park Service for inclusion in a
unit of the National Park System by this
subtitle (including an amendment made by
this subtitle) or any other Act enacted be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
SEC. 1421. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
Title I of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 109. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term ‘Man-
agement Area’ means the Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area established by sub-
section (b).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Special
Management Area and Proposed Wilderness’
and dated December 4, 2018.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC LAND.—The term ‘public land’
has the meaning given the term ‘public
lands’ in section 103 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1702).
‘‘(4) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Vinagre Wash Special Management Area
in the State, to be managed by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(c) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Manage-
ment Area is to conserve, protect, and en-
hance—
‘‘(1) the plant and wildlife values of the
Management Area; and
‘‘(2) the outstanding and nationally signifi-
cant ecological, geological, scenic, rec-
reational, archaeological, cultural, historic,
and other resources of the Management
Area.
‘‘(d) BOUNDARIES.—The Management Area
shall consist of the public land in Imperial
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 81,880 acres, as generally depicted on
the map as ‘Proposed Special Management
Area’.
‘‘(e) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall submit a map and legal description of
the Management Area to—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal descrip-
tion submitted under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct any errors in the map and legal
description.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY.—Copies of the map sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(f) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
manage the Management Area—
‘‘(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Management Area is established; and
‘‘(B) in accordance with—
‘‘(i) this section;
‘‘(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(iii) other applicable laws.
‘‘(2) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
those uses that are consistent with the pur-
poses of the Management Area, including
hiking, camping, hunting, and sightseeing
and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain
bikes, and horses on designated routes in the
Management Area in a manner that—
‘‘(A) is consistent with the purpose of the
Management Area described in subsection
(c);
‘‘(B) ensures public health and safety; and
‘‘(C) is consistent with all applicable laws
(including regulations), including the Desert
Renewable Energy Conservation Plan.
‘‘(3) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) and all other applicable
laws, the use of off-highway vehicles shall be
permitted on routes in the Management Area
as generally depicted on the map.
‘‘(B) CLOSURE.—The Secretary may close or
permanently reroute a portion of a route de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) to prevent, or allow for restoration of,
resource damage;
‘‘(ii) to protect Tribal cultural resources,
including the resources identified in the
Tribal cultural resources management plan
developed under section 705(d);
‘‘(iii) to address public safety concerns; or
‘‘(iv) as otherwise required by law.
‘‘(C) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL ROUTES.—
During the 3-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(i) shall accept petitions from the public
regarding additional routes for off-highway
vehicles; and
‘‘(ii) may designate additional routes that
the Secretary determines—
‘‘(I) would provide significant or unique
recreational opportunities; and
‘‘(II) are consistent with the purposes of
the Management Area.
‘‘(4) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the Man-
agement Area is withdrawn from—
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to—
‘‘(i) minerals and mineral materials; or
‘‘(ii) solar, wind, and geothermal energy.
‘‘(5) NO BUFFER ZONE.—The establishment
of the Management Area shall not—
‘‘(A) create a protective perimeter or buff-
er zone around the Management Area; or
‘‘(B) preclude uses or activities outside the
Management Area that are permitted under
other applicable laws, even if the uses or ac-
tivities are prohibited within the Manage-
ment Area.
‘‘(6) NOTICE OF AVAILABLE ROUTES.—The
Secretary shall ensure that visitors to the
Management Area have access to adequate
notice relating to the availability of des-
ignated routes in the Management Area
through—
‘‘(A) the placement of appropriate signage
along the designated routes;
‘‘(B) the distribution of maps, safety edu-
cation materials, and other information that
the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
and
‘‘(C) restoration of areas that are not des-
ignated as open routes, including vertical
mulching.
‘‘(7) STEWARDSHIP.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with Indian Tribes and other inter-
ests, shall develop a program to provide op-
portunities for monitoring and stewardship
of the Management Area to minimize envi-
ronmental impacts and prevent resource
damage from recreational use, including vol-
unteer assistance with—
‘‘(A) route signage;
‘‘(B) restoration of closed routes;
‘‘(C) protection of Management Area re-
sources; and
‘‘(D) recreation education.
‘‘(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL RE-
SOURCES.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary, in accordance with chapter 2003 of
title 54, United States Code, and any other
applicable law, shall—
‘‘(A) prepare and complete a Tribal cul-
tural resources survey of the Management
Area; and
‘‘(B) consult with the Quechan Indian Na-
tion and other Indian Tribes demonstrating
ancestral, cultural, or other ties to the re-
sources within the Management Area on the
development and implementation of the
Tribal cultural resources survey under sub-
paragraph (A).
‘‘(9) MILITARY USE.—The Secretary may au-
thorize use of the non-wilderness portion of
the Management Area by the Secretary of
the Navy for Naval Special Warfare Tactical
Training, including long-range small unit
training and navigation, vehicle conceal-
ment, and vehicle sustainment training, con-
sistent with this section and other applicable
laws.’’.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
SEC. 1431. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK
BOUNDARY REVISION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of Death
Valley National Park is adjusted to in-
clude—
(1) the approximately 28,923 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land in San
Bernardino County, California, abutting the
southern end of the Death Valley National
Park that lies between Death Valley Na-
tional Park to the north and Ft. Irwin Mili-
tary Reservation to the south and which
runs approximately 34 miles from west to
east, as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Death
Valley National Park Proposed Boundary
Addition-Bowling Alley’’, numbered 143/
128,605A, and dated November 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 6,369 acres of Bureau
of Land Management land in Inyo County,
California, located in the northeast area of
Death Valley National Park that is within,
and surrounded by, land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Director of the National Park
Service, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Boundary Addition-Crater’’, numbered 143/
100,079D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The maps de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-
section (a) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the National Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary—
(1) shall administer any land added to
Death Valley National Park under sub-
section (a)—
(A) as part of Death Valley National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(2) may enter into a memorandum of un-
derstanding with Inyo County, California, to
permit operationally feasible, ongoing access
to and use (including material storage and
excavation) of existing gravel pits along Sa-
line Valley Road within Death Valley Na-
tional Park for road maintenance and re-
pairs in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(d) MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.—
Title VI of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4496) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1229
February 12, 2019
‘‘SEC. 604. MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.
‘‘The designation of the Death Valley Na-
tional Park Wilderness by section 601(a)(1)
shall not preclude the operation and mainte-
nance of the Mormon Peak Microwave Facil-
ity.’’.
SEC. 1432. MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE.
The boundary of the Mojave National Pre-
serve is adjusted to include the 25 acres of
Bureau of Land Management land in Baker,
California, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Mojave National Preserve Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’, numbered 170/100,199A, and
dated November 1, 2018.
SEC. 1433. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Joshua Tree National Park is adjusted
to include—
(1) the approximately 2,879 acres of land
managed by the Bureau of Land Management
that are depicted as ‘‘BLM Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Proposed Boundary Ad-
ditions’’, numbered 156/149,375, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 1,639 acres of land
that are depicted as ‘‘MDLT Proposed
Boundary Addition’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Joshua Tree National Park Proposed
Boundary Additions’’, numbered 156/149,375,
and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAPS.—The map de-
scribed in subsection (a) and the map depict-
ing the 25 acres described in subsection (c)(2)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the Na-
tional Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister any land added to the Joshua Tree
National Park under subsection (a) and the
additional land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) as part of Joshua Tree National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.—The
additional land referred to in paragraph (1) is
the 25 acres of land—
(A) depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Boundary Adjustment
Map’’, numbered 156/80,049, and dated April 1,
2003;
(B) added to Joshua Tree National Park by
the notice of the Department of the Interior
of August 28, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 51799); and
(C) more particularly described as lots 26,
27, 28, 33, and 34 in sec. 34, T. 1 N., R. 8 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian.
(d) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
ENERGY TRANSPORT FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-
OF-WAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects any valid right-of-way for the cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, upgrade, re-
pair, relocation within an existing right-of-
way, replacement, or other authorized en-
ergy transport facility activities in a right-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted to the
Southern California Edison Company or the
successors or assigns of the Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company that is located on
land described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a), including, at a minimum, the
use of mechanized vehicles, helicopters, or
other aerial devices.
(2) UPGRADES AND REPLACEMENTS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the upgrading or re-
placement of—
(A) Southern California Edison Company
energy transport facilities, including the en-
ergy transport facilities referred to as the
Jellystone, Burnt Mountain, Whitehorn,
Allegra, and Utah distribution circuits
rights-of-way; or
(B) an energy transport facility in rights-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted by the
Secretary adjacent to Southern California
Edison Joshua Tree Utility Facilities.
(3) PUBLICATION OF PLANS.—Not later than
the date that is 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act or the issuance of a new
energy transport facility right-of-way within
the Joshua Tree National Park, whichever is
earlier, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Southern California Edison Company,
shall publish plans for regular and emer-
gency access by the Southern California Edi-
son Company to the rights-of-way of the
Southern California Edison Company within
Joshua Tree National Park.
(e) VISITOR CENTER.—Title IV of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–21 et seq.) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 408. VISITOR CENTER.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire not more than 5 acres of land and in-
terests in land, and improvements on the
land and interests, outside the boundaries of
the park, in the unincorporated village of
Joshua Tree, for the purpose of operating a
visitor center.
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY.—The Secretary shall mod-
ify the boundary of the park to include the
land acquired under this section as a non-
contiguous parcel.
‘‘(c) ADMINISTRATION.—Land and facilities
acquired under this section—
‘‘(1) may include the property owned (as of
the date of enactment of this section) by the
Joshua Tree National Park Association and
commonly referred to as the ‘Joshua Tree
National Park Visitor Center’;
‘‘(2) shall be administered by the Secretary
as part of the park; and
‘‘(3) may be acquired only with the consent
of the owner, by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.’’.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
SEC. 1441. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS.
Public Law 103–433 is amended by inserting
after title XII (16 U.S.C. 410bbb et seq.) the
following:
‘‘TITLE XIII—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
‘‘SEC. 1301. DESIGNATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREAS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and resource man-
agement plans developed under this title and
subject to valid rights, the following land
within the Conservation Area in San
Bernardino County, California, is designated
as Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas:
‘‘(A) DUMONT DUNES OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 7,620 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Dumont Dunes OHV Recreation Area’
and dated November 7, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Dumont Dunes Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(B) EL MIRAGE OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 16,370 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed El Mirage OHV Recreation Area’ and
dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘El Mirage Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(C) RASOR OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECRE-
ATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land Man-
agement land in the Conservation Area, com-
prising approximately 23,900 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Rasor OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018, which shall be known as
the ‘Rasor Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation
Area’.
‘‘(D) SPANGLER HILLS OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 92,340 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Spangler Hills OHV Recreation Area’
and dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Spangler Hills Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(E) STODDARD VALLEY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of
Land Management land in the Conservation
Area, comprising approximately 40,110 acres,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘Proposed Stoddard Valley OHV Recreation
Area’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be known as the ‘Stoddard Valley Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(2) EXPANSION OF JOHNSON VALLEY OFF-
HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.—The
Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recre-
ation Area designated by section 2945 of the
Military Construction Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law
113–66; 127 Stat. 1038) is expanded to include
approximately 20,240 acres, depicted as ‘Pro-
posed OHV Recreation Area Additions’ and
‘Proposed OHV Recreation Area Study
Areas’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed John-
son Valley OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation areas designated or
expanded under subsection (a) is to preserve
and enhance the recreational opportunities
within the Conservation Area (including op-
portunities for off-highway vehicle recre-
ation), while conserving the wildlife and
other natural resource values of the Con-
servation Area.
‘‘(c) MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION.—As
soon as practicable after the date of enact-
ment of this title, the Secretary shall file a
map and legal description of each off-high-
way vehicle recreation area designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a) with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) LEGAL EFFECT.—The map and legal de-
scriptions of the off-highway vehicle recre-
ation areas filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct errors in the map and legal descrip-
tions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be filed and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(d) USE OF THE LAND.—
‘‘(1) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
tinue to authorize, maintain, and enhance
the recreational uses of the off-highway ve-
hicle recreation areas designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a), as long as the rec-
reational use is consistent with this section
and any other applicable law.
‘‘(B) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE AND OFF-HIGH-
WAY RECREATION.—To the extent consistent
with applicable Federal law (including regu-
lations) and this section, any authorized
recreation activities and use designations in
effect on the date of enactment of this title
and applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) shall continue, including cas-
ual off-highway vehicular use, racing, com-
petitive events, rock crawling, training, and
other forms of off-highway recreation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1230 February 12, 2019
‘‘(2) WILDLIFE GUZZLERS.—Wildlife guzzlers
shall be allowed in the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) applicable Bureau of Land Manage-
ment guidelines; and
‘‘(B) State law.
‘‘(3) PROHIBITED USES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), commercial development
(including development of energy facilities,
but excluding energy transport facilities,
rights-of-way, and related telecommuni-
cation facilities) shall be prohibited in the
off-highway vehicle recreation areas des-
ignated or expanded by subsection (a) if the
Secretary determines that the development
is incompatible with the purpose described
in subsection (b).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may issue
a temporary permit to a commercial vendor
to provide accessories and other support for
off-highway vehicle use in an off-highway ve-
hicle recreation area designated or expanded
by subsection (a) for a limited period and
consistent with the purposes of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation area and applicable
laws.
‘‘(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the off-highway vehicle recreation
areas designated or expanded by subsection
(a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) this title;
‘‘(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws (including
regulations).
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years after the date of
enactment of this title, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) amend existing resource management
plans applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) develop new management plans for
each off-highway vehicle recreation area des-
ignated or expanded under that subsection.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—All new or amended
plans under subparagraph (A) shall be de-
signed to preserve and enhance safe off-high-
way vehicle and other recreational opportu-
nities within the applicable recreation area
consistent with—
‘‘(i) the purpose described in subsection (b);
and
‘‘(ii) any applicable laws (including regula-
tions).
‘‘(C) INTERIM PLANS.—Pending completion
of a new management plan under subpara-
graph (A), the existing resource management
plans shall govern the use of the applicable
off-highway vehicle recreation area.
‘‘(f) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the off-
highway vehicle recreation areas designated
or expanded by subsection (a) is withdrawn
from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to mineral leasing,
geothermal leasing, or mineral materials.
‘‘(g) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COM-
PANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized energy transport facility activities
(including the use of any mechanized vehi-
cle, helicopter, and other aerial device) in a
right-of-way acquired by or issued, granted,
or permitted to Southern California Edison
Company (including any successor in inter-
est or assign) that is located on land in-
cluded in—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area;
‘‘(B) affects the application, siting, route
selection, right-of-way acquisition, or con-
struction of the Coolwater-Lugo trans-
mission project, as may be approved by the
California Public Utilities Commission and
the Bureau of Land Management; or
‘‘(C) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any Southern California Edison
Company—
‘‘(i) utility facility, including such a util-
ity facility known on the date of enactment
of this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gale-PS 512 transmission lines or
rights-of-way’;
‘‘(II) ‘Patio, Jack Ranch, and Kenworth
distribution circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(III) ‘Bessemer and Peacor distribution
circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) energy transport facility in a right-of-
way issued, granted, or permitted by the
Secretary adjacent to a utility facility re-
ferred to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Southern California
Edison Company, shall publish plans for reg-
ular and emergency access by the Southern
California Edison Company to the rights-of-
way of the Company by the date that is 1
year after the later of—
‘‘(A) the date of enactment of this title;
and
‘‘(B) the date of issuance of a new energy
transport facility right-of-way within—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area.
‘‘(h) PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized activity (including the use of any
mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other
aerial device) in a right-of-way acquired by
or issued, granted, or permitted to Pacific
Gas and Electric Company (including any
successor in interest or assign) that is lo-
cated on land included in the Spangler Hills
Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(B) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any—
‘‘(i) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and
Electric Company, including those utility fa-
cilities known on the date of enactment of
this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gas Transmission Line 311 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(II) ‘Gas Transmission Line 372 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company in rights-of-way
issued, granted, or permitted by the Sec-
retary adjacent to a utility facility referred
to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this title
or the issuance of a new utility facility
right-of-way within the Spangler Hills Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area, whichever
is later, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall
publish plans for regular and emergency ac-
cess by the Pacific Gas and Electric Com-
pany to the rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company.
‘‘TITLE XIV—ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL
SCENIC AREA
‘‘SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘man-
agement plan’ means the management plan
for the Scenic Area developed under section
1403(a).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘Map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Alabama Hills National
Scenic Area’ and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLE.—The term ‘mo-
torized vehicle’ means a motorized or mecha-
nized vehicle and includes, when used by a
utility, mechanized equipment, a helicopter,
and any other aerial device necessary to
maintain electrical or communications in-
frastructure.
‘‘(4) SCENIC AREA.—The term ‘Scenic Area’
means the Alabama Hills National Scenic
Area established by section 1402(a).
‘‘(5) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(6) TRIBE.—The term ‘Tribe’ means the
Lone Pine Paiute-Shoshone Tribe.
‘‘SEC. 1402. ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL SCENIC
AREA, CALIFORNIA.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, there is established in Inyo
County, California, the Alabama Hills Na-
tional Scenic Area, to be comprised of the
approximately 18,610 acres generally de-
picted on the Map as ‘National Scenic Area’.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Scenic
Area is to conserve, protect, and enhance for
the benefit, use, and enjoyment of present
and future generations the nationally sig-
nificant scenic, cultural, geological, edu-
cational, biological, historical, recreational,
cinematographic, and scientific resources of
the Scenic Area managed consistent with
section 302(a) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(a)).
‘‘(c) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of the Scenic Area with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct any clerical and typographical errors
in the map and legal descriptions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
manage the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System;
‘‘(2) so as not to impact the future con-
tinuing operation and maintenance of any
activities associated with valid, existing
rights, including water rights;
‘‘(3) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Scenic Area described in subsection (b); and
‘‘(4) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
‘‘(B) this title; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1231
February 12, 2019
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws.
‘‘(e) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
allow only such uses of the Scenic Area as
the Secretary determines would further the
purposes of the Scenic Area as described in
subsection (b).
‘‘(2) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—Except as
otherwise provided in this title or other ap-
plicable law, or as the Secretary determines
to be necessary for public health and safety,
the Secretary shall allow existing rec-
reational uses of the Scenic Area to con-
tinue, including hiking, mountain biking,
rock climbing, sightseeing, horseback riding,
hunting, fishing, and appropriate authorized
motorized vehicle use in accordance with
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as oth-
erwise specified in this title, or as necessary
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Scenic Area shall be permitted only
on—
‘‘(A) roads and trails designated by the
Secretary for use of motorized vehicles as
part of a management plan sustaining a
semiprimitive motorized experience; or
‘‘(B) county-maintained roads in accord-
ance with applicable State and county laws.
‘‘(f) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this title cre-
ates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE SCENIC AREA.—The
fact that an activity or use on land outside
the Scenic Area can be seen or heard within
the Scenic Area shall not preclude the activ-
ity or use outside the boundaries of the Sce-
nic Area.
‘‘(g) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
private landowners adequate access to
inholdings in the Scenic Area.
‘‘(h) FILMING.—Nothing in this title pro-
hibits filming (including commercial film
production, student filming, and still pho-
tography) within the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(i) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
title affects the jurisdiction or responsibil-
ities of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife.
‘‘(j) LIVESTOCK.—The grazing of livestock
in the Scenic Area, including grazing under
the Alabama Hills allotment and the George
Creek allotment, as established before the
date of enactment of this title, shall be per-
mitted to continue—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(k) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to the provi-
sions of this title and valid rights in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this title,
including rights established by prior with-
drawals, the Federal land within the Scenic
Area is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
‘‘(l) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this title prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Sce-
nic Area, consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (b).
‘‘(m) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with, State, Tribal, and local govern-
mental entities and private entities to con-
duct research, interpretation, or public edu-
cation or to carry out any other initiative
relating to the restoration, conservation, or
management of the Scenic Area.
‘‘(n) UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects the existence, use, operation,
maintenance (including vegetation control),
repair, construction, reconfiguration, expan-
sion, inspection, renewal, reconstruction, al-
teration, addition, relocation, improvement,
funding, removal, or replacement of any util-
ity facility or appurtenant right-of-way
within or adjacent to the Scenic Area;
‘‘(B) subject to subsection (e), affects nec-
essary or efficient access to utility facilities
or rights-of-way within or adjacent to the
Scenic Area; and
‘‘(C) precludes the Secretary from author-
izing the establishment of new utility facil-
ity rights-of-way (including instream sites,
routes, and areas) within the Scenic Area in
a manner that minimizes harm to the pur-
pose of the Scenic Area as described in sub-
section (b)—
‘‘(i) in accordance with the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) and any other applicable law;
‘‘(ii) subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary determines to be appro-
priate; and
‘‘(iii) that are determined by the Secretary
to be the only technical or feasible location,
following consideration of alternatives with-
in existing rights-of-way or outside of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Consistent with
this title, the Management Plan shall estab-
lish provisions for maintenance of public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘SEC. 1403. MANAGEMENT PLAN.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this title, in
accordance with subsections (b) and (c), the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
plan for the long-term management of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(b) CONSULTATION.—In developing the
management plan, the Secretary shall con-
sult with—
‘‘(1) appropriate State, Tribal, and local
governmental entities, including Inyo Coun-
ty and the Tribe;
‘‘(2) utilities, including Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company and the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power;
‘‘(3) the Alabama Hills Stewardship Group;
and
‘‘(4) members of the public.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENT.—In accordance with
this title, the management plan shall include
provisions for maintenance of existing public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(d) INCORPORATION.—In developing the
management plan, in accordance with this
section, the Secretary may allow casual use
mining limited to the use of hand tools,
metal detectors, hand-fed dry washers, vacu-
um cleaners, gold pans, small sluices, and
similar items.
‘‘(e) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Pending com-
pletion of the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall manage the Scenic Area in ac-
cordance with section 1402(b).
‘‘SEC. 1404. LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST FOR LONE
PINE PAIUTE-SHOSHONE RESERVA-
TION.
‘‘(a) TRUST LAND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On completion of the
survey described in subsection (b), all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the approximately 132 acres of Fed-
eral land depicted on the Map as ‘Lone Pine
Paiute-Shoshone Reservation Addition’ shall
be held in trust for the benefit of the Tribe,
subject to paragraphs (2) and (3).
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—The land described in
paragraph (1) shall be subject to all ease-
ments, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
withdrawals, and other matters of record in
existence on the date of enactment of this
title.
‘‘(3) EXCLUSION.—The Federal land over
which the right-of-way for the Los Angeles
Aqueduct is located, generally described as
the 250-foot-wide right-of-way granted to the
City of Los Angeles pursuant to the Act of
June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 801, chapter 3926), shall
not be taken into trust for the Tribe.
‘‘(b) SURVEY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the bound-
ary lines to establish the boundaries of the
land to be held in trust under subsection
(a)(1).
‘‘(c) RESERVATION LAND.—The land held in
trust pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be
considered to be a part of the reservation of
the Tribe.
‘‘(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—Land held in
trust under subsection (a)(1) shall not be eli-
gible, or considered to have been taken into
trust, for gaming (within the meaning of the
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C.
2701 et seq.)).
‘‘SEC. 1405. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JU-
RISDICTION.
‘‘Administrative jurisdiction over the ap-
proximately 56 acres of Federal land depicted
on the Map as ‘USFS Transfer to BLM’ is
transferred from the Forest Service to the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘SEC. 1406. PROTECTION OF SERVICES AND REC-
REATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.
‘‘(a) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title limits commercial services for existing
or historic recreation uses, as authorized by
the permit process of the Bureau of Land
Management.
‘‘(b) GUIDED RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNI-
TIES.—Commercial permits to exercise guid-
ed recreational opportunities for the public
that are authorized as of the date of enact-
ment of this title may continue to be author-
ized.’’.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 1451. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 712. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On termination of all
mining claims to the land described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall transfer the
land described in that subsection to the
State of California.
‘‘(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is certain Bureau
of Land Management land in San Diego
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 934 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Table Mountain
Wilderness Study Area Transfer to the State’
and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(c) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The land transferred
under subsection (a) shall be managed in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40).
‘‘(2) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the land transferred under sub-
section (a) is withdrawn from—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1232 February 12, 2019
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
‘‘(3) REVERSION.—If the State ceases to
manage the land transferred under sub-
section (a) as part of the State Park System
or in a manner inconsistent with the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40), the
land shall revert to the Secretary at the dis-
cretion of the Secretary, to be managed as a
Wilderness Study Area.’’.
SEC. 1452. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1451) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 713. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) assess the impacts of habitat frag-
mentation on wildlife in the California
Desert Conservation Area; and
‘‘(2) establish policies and procedures to
ensure the preservation of wildlife corridors
and facilitate species migration.
‘‘(b) STUDY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 2 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall complete a study regarding the impact
of habitat fragmentation on wildlife in the
California Desert Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) COMPONENTS.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) identify the species migrating, or
likely to migrate in the California Desert
Conservation Area;
‘‘(B) examine the impacts and potential
impacts of habitat fragmentation on—
‘‘(i) plants, insects, and animals;
‘‘(ii) soil;
‘‘(iii) air quality;
‘‘(iv) water quality and quantity; and
‘‘(v) species migration and survival;
‘‘(C) identify critical wildlife and species
migration corridors recommended for preser-
vation; and
‘‘(D) include recommendations for ensuring
the biological connectivity of public land
managed by the Secretary and the Secretary
of Defense throughout the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
consider the information and recommenda-
tions of the study under paragraph (1) to de-
termine the individual and cumulative im-
pacts of rights-of-way for projects in the
California Desert Conservation Area, in ac-
cordance with—
‘‘(A) the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
‘‘(B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable law.
‘‘(c) LAND MANAGEMENT PLANS.—The Sec-
retary shall incorporate into all land man-
agement plans applicable to the California
Desert Conservation Area the findings and
recommendations of the study completed
under subsection (b).’’.
SEC. 1453. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1452) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 714. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘acquired
land’ means any land acquired within the
Conservation Area using amounts from the
land and water conservation fund established
under section 200302 of title 54, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION LAND.—The term ‘con-
servation land’ means any land within the
Conservation Area that is designated to sat-
isfy the conditions of a Federal habitat con-
servation plan, general conservation plan, or
State natural communities conservation
plan, including—
‘‘(A) national conservation land estab-
lished pursuant to section 2002(b)(2)(D) of the
Omnibus Public Land Management Act of
2009 (16 U.S.C. 7202(b)(2)(D)); and
‘‘(B) areas of critical environmental con-
cern established pursuant to section 202(c)(3)
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(3)).
‘‘(4) DONATED LAND.—The term ‘donated
land’ means any private land donated to the
United States for conservation purposes in
the Conservation Area.
‘‘(5) DONOR.—The term ‘donor’ means an
individual or entity that donates private
land within the Conservation Area to the
United States.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(7) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(b) PROHIBITIONS.—Except as provided in
subsection (c), the Secretary shall not au-
thorize the use of acquired land, conserva-
tion land, or donated land within the Con-
servation Area for any activities contrary to
the conservation purposes for which the land
was acquired, designated, or donated, includ-
ing—
‘‘(1) disposal;
‘‘(2) rights-of-way;
‘‘(3) leases;
‘‘(4) livestock grazing;
‘‘(5) infrastructure development, except as
provided in subsection (c);
‘‘(6) mineral entry; and
‘‘(7) off-highway vehicle use, except on—
‘‘(A) designated routes;
‘‘(B) off-highway vehicle areas designated
by law; and
‘‘(C) administratively designated open
areas.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION BY SECRETARY.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may au-
thorize limited exceptions to prohibited uses
of acquired land or donated land in the Con-
servation Area if—
‘‘(A) a right-of-way application for a re-
newable energy development project or asso-
ciated energy transport facility on acquired
land or donated land was submitted to the
Bureau of Land Management on or before
December 1, 2009; or
‘‘(B) after the completion and consider-
ation of an analysis under the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.), the Secretary has determined that
proposed use is in the public interest.
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary grants
an exception to the prohibition under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall require the
permittee to donate private land of com-
parable value located within the Conserva-
tion Area to the United States to mitigate
the use.
‘‘(B) APPROVAL.—The private land to be do-
nated under subparagraph (A) shall be ap-
proved by the Secretary after—
‘‘(i) consultation, to the maximum extent
practicable, with the donor of the private
land proposed for nonconservation uses; and
‘‘(ii) an opportunity for public comment re-
garding the donation.
‘‘(d) EXISTING AGREEMENTS.—Nothing in
this section affects permitted or prohibited
uses of donated land or acquired land in the
Conservation Area established in any ease-
ments, deed restrictions, memoranda of un-
derstanding, or other agreements in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion.
‘‘(e) DEED RESTRICTIONS.—Effective begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, within the Conservation Area, the Sec-
retary may—
‘‘(1) accept deed restrictions requested by
landowners for land donated to, or otherwise
acquired by, the United States; and
‘‘(2) consistent with existing rights, create
deed restrictions, easements, or other third-
party rights relating to any public land de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary—
‘‘(A) to fulfill the mitigation requirements
resulting from the development of renewable
resources; or
‘‘(B) to satisfy the conditions of—
‘‘(i) a habitat conservation plan or general
conservation plan established pursuant to
section 10 of the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539); or
‘‘(ii) a natural communities conservation
plan approved by the State.’’.
SEC. 1454. TRIBAL USES AND INTERESTS.
Section 705 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–75) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall ensure
access to areas designated under this Act by
members of Indian Tribes for traditional cul-
tural and religious purposes, consistent with
applicable law, including Public Law 95–341
(commonly known as the ‘American Indian
Religious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996).
‘‘(b) TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, including Public Law 95–341 (com-
monly known as the ‘American Indian Reli-
gious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996), and sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, on re-
quest of an Indian Tribe or Indian religious
community, shall temporarily close to gen-
eral public use any portion of an area des-
ignated as a national monument, special
management area, wild and scenic river,
area of critical environmental concern, or
National Park System unit under this Act
(referred to in this subsection as a ‘des-
ignated area’) to protect the privacy of tradi-
tional cultural and religious activities in the
designated area by members of the Indian
Tribe or Indian religious community.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In closing a portion of a
designated area under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall limit the closure to the smallest
practicable area for the minimum period
necessary for the traditional cultural and re-
ligious activities.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary
shall develop and implement a Tribal cul-
tural resources management plan to iden-
tify, protect, and conserve cultural resources
of Indian Tribes associated with the Xam
Kwatchan Trail network extending from
Avikwaame (Spirit Mountain, Nevada) to
Avikwlal (Pilot Knob, California).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
consult on the development and implementa-
tion of the Tribal cultural resources manage-
ment plan under paragraph (1) with—
‘‘(A) each of—
‘‘(i) the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe;
‘‘(ii) the Hualapai Tribal Nation;
‘‘(iii) the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe;
‘‘(iv) the Colorado River Indian Tribes;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1233
February 12, 2019
‘‘(v) the Quechan Indian Tribe; and
‘‘(vi) the Cocopah Indian Tribe;
‘‘(B) the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation; and
‘‘(C) the State Historic Preservation Of-
fices of Nevada, Arizona, and California.
‘‘(3) RESOURCE PROTECTION.—The Tribal
cultural resources management plan devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be based on a completed Tribal cul-
tural resources survey; and
‘‘(B) include procedures for identifying,
protecting, and preserving petroglyphs, an-
cient trails, intaglios, sleeping circles, arti-
facts, and other resources of cultural, ar-
chaeological, or historical significance in ac-
cordance with all applicable laws and poli-
cies, including—
‘‘(i) chapter 2003 of title 54, United States
Code;
‘‘(ii) Public Law 95–341 (commonly known
as the ‘American Indian Religious Freedom
Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996);
‘‘(iii) the Archaeological Resources Protec-
tion Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.);
‘‘(iv) the Native American Graves Protec-
tion and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.); and
‘‘(v) Public Law 103–141 (commonly known
as the ‘Religious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993’) (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
‘‘(e) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the area
administratively withdrawn and known as
the ‘Indian Pass Withdrawal Area’ is perma-
nently withdrawn from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way leasing and disposition
under all laws relating to minerals or solar,
wind, or geothermal energy.’’.
SEC. 1455. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
LAND INTERESTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) 1932 ACT.—The term ‘‘1932 Act’’ means
the Act of June 18, 1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter
270).
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California.
(b) RELEASE.—Subject to valid existing
claims perfected prior to the effective date of
the 1932 Act and the reservation of minerals
set forth in the 1932 Act, the Secretary shall
release, convey, or otherwise quitclaim to
the District, in a form recordable in local
county records, and subject to the approval
of the District, after consultation and with-
out monetary consideration, all right, title,
and remaining interest of the United States
in and to the land that was conveyed to the
District pursuant to the 1932 Act or any
other law authorizing conveyance subject to
restrictions or reversionary interests re-
tained by the United States, on request by
the District.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—A conveyance
authorized by subsection (b) shall be subject
to the following terms and conditions:
(1) The District shall cover, or reimburse
the Secretary for, the costs incurred by the
Secretary to make the conveyance, includ-
ing title searches, surveys, deed preparation,
attorneys’ fees, and similar expenses.
(2) By accepting the conveyances, the Dis-
trict agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
the United States with regard to any bound-
ary dispute relating to any parcel conveyed
under this section.
SEC. 1456. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LAND.
Section 707 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–77) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by striking ‘‘Upon request of the Cali-
fornia State Lands Commission (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the ‘Commis-
sion’), the Secretary shall enter into nego-
tiations for an agreement’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ne-
gotiate in good faith to reach an agreement
with the California State Lands Commission
(referred to in this section as the ‘Commis-
sion’)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, national monuments,
off-highway vehicle recreation areas,’’ after
‘‘more of the wilderness areas’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary shall negotiate in good faith
to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—To the maximum extent
practicable, not later than 10 years after the
date of enactment of this title, the Secretary
shall’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ‘‘, na-
tional monuments, off-highway vehicle
recreation areas,’’ after ‘‘wilderness areas’’.
SEC. 1457. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC
RIVERS.
(a) AMARGOSA RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—Section
3(a)(196)(A) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(196)(A)) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximately 7.5-mile segment
of the Amargosa River in the State of Cali-
fornia, the private property boundary in sec.
19, T. 22 N., R. 7 E., to 100 feet upstream of
the Tecopa Hot Springs Road crossing, to be
administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as amended by section 1303(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(228) SURPRISE CANYON CREEK, CALI-
FORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Surprise Canyon Creek in the State of
California, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior:
‘‘(i) The approximately 5.3 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from the confluence of
Frenchman’s Canyon and Water Canyon to
100 feet upstream of Chris Wicht Camp, as a
wild river.
‘‘(ii) The approximately 1.8 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from 100 feet upstream of
Chris Wicht Camp to the southern boundary
of sec. 14, T. 21 S., R. 44 E., as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON HISTORIC MINING STRUC-
TURES.—Nothing in this paragraph affects
the historic mining structures associated
with the former Panamint Mining District.
‘‘(229) DEEP CREEK, CALIFORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Deep Creek in the State of California, to
be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture:
‘‘(i) The approximately 6.5-mile segment
from 0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow
Dam site in sec. 33, T. 2 N., R. 2 W., San
Bernardino Meridian, to 0.25 miles upstream
of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a wild river.
‘‘(ii) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 mile
upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Road 3N34 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(iii) The 2.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing to
0.25 miles upstream of the Trail 2W01 cross-
ing, as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) The 10-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the
upper limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in
sec. 17, T. 3 N., R. 3 W., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) The 11-mile segment of Holcomb
Creek from 100 yards downstream of the
Road 3N12 crossing to .25 miles downstream
of Holcomb Crossing, as a recreational river.
‘‘(vii) The 3.5-mile segment of the Holcomb
Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Hol-
comb Crossing to the Deep Creek confluence,
as a wild river.
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON SKI OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this paragraph affects—
‘‘(i) the operations of the Snow Valley Ski
Resort; or
‘‘(ii) the State regulation of water rights
and water quality associated with the oper-
ation of the Snow Valley Ski Resort.
‘‘(230) WHITEWATER RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—
The following segments of the Whitewater
River in the State of California, to be admin-
istered by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary of the Interior, acting jointly:
‘‘(A) The 5.8-mile segment of the North
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River near Mt. San Gorgonio to the con-
fluence with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 6.4-mile segment of the Middle
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River to the confluence with the South
Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the confluence of the
River with the East Fork to the section line
between sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(D) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the section line be-
tween sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, to the section line be-
tween sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The 4.9-mile segment of the South
Fork Whitewater River from the section line
between sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, to the confluence
with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(F) The 5.4-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the con-
fluence of the South and Middle Forks to the
San Gorgonio Wilderness boundary, as a wild
river.
‘‘(G) The 3.6-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the San
Gorgonio Wilderness boundary to .25 miles
upstream of the southern boundary of sec-
tion 35, T. 2 S., R. 3 E., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a recreational river.’’.
SEC. 1458. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—Section 1 of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa note; Public Law 103–433) is
amended by striking ‘‘1 and 2, and titles I
through IX’’ and inserting ‘‘1, 2, and 3, titles
I through IX, and titles XIII and XIV’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—The California Desert
Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–433;
108 Stat. 4471) is amended by inserting after
section 2 the following:
‘‘SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘(a) TITLES I THROUGH IX.—In titles I
through IX, the term ‘this Act’ means only—
‘‘(1) sections 1 and 2; and
‘‘(2) titles I through IX.
‘‘(b) TITLES XIII AND XIV.—In titles XIII
and XIV:
‘‘(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means—
‘‘(A) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of the Interior; and
‘‘(B) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Agriculture.
‘‘(3) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1234 February 12, 2019
SEC. 1459. JUNIPER FLATS.
The California Desert Protection Act of
1994 is amended by striking section 711 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–81) and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 711. JUNIPER FLATS.
‘‘Development of renewable energy genera-
tion facilities (excluding rights-of-way or fa-
cilities for the transmission of energy and
telecommunication facilities and infrastruc-
ture) is prohibited on the approximately
27,990 acres of Federal land generally de-
picted as ‘BLM Land Unavailable for Energy
Development’ on the map entitled ‘Juniper
Flats’ and dated November 7, 2018.’’.
SEC. 1460. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CALI-
FORNIA MILITARY LANDS WITH-
DRAWAL AND OVERFLIGHTS ACT OF
1994.
(a) FINDINGS.—Section 801(b)(2) of the Cali-
fornia Military Lands Withdrawal and Over-
flights Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–82 note;
Public Law 103–433) is amended by inserting
‘‘, special management areas, off-highway
vehicle recreation areas, scenic areas,’’ be-
fore ‘‘and wilderness areas’’.
(b) OVERFLIGHTS; SPECIAL AIRSPACE.—Sec-
tion 802 of the California Military Lands
Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–82) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.—
Nothing in this Act alters any authority of
the Secretary of Defense to conduct military
operations at installations and ranges within
the California Desert Conservation Area that
are authorized under any other provision of
law.’’.
SEC. 1461. DESERT TORTOISE CONSERVATION
CENTER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish, operate, and maintain a trans-State
desert tortoise conservation center (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’) on public
land along the California-Nevada border—
(1) to support desert tortoise research, dis-
ease monitoring, handling training, rehabili-
tation, and reintroduction;
(2) to provide temporary quarters for ani-
mals collected from authorized salvage from
renewable energy sites; and
(3) to ensure the full recovery and ongoing
survival of the species.
(b) CENTER.—In carrying out this section,
the Secretary shall—
(1) seek the participation of or contract
with qualified organizations with expertise
in desert tortoise disease research and expe-
rience with desert tortoise translocation
techniques, and scientific training of profes-
sional biologists for handling tortoises, to
staff and manage the Center;
(2) ensure that the Center engages in pub-
lic outreach and education on tortoise han-
dling; and
(3) consult with the State and the State of
Nevada to ensure that the Center is operated
consistent with State law.
(c) NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The Sec-
retary may accept and expend contributions
of non-Federal funds to establish, operate,
and maintain the Center.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
SEC. 2001. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF JAMES
K. POLK PRESIDENTIAL HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President James K. Polk Home in Columbia,
Tennessee, and adjacent property.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2002. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
THURGOOD MARSHALL SCHOOL.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means—
(1) P.S. 103, the public school located in
West Baltimore, Maryland, which Thurgood
Marshall attended as a youth; and
(2) any other resources in the neighborhood
surrounding P.S. 103 that relate to the early
life of Thurgood Marshall.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2003. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF PRESI-
DENT STREET STATION.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President Street Station, a railroad terminal
in Baltimore, Maryland, the history of which
is tied to the growth of the railroad industry
in the 19th century, the Civil War, the Un-
derground Railroad, and the immigrant in-
flux of the early 20th century.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2004. AMACHE SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
site known as ‘‘Amache’’, ‘‘Camp Amache’’,
and ‘‘Granada Relocation Center’’ in Gra-
nada, Colorado, which was 1 of the 10 reloca-
tion centers where Japanese Americans were
incarcerated during World War II.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives described in subparagraphs
(B) and (C).
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1235
February 12, 2019
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2005. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
GEORGE W. BUSH CHILDHOOD
HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
George W. Bush Childhood Home, located at
1412 West Ohio Avenue, Midland, Texas.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
SEC. 2101. SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY PARK
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFILIATED AREA.—The term ‘‘affiliated
area’’ means the Parker’s Crossroads Battle-
field established as an affiliated area of the
National Park System by subsection (c)(1).
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means Shiloh
National Military Park, a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(b) AREAS TO BE ADDED TO SHILOH NA-
TIONAL MILITARY PARK.—
(1) ADDITIONAL AREAS.—The boundary of
the Park is modified to include the areas
that are generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Shiloh National Military Park, Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 304/
80,011, and dated July 2014, and which are
comprised of the following:
(A) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
(B) Russell House Battlefield.
(C) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
(2) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire the land described in paragraph
(1) by donation, purchase from willing sellers
with donated or appropriated funds, or ex-
change.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Any land acquired
under this subsection shall be administered
as part of the Park.
(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF AFFILIATED AREA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Parker’s Crossroads Bat-
tlefield in the State of Tennessee is estab-
lished as an affiliated area of the National
Park System.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF AFFILIATED AREA.—The
affiliated area shall consist of the area gen-
erally depicted within the ‘‘Proposed Bound-
ary’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Parker’s Cross-
roads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary’’, num-
bered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The affiliated area
shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) any law generally applicable to units of
the National Park System.
(4) MANAGEMENT ENTITY.—The City of
Parkers Crossroads and the Tennessee His-
torical Commission shall jointly be the man-
agement entity for the affiliated area.
(5) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may provide technical assistance and
enter into cooperative agreements with the
management entity for the purpose of pro-
viding financial assistance for the mar-
keting, marking, interpretation, and preser-
vation of the affiliated area.
(6) LIMITED ROLE OF THE SECRETARY.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
to acquire property at the affiliated area or
to assume overall financial responsibility for
the operation, maintenance, or management
of the affiliated area.
(7) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the management entity, shall
develop a general management plan for the
affiliated area in accordance with section
100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(B) TRANSMITTAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate the general manage-
ment plan developed under subparagraph (A).
SEC. 2102. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘Histor-
ical Park’’ means the Ocmulgee Mounds Na-
tional Historical Park in the State of Geor-
gia, as redesignated by subsection(b)(1)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 363/
125996, and dated January 2016.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means the Ocmulgee River corridor between
the cities of Macon, Georgia, and
Hawkinsville, Georgia.
(b) OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Ocmulgee National
Monument, established pursuant to the Act
of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958, chapter 519),
shall be known and designated as the
‘‘Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical
Park’’.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the
‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument’’ shall be
deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Ocmulgee
Mounds National Historical Park’’.
(2) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the His-
torical Park is revised to include approxi-
mately 2,100 acres of land, as generally de-
picted on the map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land and interests in land within the
boundaries of the Historical Park by dona-
tion, purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(B) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
acquire by condemnation any land or inter-
est in land within the boundaries of the His-
torical Park.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer any land acquired under para-
graph (3) as part of the Historical Park in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations).
(c) OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RE-
SOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2103. KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BAT-
TLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park, Proposed Boundary Adjust-
ment’’, numbered 325/80,020, and dated Feb-
ruary 2010.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield
Park.
(b) KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BATTLE-
FIELD PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(1) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Park is modified to include the ap-
proximately 8 acres of land or interests in
land identified as ‘‘Wallis House and
Harriston Hill’’, as generally depicted on the
map.
(2) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for inspection in the appropriate
offices of the National Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire land or interests in land described in
paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from
willing sellers, or exchange.
(4) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
The Secretary shall administer land and in-
terests in land acquired under this section as
part of the Park in accordance with applica-
ble laws (including regulations).
SEC. 2104. FORT FREDERICA NATIONAL MONU-
MENT, GEORGIA.
(a) MAXIMUM ACREAGE.—The first section
of the Act of May 26, 1936 (16 U.S.C. 433g), is
amended by striking ‘‘two hundred and fifty
acres’’ and inserting ‘‘305 acres’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1236 February 12, 2019
(b) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the Fort
Frederica National Monument in the State
of Georgia is modified to include the land
generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Acquisition
Areas’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Fort Frederica
National Monument Proposed Boundary Ex-
pansion’’, numbered 369/132,469, and dated
April 2016.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the National Park Service.
(3) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The Secretary
may acquire the land and interests in land
described in paragraph (1) by donation or
purchase with donated or appropriated funds
from willing sellers only.
(4) NO USE OF CONDEMNATION OR EMINENT
DOMAIN.—The Secretary may not acquire by
condemnation or eminent domain any land
or interests in land under this section or for
the purposes of this section.
SEC. 2105. FORT SCOTT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
BOUNDARY.
Public Law 95–484 (92 Stat. 1610) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the first section—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, by purchase with appro-
priated funds, or by exchange’’ after ‘‘dona-
tion’’; and
(B) by striking the proviso; and
(2) in section 2—
(A) by striking ‘‘SEC. 2. When’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—When’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—The bound-
ary of the Fort Scott National Historic Site
established under subsection (a) is modified
as generally depicted on the map referred to
as ‘Fort Scott National Historic Site Pro-
posed Boundary Modification’, numbered 471/
80,057, and dated February 2016.’’.
SEC. 2106. FLORISSANT FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL
MONUMENT BOUNDARY.
The first section of Public Law 91–60 (83
Stat. 101) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘entitled ‘Proposed
Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument’,
numbered NM–FFB–7100, and dated March
1967, and more particularly described by
metes and bounds in an attachment to that
map,’’ and inserting ‘‘entitled ‘Florissant
Fossil Beds National Monument Proposed
Boundary Adjustment’, numbered 171/132,544,
and dated May 3, 2016,’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘six thousand acres’’ and in-
serting ‘‘6,300 acres’’.
SEC. 2107. VOYAGEURS NATIONAL PARK BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) BOUNDARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 102(a) of Public
Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160a–1(a)) is amended—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
drawing entitled’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘February 1969’’ and inserting ‘‘the
map entitled ‘Voyageurs National Park, Pro-
posed Land Transfer & Boundary Adjust-
ment’, numbered 172/80,056, and dated June
2009 (22 sheets)’’; and
(B) in the second and third sentences, by
striking ‘‘drawing’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘map’’.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section
102(b)(2)(A) of Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C.
160a–1(b)(2)(A)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)(C) and (D)’’
and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs (C) and (D) of
paragraph (1)’’; and
(B) in the second proviso, by striking
‘‘paragraph 1(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(1)(E)’’.
(b) LAND ACQUISITIONS.—Section 201 of
Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160b) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking the section designation and
heading and all that follows through ‘‘(a)
The Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 201. LAND ACQUISITIONS.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘When any tract of land is only partly with-
in such boundaries’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) CERTAIN PORTIONS OF TRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which
only a portion of a tract of land is within the
boundaries of the park’’;
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘Land so acquired’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(B) EXCHANGE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Any land acquired pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A)’’;
(C) in the fourth sentence, by striking
‘‘Any portion’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(ii) PORTIONS NOT EXCHANGED.—Any por-
tion’’;
(D) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘Any
Federal property’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(C) TRANSFERS OF FEDERAL PROPERTY.—
Any Federal property’’; and
(E) by striking the last sentence and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(D) ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.—Effec-
tive beginning on the date of enactment of
this subparagraph, there is transferred to the
National Park Service administrative juris-
diction over—
‘‘(i) any land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management within the boundaries of
the park, as depicted on the map described in
section 102(a); and
‘‘(ii) any additional public land identified
by the Bureau of Land Management as ap-
propriate for transfer within the boundaries
of the park.
‘‘(E) LAND OWNED BY STATE.—
‘‘(i) DONATIONS AND EXCHANGES.—Any land
located within or adjacent to the boundaries
of the park that is owned by the State of
Minnesota (or a political subdivision of the
State) may be acquired by the Secretary
only through donation or exchange.
‘‘(ii) REVISION.—On completion of an acqui-
sition from the State under clause (i), the
Secretary shall revise the boundaries of the
park to reflect the acquisition.’’; and
(3) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘(b) In ex-
ercising his’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) OFFERS BY INDIVIDUALS.—In exercising
the’’.
SEC. 2108. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) BOUNDARY CLARIFICATION.—Section 101
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘In
order to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(a) BOUNDARIES.—Subject to subsections
(b) and (c)(2), to’’;
(2) in the second sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘The map shall be on file’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY AND REVISIONS OF
MAPS.—
‘‘(1) AVAILABILITY.—The map, together
with the map described in subsection (b)(1)
and any revised boundary map published
under paragraph (2), if applicable, shall be—
‘‘(A) on file’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Interior, and it shall be
made’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘Interior;
and
‘‘(B) made’’;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) (as des-
ignated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(b) SCHOODIC PENINSULA ADDITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Park is confirmed to include approximately
1,441 acres of land and interests in land, as
depicted on the map entitled ‘Acadia Na-
tional Park, Hancock County, Maine,
Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision’,
numbered 123/129102, and dated July 10, 2015.
‘‘(2) RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF ACQUI-
SITIONS OF LAND.—Congress ratifies and ap-
proves—
‘‘(A) effective as of September 26, 2013, the
acquisition by the United States of the land
and interests in the land described in para-
graph (1); and
‘‘(B) effective as of the date on which the
alteration occurred, any alteration of the
land or interests in the land described in
paragraph (1) that is held or claimed by the
United States (including conversion of the
land to fee simple interest) that occurred
after the date described in subparagraph
(A).’’; and
(4) in subsection (c) (as designated by para-
graph (2)(A)), by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND LIMITED REVISIONS.—
Subject to section 102(k), notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, the Sec-
retary of the Interior (referred to in this
title as the ‘Secretary’), by publication in
the Federal Register of a revised boundary
map or other description, may make—
‘‘(A) such technical boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park (in-
cluding any property of the Park located
within the Schoodic Peninsula and Isle Au
Haut districts) to resolve issues resulting
from causes such as survey error or changed
road alignments; and
‘‘(B) such limited boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park to
take into account acquisitions or losses, by
exchange, donation, or purchase from willing
sellers using donated or appropriated funds,
of land adjacent to or within the Park, re-
spectively, in any case in which the total
acreage of the land to be so acquired or lost
is less than 10 acres, subject to the condition
that—
‘‘(i) any such boundary revision shall not
be a part of a more-comprehensive boundary
revision; and
‘‘(ii) all such boundary revisions, consid-
ered collectively with any technical bound-
ary revisions made pursuant to subparagraph
(A), do not increase the size of the Park by
more than a total of 100 acres, as compared
to the size of the Park on the date of enact-
ment of this paragraph.’’.
(b) LIMITATION ON ACQUISITIONS OF LAND
FOR ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—Section 102 of
Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of the In-
terior (hereinafter in this title referred to as
‘the Secretary’)’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘the the’’ and inserting
‘‘the’’;
(3) in subsection (k)—
(A) by redesignating the subsection as
paragraph (4) and indenting the paragraph
appropriately; and
(B) by moving the paragraph so as to ap-
pear at the end of subsection (b); and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) REQUIREMENTS.—Before revising the
boundaries of the Park pursuant to this sec-
tion or section 101(c)(2)(B), the Secretary
shall—
‘‘(1) certify that the proposed boundary re-
vision will contribute to, and is necessary
for, the proper preservation, protection, in-
terpretation, or management of the Park;
‘‘(2) consult with the governing body of
each county, city, town, or other jurisdiction
with primary taxing authority over the land
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1237
February 12, 2019
or interest in land to be acquired regarding
the impacts of the proposed boundary revi-
sion;
‘‘(3) obtain from each property owner the
land or interest in land of which is proposed
to be acquired for, or lost from, the Park
written consent for the proposed boundary
revision; and
‘‘(4) submit to the Acadia National Park
Advisory Commission established by section
103(a), the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate, and the Maine Congressional
Delegation a written notice of the proposed
boundary revision.
‘‘(l) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
use the authority provided by section 100506
of title 54, United States Code, to adjust the
permanent boundaries of the Park pursuant
to this title.’’.
(c) ACADIA NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COM-
MISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall rees-
tablish and appoint members to the Acadia
National Park Advisory Commission in ac-
cordance with section 103 of Public Law 99–
420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 103
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended by striking subsection (f).
(d) REPEAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELAT-
ING TO ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—The fol-
lowing are repealed:
(1) Section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1919
(40 Stat. 1178, chapter 45).
(2) The first section of the Act of January
19, 1929 (45 Stat. 1083, chapter 77).
(e) MODIFICATION OF USE RESTRICTION.—
The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 Stat. 383, chap-
ter 511), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘That the Secretary’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA
NATIONAL PARK.
‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘for school purposes’’ and
inserting ‘‘for public purposes, subject to the
conditions that use of the land shall not de-
grade or adversely impact the resources or
values of Acadia National Park and that the
land shall remain in public ownership for
recreational, educational, or similar public
purposes’’.
(f) CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADITIONAL
USES.—Title I of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C.
341 note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 109. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADI-
TIONAL USES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) LAND WITHIN THE PARK.—The term
‘land within the Park’ means land owned or
controlled by the United States—
‘‘(A) that is within the boundary of the
Park established by section 101; or
‘‘(B)(i) that is outside the boundary of the
Park; and
‘‘(ii) in which the Secretary has or acquires
a property interest or conservation easement
pursuant to this title.
‘‘(2) MARINE SPECIES; MARINE WORM; SHELL-
FISH.—The terms ‘marine species’, ‘marine
worm’, and ‘shellfish’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 6001 of title 12 of
the Maine Revised Statutes (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) STATE LAW.—The term ‘State law’
means the law (including regulations) of the
State of Maine, including the common law.
‘‘(4) TAKING.—The term ‘taking’ means the
removal or attempted removal of a marine
species, marine worm, or shellfish from the
natural habitat of the marine species, ma-
rine worm, or shellfish.
‘‘(b) CONTINUATION OF TRADITIONAL USES.—
The Secretary shall allow for the traditional
taking of marine species, marine worms, and
shellfish, on land within the Park between
the mean high watermark and the mean low
watermark in accordance with State law.’’.
(g) CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN LAND IN ACA-
DIA NATIONAL PARK TO THE TOWN OF BAR
HARBOR, MAINE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey to the Town of Bar Harbor all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the .29-acre parcel of land in Acadia
National Park identified as lot 110–055–000 on
the tax map of the Town of Bar Harbor for
section 110, dated April 1, 2015, to be used
for—
(A) a solid waste transfer facility; or
(B) other public purposes consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) REVERSION.—If the land conveyed under
paragraph (1) is used for a purpose other than
a purpose described in that paragraph, the
land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary,
revert to the United States.
SEC. 2109. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE IN-
TERIOR TO ACCEPT CERTAIN PROP-
ERTIES, MISSOURI.
(a) STE. GENEVIEVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.—Section 7134(a)(3) of the Energy and
Natural Resources Act of 2017 (as enacted
into law by section 121(a)(2) of division G of
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141)) is amended by striking
‘‘ ‘Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park
Proposed Boundary’, numbered 571/132,626,
and dated May 2016’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘Ste.
Genevieve National Historical Park Pro-
posed Boundary Addition’, numbered 571/
149,942, and dated December 2018’’.
(b) HARRY S TRUMAN NATIONAL HISTORIC
SITE.—Public Law 98–32 (54 U.S.C. 320101
note) is amended—
(1) in section 3, by striking the section des-
ignation and all that follows through ‘‘is au-
thorized’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘There are authorized’’;
(2) in section 2—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary is further authorized, in the
administration of the site, to’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) USE BY MARGARET TRUMAN DANIEL.—
In administering the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site, the Secretary may’’;
and
(B) by striking the section designation and
all that follows through ‘‘and shall be’’ in
the first sentence and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 3. DESIGNATION; USE BY MARGARET TRU-
MAN DANIEL.
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—Any property acquired
pursuant to section 2—
‘‘(1) is designated as the ‘Harry S Truman
National Historic Site’; and
‘‘(2) shall be’’; and
(3) in the first section—
(A) by redesignating subsection (e) as para-
graph (2), indenting the paragraph appro-
priately, and moving the paragraph so as to
appear at the end of subsection (c);
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) by striking the subsection designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized to’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) TRUMAN FARM HOME.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by
subparagraph (A))—
(I) by striking ‘‘Farm House’’ and inserting
‘‘Farm Home’’; and
(II) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized and
directed to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND PLANNING ASSIST-
ANCE.—The Secretary shall’’;
(C) in subsection (b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(b)(1) The Secretary is fur-
ther authorized to’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) NOLAND/HAUKENBERRY AND WALLACE
HOUSES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (1), by indenting subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) appropriately;
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) ADDITIONAL LAND IN INDEPENDENCE FOR
VISITOR CENTER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire, by donation from the city of Independ-
ence, Missouri, the land described in para-
graph (2) for—
‘‘(A) inclusion in the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site; and
‘‘(B) if the Secretary determines appro-
priate, use as a visitor center of the historic
site, which may include administrative serv-
ices.
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) consists of the ap-
proximately 1.08 acres of land—
‘‘(A) owned by the city of Independence,
Missouri;
‘‘(B) designated as Lots 6 through 19,
DELAYS Subdivision, a subdivision in Inde-
pendence, Jackson County, Missouri; and
‘‘(C) located in the area of the city bound
by Truman Road on the south, North Lynn
Street on the west, East White Oak Street
on the north, and the city transit center on
the east.
‘‘(3) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—On acquisi-
tion of the land under this subsection, the
Secretary shall modify the boundary of the
Harry S Truman National Historic Site to
reflect that acquisition.’’; and
(E) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary may also acquire, by any of the
above means, fixtures,’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(2) FIXTURES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.—
The Secretary may acquire, by any means
described in paragraph (1), any fixtures’’; and
(ii) in the first sentence—
(I) by striking ‘‘of the Interior (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘Secretary’)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘That (a) in order to’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION OF SEC-
RETARY.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Harry S Truman National Historic
Site Establishment Act’.
‘‘(b) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.—In this
Act, the term ‘Secretary’ means the Sec-
retary of the Interior.
‘‘SEC. 2. PURPOSE; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
‘‘(a) PURPOSE; ACQUISITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To’’.
SEC. 2110. HOME OF FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
(a) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire, by donation, purchase from a will-
ing seller using donated or appropriated
funds, or exchange, the approximately 89
acres of land identified as the ‘‘Morgan Prop-
erty’’ and generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt Na-
tional Historic Site, Proposed Park Addi-
tion’’, numbered 384/138,461, and dated May
2017.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be available
for public inspection in the appropriate of-
fices of the National Park Service.
(c) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT; ADMINISTRA-
TION.—On acquisition of the land referred to
in subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1) adjust the boundary of the Home of
Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site
to reflect the acquisition; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1238 February 12, 2019
(2) administer the acquired land as part of
the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National
Historic Site, in accordance with applicable
laws.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
SEC. 2201. DESIGNATION OF SAINT-GAUDENS NA-
TIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historic Site shall be known and des-
ignated as the ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National His-
torical Park’’.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 88–543.—
Public Law 88–543 (78 Stat.749) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘National Historic Site’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Na-
tional Historical Park’’;
(2) in section 2(a), by striking ‘‘historic
site’’ and inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National
Historical Park’’;
(3) in section 3, by—
(A) striking ‘‘national historical site’’ and
inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National Histor-
ical Park’’; and
(B) striking ‘‘part of the site’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘part of the park’’; and
(4) in section 4(b), by striking ‘‘traditional
to the site’’ and inserting ‘‘traditional to the
park’’.
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any
law, regulation, document, record, map, or
other paper of the United States to the
Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site shall
be considered to be a reference to the ‘‘Saint-
Gaudens National Historical Park’’.
SEC. 2202. REDESIGNATION OF ROBERT EMMET
PARK.
(a) REDESIGNATION.—The small triangular
property designated by the National Park
Service as reservation 302, shall be known as
‘‘Robert Emmet Park’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, document, record, map, paper, or
other record of the United States to the
property referred to in subsection (a) is
deemed to be a reference to ‘‘Robert Emmet
Park’’.
(c) SIGNAGE.—The Secretary may post
signs on or near Robert Emmet Park that in-
clude 1 or more of the following:
(1) Information on Robert Emmet, his con-
tribution to Irish Independence, and his re-
spect for the United States and the Amer-
ican Revolution.
(2) Information on the history of the statue
of Robert Emmet located in Robert Emmet
Park.
SEC. 2203. FORT SUMTER AND FORT MOULTRIE
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Boundary Map, Fort Sumter and
Fort Moultrie National Historical Park’’,
numbered 392/80,088, and dated August 2009.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park established by subsection
(b).
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of South Carolina.
(4) SULLIVAN’S ISLAND LIFE SAVING STATION
HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Sullivan’s Is-
land Life Saving Station Historic District’’
means the Charleston Lighthouse, the boat-
house, garage, bunker/sighting station, sig-
nal tower, and any associated land and im-
provements to the land that are located be-
tween Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Station
and the mean low water mark.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park in the State as a single unit
of the National Park System to preserve,
maintain, and interpret the nationally sig-
nificant historical values and cultural re-
sources associated with Fort Sumter Na-
tional Monument, Fort Moultrie National
Monument, and the Sullivan’s Island Life
Saving Station Historic District.
(c) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Park
shall be as generally depicted on the map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the National Park
Service, shall administer the Park in accord-
ance with this section and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) INTERPRETATION OF HISTORICAL
EVENTS.—The Secretary shall provide for the
interpretation of historical events and ac-
tivities that occurred in the vicinity of Fort
Sumter and Fort Moultrie, including—
(A) the Battle of Sullivan’s Island on June
28, 1776;
(B) the Siege of Charleston during 1780;
(C) the Civil War, including—
(i) the bombardment of Fort Sumter by
Confederate forces on April 12, 1861; and
(ii) any other events of the Civil War that
are associated with Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(D) the development of the coastal defense
system of the United States during the pe-
riod from the Revolutionary War to World
War II, including—
(i) the Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Sta-
tion;
(ii) the lighthouse associated with the Sul-
livan’s Island Life Saving Station; and
(iii) the coastal defense sites constructed
during the period of fortification construc-
tion from 1898 to 1942, known as the ‘‘Endi-
cott Period’’; and
(E) the lives of—
(i) the free and enslaved workers who built
and maintained Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(ii) the soldiers who defended the forts;
(iii) the prisoners held at the forts; and
(iv) captive Africans bound for slavery
who, after first landing in the United States,
were brought to quarantine houses in the vi-
cinity of Fort Moultrie in the 18th century,
if the Secretary determines that the quar-
antine houses and associated historical val-
ues are nationally significant.
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with public and private entities and
individuals to carry out this section.
(g) REPEAL OF EXISTING LAW.—Section 2 of
the Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘Joint Resolu-
tion to establish the Fort Sumter National
Monument in the State of South Carolina’’,
approved April 28, 1948 (16 U.S.C. 450ee–1), is
repealed.
SEC. 2204. RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK AND RECONSTRUC-
TION ERA NATIONAL HISTORIC NET-
WORK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘historical
park’’ means the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Historical Park.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the maps
entitled ‘‘Reconstruction Era National
Monument Old Beaufort Firehouse’’, num-
bered 550/135,755, and dated January 2017;
‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monument
Darrah Hall and Brick Baptist Church’’,
numbered 550/135,756, and dated January 2017;
and ‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monu-
ment Camp Saxton’’, numbered 550/135,757,
and dated January 2017, collectively.
(3) NETWORK.—The term ‘‘Network’’ means
the Reconstruction Era National Historic
Network established pursuant to this sec-
tion.
(b) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
(1) REDESIGNATION OF RECONSTRUCTION ERA
NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Reconstruction Era
National Monument is redesignated as the
Reconstruction Era National Historical
Park, as generally depicted on the Map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Any funds
available for the purposes of the Reconstruc-
tion Era National Monument shall be avail-
able for the purposes of the historical park.
(C) REFERENCES.—Any references in a law,
regulation, document, record, map, or other
paper of the United States to the Recon-
struction Era National Monument shall be
considered to be a reference to the historical
park.
(2) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(A) BEAUFORT NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
DISTRICT.—Subject to subparagraph (D), the
Secretary is authorized to acquire land or in-
terests in land within the Beaufort National
Historic Landmark District that has historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era. Upon
finalizing an agreement to acquire land, the
Secretary shall expand the boundary of the
historical park to encompass the property.
(B) ST. HELENA ISLAND.—Subject to sub-
paragraph (D), the Secretary is authorized to
acquire the following and shall expand the
boundary of the historical park to include
acquisitions under this authority:
(i) Land and interests in land adjacent to
the existing boundary on St. Helena Island,
South Carolina, as reflected on the Map.
(ii) Land or interests in land on St. Helena
Island, South Carolina, that has a historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era.
(C) CAMP SAXTON.—Subject to subpara-
graph (D), the Secretary is authorized to ac-
cept administrative jurisdiction of Federal
land or interests in Federal land adjacent to
the existing boundary at Camp Saxton, as re-
flected on the Map. Upon finalizing an agree-
ment to accept administrative jurisdiction
of Federal land or interests in Federal land,
the Secretary shall expand the boundary of
the historical park to encompass that Fed-
eral land or interests in Federal land.
(D) LAND ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Sec-
retary may only acquire land under this sec-
tion by donation, exchange, or purchase with
donated funds.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the historical park in accordance
with this section and with the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem.
(B) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—If the manage-
ment plan for the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Monument—
(i) has not been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall incorporate all provisions of this sec-
tion into the planning process and complete
a management plan for the historical park
within 3 years; and
(ii) has been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall update the plan incorporating the pro-
visions of this section.
(c) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORIC NETWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) establish, within the National Park
Service, a program to be known as the ‘‘Re-
construction Era National Historic Net-
work’’;
(B) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, solicit proposals from
sites interested in being a part of the Net-
work; and
(C) administer the Network through the
historical park.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1239
February 12, 2019
(2) DUTIES OF SECRETARY.—In carrying out
the Network, the Secretary shall—
(A) review studies and reports to com-
plement and not duplicate studies of the his-
torical importance of Reconstruction Era
that may be underway or completed, such as
the National Park Service Reconstruction
Handbook and the National Park Service
Theme Study on Reconstruction;
(B) produce and disseminate appropriate
educational and promotional materials re-
lating to the Reconstruction Era and the
sites in the Network, such as handbooks,
maps, interpretive guides, or electronic in-
formation;
(C) enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing to provide technical assistance;
(D)(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device for the Network; and
(ii) issue regulations for the use of the
symbol or device adopted under clause (i);
and
(E) conduct research relating to Recon-
struction and the Reconstruction Era.
(3) ELEMENTS.—The Network shall encom-
pass the following elements:
(A) All units and programs of the National
Park Service that are determined by the
Secretary to relate to the Reconstruction
Era.
(B) Other Federal, State, local, and pri-
vately owned properties that the Secretary
determines—
(i) relate to the Reconstruction Era; and
(ii) are included in, or determined by the
Secretary to be eligible for inclusion in, the
National Register of Historic Places.
(C) Other governmental and nongovern-
mental sites, facilities, and programs of an
educational, research, or interpretive nature
that are directly related to the Reconstruc-
tion Era.
(4) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND MEMO-
RANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.—To achieve the
purposes of this section and to ensure effec-
tive coordination of the Federal and non-
Federal elements of the Network and units
and programs of the National Park Service,
the Secretary may enter into cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing with, and provide technical assist-
ance to, the heads of other Federal agencies,
States, units of local government, regional
governmental bodies, and private entities.
SEC. 2205. GOLDEN SPIKE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Golden Spike National Historical Park des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the program to commemorate and interpret
the Transcontinental Railroad authorized
under subsection (c).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(4) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD.—The
term ‘‘Transcontinental Railroad’’ means
the approximately 1,912-mile continuous
railroad constructed between 1863 and 1869
extending from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San
Francisco, California.
(b) REDESIGNATION.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Golden Spike Na-
tional Historic Site designated April 2, 1957,
and placed under the administration of the
National Park Service under Public Law 89–
102 (54 U.S.C. 320101 note; 79 Stat. 426), shall
be known and designated as the ‘‘Golden
Spike National Historical Park’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the Golden
Spike National Historic Site shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the ‘‘Golden Spike
National Historical Park’’.
(c) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD COMMEMO-
RATION AND PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall establish within the Na-
tional Park Service a program to commemo-
rate and interpret the Transcontinental
Railroad.
(2) STUDY.—Before establishing the Pro-
gram, the Secretary shall conduct a study of
alternatives for commemorating and inter-
preting the Transcontinental Railroad that
includes—
(A) a historical assessment of the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(B) the identification of—
(i) existing National Park System land and
affiliated areas, land managed by other Fed-
eral agencies, and Federal programs that
may be related to preserving, commemo-
rating, and interpreting the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(ii) any properties relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad—
(I) that are designated as, or could meet
the criteria for designation as, National His-
toric Landmarks; or
(II) that are included, or eligible for inclu-
sion, on the National Register of Historic
Places;
(iii) any objects relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad that have educational,
research, or interpretative value; and
(iv) any governmental programs and non-
governmental programs of an educational,
research, or interpretive nature relating to
the Transcontinental Railroad; and
(C) recommendations for—
(i) incorporating the resources identified
under subparagraph (B) into the Program;
and
(ii) other appropriate ways to enhance his-
torical research, education, interpretation,
and public awareness of the Trans-
continental Railroad.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are made available
to carry out the study under paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
containing the findings and recommenda-
tions of the study.
(4) FREIGHT RAILROAD OPERATIONS.—The
Program shall not include any properties
that are—
(A) used in active freight railroad oper-
ations (or other ancillary purposes); or
(B) reasonably anticipated to be used for
freight railroad operations in the future.
(5) ELEMENTS OF THE PROGRAM.—In car-
rying out the Program under this subsection,
the Secretary—
(A) shall produce and disseminate appro-
priate education materials relating to the
history, construction, and legacy of the
Transcontinental Railroad, such as hand-
books, maps, interpretive guides, or elec-
tronic information;
(B) may enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing and provide technical assistance to
the heads of other Federal agencies, States,
units of local government, regional govern-
mental bodies, and private entities to fur-
ther the purposes of the Program and this
section; and
(C) may—
(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device to identify the Program;
and
(ii) issue guidance for the use of the sym-
bol or device created and adopted under
clause (i).
(d) PROGRAMMATIC AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall seek to enter into a pro-
grammatic agreement with the Utah State
Historic Preservation Officer to add to the
list of undertakings eligible for streamlined
review under section 306108 of title 54, United
States Code, certain uses that would have
limited physical impact to land in the Park.
(2) DEVELOPMENT AND CONSULTATION.—The
programmatic agreement entered into under
paragraph (1) shall be developed—
(A) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(B) in consultation with adjacent land-
owners, Indian Tribes, and other interested
parties.
(3) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) consider any application for uses cov-
ered by the programmatic agreement; and
(B) not later than 60 days after the receipt
of an application described in subparagraph
(A), approve the application, if the Secretary
determines the application is consistent
with—
(i) the programmatic agreement entered
into under paragraph (1); and
(ii) applicable laws (including regulations).
(e) INVASIVE SPECIES.—The Secretary shall
consult with, and seek to coordinate with,
adjacent landowners to address the treat-
ment of invasive species adjacent to, and
within the boundaries of, the Park.
SEC. 2206. WORLD WAR II PACIFIC SITES.
(a) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Memorial—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 580/140,514,
and dated November 2017.
(B) NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Memorial’’ means the Pearl Harbor
National Memorial established by paragraph
(2)(A)(i).
(2) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Pearl Harbor National Memorial in the State
of Hawai’i as a unit of the National Park
System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
National Memorial shall be the boundaries
generally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Memorial are to preserve, interpret,
and commemorate for the benefit of present
and future generations the history of World
War II in the Pacific from the events leading
to the December 7, 1941, attack on O’ahu, to
peace and reconciliation.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the National Memorial in accord-
ance with this subsection, section 121 of Pub-
lic Law 111–88 (123 Stat. 2930), and the laws
generally applicable to units of the National
Park System including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(4) REMOVAL OF PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL
MEMORIAL FROM THE WORLD WAR II VALOR IN
THE PACIFIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
World War II Valor in the Pacific National
Monument are revised to exclude from the
monument the land and interests in land
identified as the ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Me-
morial’’, as depicted on the Map.
(B) INCORPORATION INTO NATIONAL MEMO-
RIAL.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The land and interests in
land excluded from the monument under sub-
paragraph (A) are incorporated in and made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1240 February 12, 2019
part of the National Memorial in accordance
with this subsection.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—Any funds for the pur-
poses of the land and interests in land ex-
cluded from the monument under subpara-
graph (A) shall be made available for the
purposes of the National Memorial.
(iii) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
Hawai’i included in the World War II Valor
in the Pacific National Monument shall be
considered a reference to the ‘‘Pearl Harbor
National Memorial’’.
(b) TULE LAKE NATIONAL MONUMENT, CALI-
FORNIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of California, as
established by Presidential Proclamation
8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008),
are redesignated as the ‘‘Tule Lake National
Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Tule Lake National Monu-
ment in accordance with the provisions of
Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg.
75293; December 10, 2008) applicable to the
sites and resources in the State of California
that are subject to that proclamation.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
California included in the World War II
Valor in the Pacific National Monument
shall be considered to be a reference to ‘‘Tule
Lake National Monument’’.
(c) ALEUTIAN ISLANDS WORLD WAR II NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT, ALASKA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of Alaska, as es-
tablished by Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008), are re-
designated as the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World
War II National Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Aleutian Islands World War II
National Monument in accordance with the
provisions of Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008) appli-
cable to the sites and resources in the State
of Alaska that are subject to that proclama-
tion.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the sites and resources in
the State of Alaska included in the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment shall be considered to be a reference to
the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World War II National
Monument’’.
(d) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) HISTORIC SITE.—The term ‘‘Historic
Site’’ means the Honouliuli National His-
toric Site established by paragraph (2)(A)(i).
(B) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Honouliuli National Historic Site—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 680/139428,
and dated June 2017.
(2) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Honouliuli National Historic Site in the
State of Hawai’i as a unit of the National
Park System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Historic Site shall be the boundaries gen-
erally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the His-
toric Site are to preserve and interpret for
the benefit of present and future generations
the history associated with the internment
and detention of civilians of Japanese and
other ancestries during World War II in Ha-
wai’i, the impacts of war and martial law on
society in the Hawaiian Islands, and the co-
location and diverse experiences of Prisoners
of War at the Honouliuli Internment Camp
site.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Historic Site in accordance
with this subsection and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(B) PARTNERSHIPS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into agreements with, or acquire easements
from, the owners of property adjacent to the
Historic Site to provide public access to the
Historic Site.
(ii) INTERPRETATION.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with gov-
ernmental and nongovernmental organiza-
tions to provide for interpretation at the
Historic Site.
(C) SHARED RESOURCES.—To the maximum
extent practicable, the Secretary may use
the resources of the Pearl Harbor National
Memorial to administer the Historic Site.
(4) ABOLISHMENT OF HONOULIULI NATIONAL
MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In light of the establish-
ment of the Honouliuli National Historic
Site, the Honouliuli National Monument is
abolished and the lands and interests therein
are incorporated within and made part of
Honouliuli National Historic Site. Any funds
available for purposes of Honouliuli National
Monument shall be available for purposes of
the Historic Site.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any references in law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map or other paper of the
United States to Honouliuli National Monu-
ment shall be considered a reference to
Honouliuli National Historic Site.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
SEC. 2301. MEDGAR AND MYRLIE EVERS HOME
NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COLLEGE.—The term ‘‘College’’ means
Tougaloo College, a private educational in-
stitution located in Tougaloo, Mississippi.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Historic
District’’ means the Medgar Evers Historic
District, as included on the National Reg-
ister of Historic Places, and as generally de-
picted on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home Na-
tional Monument’’, numbered 515/142561, and
dated September 2018.
(4) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument established by sub-
section (b).
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established the Medgar and Myrlie
Evers Home National Monument in the State
of Mississippi as a unit of the National Park
System to preserve, protect, and interpret
for the benefit of present and future genera-
tions resources associated with the pivotal
roles of Medgar and Myrlie Evers in the
American Civil Rights Movement.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by—
(1) donation;
(2) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(3) exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for this purpose,
the Secretary shall prepare a general man-
agement plan for the Monument in accord-
ance with section 100502 of title 54, United
States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION.—On completion of the gen-
eral management plan under subparagraph
(A), the Secretary shall submit it to the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate.
(g) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) MONUMENT.—The Secretary—
(A) shall seek to enter into an agreement
with the College to provide interpretive and
educational services relating to the Monu-
ment; and
(B) may enter into agreements with the
College and other entities for the purposes of
carrying out this section.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The Secretary may
enter into agreements with the owner of a
nationally significant property within the
Historic District, to identify, mark, inter-
pret, and provide technical assistance with
respect to the preservation and interpreta-
tion of the property.
SEC. 2302. MILL SPRINGS BATTLEFIELD NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument, Nancy, Kentucky’’, numbered
297/145513, and dated June 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established as a unit of the National
Park System, the Mill Springs Battlefield
National Monument in the State of Ken-
tucky, to preserve, protect, and interpret for
the benefit of present and future genera-
tions—
(A) the nationally significant historic re-
sources of the Mill Springs Battlefield; and
(B) the role of the Mill Springs Battlefield
in the Civil War.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1241
February 12, 2019
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the Secretary makes a de-
termination under paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall publish in the Federal Register
notice of the establishment of the Monu-
ment.
(4) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Monu-
ment shall be as generally depicted on the
Map.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(6) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire land or an interest in land
located within the boundary of the Monu-
ment by—
(A) donation;
(B) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(C) exchange.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to prepare a general management
plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall
prepare the general management plan in ac-
cordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate the gen-
eral management plan.
(d) PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the land use rights
of private property owners within or adja-
cent to the Monument.
(e) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
SEC. 2303. CAMP NELSON HERITAGE NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument Nicholasville, Kentucky’’, num-
bered 532/144,148, and dated April 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established, as a unit of the National
Park System, the Camp Nelson Heritage Na-
tional Monument in the State of Kentucky,
to preserve, protect, and interpret for the
benefit of present and future generations,
the nationally significant historic resources
of Camp Nelson and the role of Camp Nelson
in the American Civil War, Reconstruction,
and African American history and civil
rights.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The Monument shall not
be established until after the Secretary—
(A) has entered into a written agreement
with the owner of any private or non-Federal
land within the boundary of the Monument,
as depicted on the Map, providing that the
property shall be donated to the United
States for inclusion in the Monument, to be
managed consistently with the purposes of
the Monument; and
(B) has determined that sufficient land or
interests in land have been acquired within
the boundary of the Monument to constitute
a manageable unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) Presidential Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845 (October 31, 2018)); and
(C) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for the prepara-
tion of a general management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall prepare a
general management plan for the Monument
in accordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives the general
management plan.
(g) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(h) CONFLICTS.—If there is conflict between
this section and Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845; October 31, 2018), this section
shall control.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
SEC. 2401. DENALI NATIONAL PARK AND PRE-
SERVE NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.
(a) PERMIT.—Section 3(b)(1) of the Denali
National Park Improvement Act (Public Law
113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is amended by striking
‘‘within, along, or near the approximately 7-
mile segment of the George Parks Highway
that runs through the Park’’.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Section 3(c)(1)
of the Denali National Park Improvement
Act (Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (B).
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—Section 3 of the
Denali National Park Improvement Act
(Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 515) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) APPLICABLE LAW.—A high pressure gas
transmission pipeline (including appur-
tenances) in a nonwilderness area within the
boundary of the Park, shall not be subject to
title XI of the Alaska National Interest
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3161 et
seq.).’’.
SEC. 2402. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HISTORIC PRESERVA-
TION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZED.
Section 507(d)(2) of the Omnibus Parks and
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (54
U.S.C. 302101 note) is amended by striking
the period at the end and inserting ‘‘and
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2025.’’.
SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(b) of the
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–358) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(36) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
‘‘(37) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (2 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.’’.
(b) EFFECT.—Section 7003 shall have no
force or effect.
SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZING COOPERATIVE MANAGE-
MENT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
The Secretary may enter into a coopera-
tive management agreement with the Dis-
trict of Columbia in accordance with section
101703 of title 54, United States Code.
SEC. 2404. FEES FOR MEDICAL SERVICES.
(a) FEES AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary may
establish and collect fees for medical serv-
ices provided to persons in units of the Na-
tional Park System or for medical services
provided by National Park Service personnel
outside units of the National Park System.
(b) NATIONAL PARK MEDICAL SERVICES
FUND.—There is established in the Treasury
a fund, to be known as the ‘‘National Park
Medical Services Fund’’ (referred to in this
section as the ‘‘Fund’’). The Fund shall con-
sist of—
(1) donations to the Fund; and
(2) fees collected under subsection (a).
(c) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—All
amounts deposited into the Fund shall be
available to the Secretary, to the extent pro-
vided in advance by Acts of appropriation,
for the following in units of the National
Park System:
(1) Services listed in subsection (a).
(2) Preparing needs assessments or other
programmatic analyses for medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
(3) Developing management plans for med-
ical facilities, equipment, vehicles, and other
needs and costs of services listed in sub-
section (a).
(4) Training related to providing services
listed in subsection (a).
(5) Obtaining or improving medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1242 February 12, 2019
SEC. 2405. AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS
AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER FEDERAL
LANDS WITHIN GATEWAY NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA.
Section 3 of Public Law 92–592 (16 U.S.C.
460cc–2) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(j) AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the In-
terior may grant, to any State or local gov-
ernment, an easement or right-of-way over
Federal lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area for construction, operation,
and maintenance of projects for control and
prevention of flooding and shoreline erosion.
‘‘(2) CHARGES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
COSTS.—The Secretary may grant such an
easement or right-of-way without charge for
the value of the right so conveyed, except for
reimbursement of costs incurred by the
United States for processing the application
therefore and managing such right. Amounts
received as such reimbursement shall be
credited to the relevant appropriation ac-
count.’’.
SEC. 2406. ADAMS MEMORIAL COMMISSION.
(a) COMMISSION.—There is established a
commission to be known as the ‘‘Adams Me-
morial Commission’’ (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘Commission’’) for the purpose of
establishing a permanent memorial to honor
John Adams and his legacy as authorized by
Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411), located in
the city of Washington, District of Columbia,
including sites authorized by Public Law 107–
315 (116 Stat. 2763).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of—
(1) 4 persons appointed by the President,
not more than 2 of whom may be members of
the same political party;
(2) 4 Members of the Senate appointed by
the President pro tempore of the Senate in
consultation with the Majority Leader and
Minority Leader of the Senate, of which not
more than 2 appointees may be members of
the same political party; and
(3) 4 Members of the House of Representa-
tives appointed by the Speaker of the House
of Representatives in consultation with the
Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the
House of Representatives, of which not more
than 2 appointees may be members of the
same political party.
(c) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The members of
the Commission shall select a Chair and Vice
Chair of the Commission. The Chair and Vice
Chair shall not be members of the same po-
litical party.
(d) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy in the Com-
mission shall not affect its powers if a
quorum is present, but shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment.
(e) MEETINGS.—
(1) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 45
days after the date on which a majority of
the members of the Commission have been
appointed, the Commission shall hold its
first meeting.
(2) SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS.—The Commis-
sion shall meet at the call of the Chair.
(f) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of
the Commission shall constitute a quorum
but a lesser number of members may hold
hearings.
(g) NO COMPENSATION.—A member of the
Commission shall serve without compensa-
tion, but may be reimbursed for expenses in-
curred in carrying out the duties of the Com-
mission.
(h) DUTIES.—The Commission shall con-
sider and formulate plans for a permanent
memorial to honor John Adams and his leg-
acy, including the nature, location, design,
and construction of the memorial.
(i) POWERS.—The Commission may—
(1) make such expenditures for services and
materials for the purpose of carrying out
this section as the Commission considers ad-
visable from funds appropriated or received
as gifts for that purpose;
(2) accept gifts, including funds from the
Adams Memorial Foundation, to be used in
carrying out this section or to be used in
connection with the construction or other
expenses of the memorial; and
(3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for
personal services and otherwise, and do such
other things as are necessary to carry out
this section.
(j) REPORTS.—The Commission shall—
(1) report the plans required by subsection
(h), together with recommendations, to the
President and the Congress at the earliest
practicable date; and
(2) in the interim, make annual reports on
its progress to the President and the Con-
gress.
(k) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.—The
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
(l) TERMINATION.—The Commission shall
terminate on December 2, 2025.
(m) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 107–62.—
(1) REFERENCES TO COMMISSION.—Public
Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411) is amended by
striking ‘‘Adams Memorial Foundation’’
each place it occurs and inserting ‘‘Adams
Memorial Commission’’.
(2) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION.—Section
1(c) of Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411; 124
Stat. 1192; 127 Stat. 3880) is amended by
striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 2407. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO REF-
ERENCES TO THE AFRICAN AMER-
ICAN CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK.
(a) CHAPTER AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 3084 of
title 54, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Network’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘African
American Civil Rights Network’’ (using iden-
tical font as used in the text being replaced).
(b) AMENDMENTS TO LIST OF ITEMS.—The
list of items of title 54, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights
Network’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘African American Civil Rights Network’’
(using identical font as used in the text
being replaced).
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Net-
work’’ shall be considered to be a reference
to the ‘‘African American Civil Rights Net-
work’’.
SEC. 2408. TRANSFER OF THE JAMES J. HOWARD
MARINE SCIENCES LABORATORY.
Section 7 of Public Law 100–515 (16 U.S.C.
1244 note) is amended by striking subsection
(b) and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) TRANSFER FROM THE STATE TO THE NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINIS-
TRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, or the provisions of
the August 13, 1991, Ground Lease Agreement
(‘Lease’) between the Department of the In-
terior and the State of New Jersey (‘State’),
upon notice to the National Park Service,
the State may transfer without consider-
ation, and the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration may accept, all State
improvements within the land assignment
and right of way, including the James J.
Howard Marine Sciences Laboratory (‘Lab-
oratory’), two parking lots, and the seawater
supply and backflow pipes as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Gateway Na-
tional Recreation Area, James J. Howard
Marine Science Laboratory Land Assign-
ment’, numbered 646/142,581A, and dated
April 2018 (‘Map’) and any related State per-
sonal property.
‘‘(2) LEASE AMENDMENT.—Upon the transfer
authorized in paragraph (1), the Lease shall
be amended to exclude any obligations of the
State and the Department of the Interior re-
lated to the Laboratory and associated prop-
erty and improvements transferred to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration. However, all obligations of the State
to rehabilitate Building 74 and modify land-
scaping on the surrounding property as de-
picted on the Map, under the Lease and pur-
suant to subsection (a), shall remain in full
force and effect.
‘‘(3) USE BY THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND AT-
MOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the trans-
fer authorized in paragraph (1), the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration is authorized to use
the land generally depicted on the Map as a
land assignment and right of way and associ-
ated land and appurtenances for continued
use of the Laboratory, including providing
maintenance and repair, and access to the
Laboratory, the parking lots and the sea-
water supply and back flow pipes, without
consideration, except for reimbursement to
the National Park Service of agreed upon
reasonable actual costs of subsequently pro-
vided goods and services.
‘‘(4) AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE AND THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the
transfer authorized in paragraph (1), the Di-
rector of the National Park Service and the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration shall enter into
an agreement addressing responsibilities per-
taining to the use of the land assignment
within the Sandy Hook Unit of the Gateway
National Recreation Area as authorized in
paragraph (3). The agreement shall prohibit
any new construction on this land, perma-
nent or nonpermanent, or significant alter-
ation to the exterior of the Laboratory,
without National Park Service approval.
‘‘(5) RESTORATION.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding any provision of the
Lease to the contrary, if the State does not
transfer the improvements as authorized in
paragraph (1), and these improvements are
not used as or in support of a marine science
laboratory, the State shall demolish and re-
move the improvements and restore the land
in accordance with the standards set forth
by the National Park Service, free of unac-
ceptable encumbrances and in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations re-
garding known contaminants.
‘‘(B) If the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration accepts the improve-
ments as authorized in paragraph (1) and
these improvements are not used as or in
support of a marine science laboratory, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration shall be responsible for demolishing
and removing these improvements and re-
storing the land, in accordance with the
standards set forth by the National Park
Service, free of unacceptable encumbrances
and in compliance with all applicable laws
and regulations regarding known contami-
nants.’’.
SEC. 2409. BOWS IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 104908. Bows in parks
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF NOT READY FOR IMME-
DIATE USE.—The term ‘not ready for imme-
diate use’ means—
‘‘(1) a bow or crossbow, the arrows of which
are secured or stowed in a quiver or other
arrow transport case; and
‘‘(2) with respect to a crossbow, uncocked.
‘‘(b) VEHICULAR TRANSPORTATION AUTHOR-
IZED.—The Director shall not promulgate or
enforce any regulation that prohibits an in-
dividual from transporting bows and cross-
bows that are not ready for immediate use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1243
February 12, 2019
across any System unit in the vehicle of the
individual if—
‘‘(1) the individual is not otherwise prohib-
ited by law from possessing the bows and
crossbows;
‘‘(2) the bows or crossbows that are not
ready for immediate use remain inside the
vehicle of the individual throughout the pe-
riod during which the bows or crossbows are
transported across System land; and
‘‘(3) the possession of the bows and cross-
bows is in compliance with the law of the
State in which the System unit is located.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 104907 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘104908. Bows in parks.’’.
SEC. 2410. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code (as amended by section
2409(a)), is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 104909. Wildlife management in parks
‘‘(a) USE OF QUALIFIED VOLUNTEERS.—If the
Secretary determines it is necessary to re-
duce the size of a wildlife population on Sys-
tem land in accordance with applicable law
(including regulations), the Secretary may
use qualified volunteers to assist in carrying
out wildlife management on System land.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED VOLUN-
TEERS.—Qualified volunteers providing as-
sistance under subsection (a) shall be subject
to—
‘‘(1) any training requirements or quali-
fications established by the Secretary; and
‘‘(2) any other terms and conditions that
the Secretary may require.
‘‘(c) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may au-
thorize the donation and distribution of
meat from wildlife management activities
carried out under this section, including the
donation and distribution to Indian Tribes,
qualified volunteers, food banks, and other
organizations that work to address hunger,
in accordance with applicable health guide-
lines and such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may require.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54 (as
amended by section 2409(b)), United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 104908 the following:
‘‘104909. Wildlife management in parks.’’.
SEC. 2411. POTTAWATTAMIE COUNTY REVER-
SIONARY INTEREST.
Section 2 of Public Law 101–191 (103 Stat.
1697) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) CONVEYANCE OF REVERSIONARY INTER-
EST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that it is no longer in the public inter-
est to operate and maintain the center, sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may
enter into 1 or more agreements—
‘‘(A) to convey the reversionary interest
held by the United States and described in
the quitclaim deed dated April 13, 1998, in-
strument number 19170, and as recorded in
book 98, page 55015, in Pottawattamie Coun-
ty, Iowa (referred to in this subsection as the
‘deed’); and
‘‘(B) to extinguish the requirement in the
deed that alterations to structures on the
property may not be made without the au-
thorization of the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CONSIDERATION.—A reversionary inter-
est may be conveyed under paragraph
(1)(A)—
‘‘(A) without consideration, if the land sub-
ject to the reversionary interest is required
to be used in perpetuity for public rec-
reational, educational, or similar purposes;
or
‘‘(B) for consideration in an amount equal
to the fair market value of the reversionary
interest, as determined based on an appraisal
that is conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
‘‘(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
‘‘(3) EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall execute appropriate instruments
to carry out an agreement entered into
under paragraph (1).
‘‘(4) EFFECT ON PRIOR AGREEMENT.—Effec-
tive on the date on which the Secretary has
executed instruments under paragraph (3)
and all Federal interests in the land and
properties acquired under this Act have been
conveyed, the agreement between the Na-
tional Park Service and the State Historical
Society of Iowa, dated July 21, 1995, and en-
tered into under subsection (d), shall have no
force or effect.’’.
SEC. 2412. DESIGNATION OF DEAN STONE
BRIDGE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The bridge located in
Blount County, Tennessee, on the Foothills
Parkway (commonly known as ‘‘Bridge 2’’)
shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Dean
Stone Bridge’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the bridge re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Dean Stone Bridge’’.
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
SEC. 2501. NORTH COUNTRY SCENIC TRAIL
ROUTE ADJUSTMENT.
Section 5(a)(8) of the National Trails Sys-
tem Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(8)) is amended in
the first sentence—
(1) by striking ‘‘thirty two hundred miles,
extending from eastern New York State’’ and
inserting ‘‘4,600 miles, extending from the
Appalachian Trail in Vermont’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Proposed North Country
Trail’’ and all that follows through ‘‘June
1975.’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘North Country Na-
tional Scenic Trail, Authorized Route’, dated
February 2014, and numbered 649/116870.’’.
SEC. 2502. EXTENSION OF LEWIS AND CLARK NA-
TIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.
(a) EXTENSION.—Section 5(a)(6) of the Na-
tional Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(6))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘three thousand seven hun-
dred’’ and inserting ‘‘4,900’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Wood River, Illinois,’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Ohio River in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania,’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘maps identified as, ‘Vicin-
ity Map, Lewis and Clark Trail’ study report
dated April 1977.’’ and inserting ‘‘the map en-
titled ‘Lewis and Clark National Historic
Trail Authorized Trail Including Proposed
Eastern Legacy Extension’, dated April 2018,
and numbered 648/143721.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date that is 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 2503. AMERICAN DISCOVERY TRAIL SIGN-
AGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to Federal
land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary;
or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2) TRAIL.—The term ‘‘Trail’’ means the
trail known as the ‘‘American Discovery
Trail’’, which consists of approximately 6,800
miles of trails extending from Cape Henlopen
State Park in Delaware to Point Reyes Na-
tional Seashore in California, as generally
described in volume 2 of the National Park
Service feasibility study dated June 1995.
(b) SIGNAGE AUTHORIZED.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date on which signage ac-
ceptable to the Secretary concerned is do-
nated to the United States for placement on
Federal land at points along the Trail, the
Secretary concerned shall place the signage
on the Federal land.
(c) NO FEDERAL FUNDS.—No Federal funds
may be used to acquire signage authorized
for placement under subsection (b).
SEC. 2504. PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL
STUDY.
Section 5(c) of the National Trails System
Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(46) PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.—The
Pike National Historic Trail, a series of
routes extending approximately 3,664 miles,
which follows the route taken by Lt. Zebulon
Montgomery Pike during the 1806–1807 Pike
expedition that began in Fort Bellefontaine,
Missouri, extended through portions of the
States of Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, New
Mexico, and Texas, and ended in
Natchitoches, Louisiana.’’.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 3001. REAUTHORIZATION OF LAND AND
WATER CONSERVATION FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘During
the period ending September 30, 2018, there’’
and inserting ‘‘There’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking
‘‘through September 30, 2018’’.
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Section 200304
of title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the second sentence;
(2) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the total
amount made available to the Fund through
appropriations or deposited in the Fund
under section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C.
1331 note; Public Law 109–432)—
‘‘(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes; and
‘‘(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States.’’.
(c) PARITY FOR TERRITORIES AND THE DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.—Section 200305(b) of title
54, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (5).
(d) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available for expenditure in any fiscal year
under section 200303, there shall be made
available for recreational public access
projects identified on the priority list devel-
oped under paragraph (2) not less than the
greater of—
‘‘(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those
amounts; or
‘‘(B) $15,000,000.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY LIST.—The Secretary and the
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation
with the head of each affected Federal agen-
cy, shall annually develop a priority list for
projects that, through acquisition of land (or
an interest in land), secure recreational pub-
lic access to Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of the applicable Secretary for hunting,
fishing, recreational shooting, or other out-
door recreational purposes.’’.
(e) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code (as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1244 February 12, 2019
amended by subsection (d)), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—In de-
termining whether to acquire land (or an in-
terest in land) under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
take into account—
‘‘(1) the significance of the acquisition;
‘‘(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
‘‘(3) management efficiencies;
‘‘(4) management cost savings;
‘‘(5) geographic distribution;
‘‘(6) threats to the integrity of the land;
and
‘‘(7) the recreational value of the land.’’.
SEC. 3002. CONSERVATION INCENTIVES LAND-
OWNER EDUCATION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish a conservation in-
centives landowner education program (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘program’’).
(b) PURPOSE OF PROGRAM.—The program
shall provide information on Federal con-
servation programs available to landowners
interested in undertaking conservation ac-
tions on the land of the landowners, includ-
ing options under each conservation program
available to achieve the conservation goals
of the program, such as—
(1) fee title land acquisition;
(2) donation; and
(3) perpetual and term conservation ease-
ments or agreements.
(c) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the information provided under the
program is made available to—
(1) interested landowners; and
(2) the public.
(d) NOTIFICATION.—In any case in which the
Secretary contacts a landowner directly
about participation in a Federal conserva-
tion program, the Secretary shall, in writ-
ing—
(1) notify the landowner of the program;
and
(2) make available information on the con-
servation program options that may be
available to the landowner.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
SEC. 4001. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF
NATIONAL POLICY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress declares that it
is the policy of the United States that Fed-
eral departments and agencies, in accord-
ance with the missions of the departments
and agencies, Executive Orders 12962 and
13443 (60 Fed. Reg. 30769 (June 7, 1995); 72 Fed.
Reg. 46537 (August 16, 2007)), and applicable
law, shall—
(1) facilitate the expansion and enhance-
ment of hunting, fishing, and recreational
shooting opportunities on Federal land, in
consultation with the Wildlife and Hunting
Heritage Conservation Council, the Sport
Fishing and Boating Partnership Council,
State and Tribal fish and wildlife agencies,
and the public;
(2) conserve and enhance aquatic systems
and the management of game species and the
habitat of those species on Federal land, in-
cluding through hunting and fishing, in a
manner that respects—
(A) State management authority over
wildlife resources; and
(B) private property rights; and
(3) consider hunting, fishing, and rec-
reational shooting opportunities as part of
all Federal plans for land, resource, and trav-
el management.
(b) EXCLUSION.—In this title, the term
‘‘fishing’’ does not include commercial fish-
ing in which fish are harvested, either in
whole or in part, that are intended to enter
commerce through sale.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
SEC. 4101. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means—
(A) any land in the National Forest Sys-
tem (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest
and Rangeland Renewable Resources Plan-
ning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a))) that is ad-
ministered by the Secretary of Agriculture,
acting through the Chief of the Forest Serv-
ice; and
(B) public lands (as defined in section 103 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)), the surface of
which is administered by the Secretary, act-
ing through the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land described in paragraph (1)(A);
and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to land de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 4102. FEDERAL LAND OPEN TO HUNTING,
FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
Federal land shall be open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting, in accordance
with applicable law, unless the Secretary
concerned closes an area in accordance with
section 4103.
(b) EFFECT OF PART.—Nothing in this sub-
title opens to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting any land that is not open
to those activities as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 4103. CLOSURE OF FEDERAL LAND TO HUNT-
ING, FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2)
and in accordance with section 302(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)), the Secretary con-
cerned may designate any area on Federal
land in which, and establish any period dur-
ing which, for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
laws, no hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting shall be permitted.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In making a designation
under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned
shall designate the smallest area for the
least amount of time that is required for
public safety, administration, or compliance
with applicable laws.
(b) CLOSURE PROCEDURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except in an emergency,
before permanently or temporarily closing
any Federal land to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting, the Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) consult with State fish and wildlife
agencies; and
(B) provide public notice and opportunity
for comment under paragraph (2).
(2) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Public notice and com-
ment shall include—
(i) a notice of intent—
(I) published in advance of the public com-
ment period for the closure—
(aa) in the Federal Register;
(bb) on the website of the applicable Fed-
eral agency;
(cc) on the website of the Federal land
unit, if available; and
(dd) in at least 1 local newspaper;
(II) made available in advance of the public
comment period to local offices, chapters,
and affiliate organizations in the vicinity of
the closure that are signatories to the
memorandum of understanding entitled
‘‘Federal Lands Hunting, Fishing, and Shoot-
ing Sports Roundtable Memorandum of Un-
derstanding’’; and
(III) that describes—
(aa) the proposed closure; and
(bb) the justification for the proposed clo-
sure, including an explanation of the reasons
and necessity for the decision to close the
area to hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting; and
(ii) an opportunity for public comment for
a period of—
(I) not less than 60 days for a permanent
closure; or
(II) not less than 30 days for a temporary
closure.
(B) FINAL DECISION.—In a final decision to
permanently or temporarily close an area to
hunting, fishing, or recreation shooting, the
Secretary concerned shall—
(i) respond in a reasoned manner to the
comments received;
(ii) explain how the Secretary concerned
resolved any significant issues raised by the
comments; and
(iii) show how the resolution led to the clo-
sure.
(c) TEMPORARY CLOSURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A temporary closure
under this section may not exceed a period of
180 days.
(2) RENEWAL.—Except in an emergency, a
temporary closure for the same area of land
closed to the same activities—
(A) may not be renewed more than 3 times
after the first temporary closure; and
(B) must be subject to a separate notice
and comment procedure in accordance with
subsection (b)(2).
(3) EFFECT OF TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—Any
Federal land that is temporarily closed to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
under this section shall not become perma-
nently closed to that activity without a sep-
arate public notice and opportunity to com-
ment in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
(d) REPORTING.—On an annual basis, the
Secretaries concerned shall—
(1) publish on a public website a list of all
areas of Federal land temporarily or perma-
nently subject to a closure under this sec-
tion; and
(2) submit to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources and the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources and the Committee on Agriculture of
the House of Representatives a report that
identifies—
(A) a list of each area of Federal land tem-
porarily or permanently subject to a closure;
(B) the acreage of each closure; and
(C) a survey of—
(i) the aggregate areas and acreage closed
under this section in each State; and
(ii) the percentage of Federal land in each
State closed under this section with respect
to hunting, fishing, and recreational shoot-
ing.
(e) APPLICATION.—This section shall not
apply if the closure is—
(1) less than 14 days in duration; and
(2) covered by a special use permit.
SEC. 4104. SHOOTING RANGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the Secretary concerned may,
in accordance with this section and other ap-
plicable law, lease or permit the use of Fed-
eral land for a shooting range.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary concerned
shall not lease or permit the use of Federal
land for a shooting range within—
(1) a component of the National Landscape
Conservation System;
(2) a component of the National Wilderness
Preservation System;
(3) any area that is—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1245
February 12, 2019
(A) designated as a wilderness study area;
(B) administratively classified as—
(i) wilderness-eligible; or
(ii) wilderness-suitable; or
(C) a primitive or semiprimitive area;
(4) a national monument, national volcanic
monument, or national scenic area; or
(5) a component of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System (including areas des-
ignated for study for potential addition to
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Sys-
tem).
SEC. 4105. IDENTIFYING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
RECREATION, HUNTING, AND FISH-
ING ON FEDERAL LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service; and
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land administered by the Chief of
the Forest Service.
(2) STATE OR REGIONAL OFFICE.—The term
‘‘State or regional office’’ means—
(A) a State office of the Bureau of Land
Management; or
(B) a regional office of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service; or
(iii) the Forest Service.
(3) TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
‘‘travel management plan’’ means a plan for
the management of travel—
(A) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the National Park Service, on park
roads and designated routes under section
4.10 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations
(or successor regulations);
(B) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, on the land under a comprehensive
conservation plan prepared under section
4(e) of the National Wildlife Refuge System
Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C.
668dd(e));
(C) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Forest Service, on National For-
est System land under part 212 of title 36,
Code of Federal Regulations (or successor
regulations); and
(D) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Bureau of Land Management,
under a resource management plan devel-
oped under the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.).
(b) PRIORITY LISTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and bien-
nially thereafter during the 10-year period
beginning on the date on which the first pri-
ority list is completed, the Secretary shall
prepare a priority list, to be made publicly
available on the website of the applicable
Federal agency referred to in subsection
(a)(1), which shall identify the location and
acreage of land within the jurisdiction of
each State or regional office on which the
public is allowed, under Federal or State
law, to hunt, fish, or use the land for other
recreational purposes but—
(A) to which there is no public access or
egress; or
(B) to which public access or egress to the
legal boundaries of the land is significantly
restricted (as determined by the Secretary).
(2) MINIMUM SIZE.—Any land identified
under paragraph (1) shall consist of contig-
uous acreage of at least 640 acres.
(3) CONSIDERATIONS.—In preparing the pri-
ority list required under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall consider, with respect to the
land—
(A) whether access is absent or merely re-
stricted, including the extent of the restric-
tion;
(B) the likelihood of resolving the absence
of or restriction to public access;
(C) the potential for recreational use;
(D) any information received from the pub-
lic or other stakeholders during the nomina-
tion process described in paragraph (5); and
(E) any other factor, as determined by the
Secretary.
(4) ADJACENT LAND STATUS.—For each par-
cel of land on the priority list, the Secretary
shall include in the priority list whether re-
solving the issue of public access or egress to
the land would require acquisition of an
easement, right-of-way, or fee title from—
(A) another Federal agency;
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(C) a private landowner.
(5) NOMINATION PROCESS.—In preparing a
priority list under this section, the Sec-
retary shall provide an opportunity for mem-
bers of the public to nominate parcels for in-
clusion on the priority list.
(c) ACCESS OPTIONS.—With respect to land
included on a priority list described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall develop and
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
and Energy and Natural Resources of the
Senate and the Committees on Appropria-
tions and Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives a report on options for pro-
viding access that—
(1) identifies how public access and egress
could reasonably be provided to the legal
boundaries of the land in a manner that
minimizes the impact on wildlife habitat and
water quality;
(2) specifies the steps recommended to se-
cure the access and egress, including acquir-
ing an easement, right-of-way, or fee title
from a willing owner of any land that abuts
the land or the need to coordinate with State
land management agencies or other Federal,
State, or Tribal governments to allow for
such access and egress; and
(3) is consistent with the travel manage-
ment plan in effect on the land.
(d) PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FYING INFORMATION.—In making the priority
list and report prepared under subsections
(b) and (c) available, the Secretary shall en-
sure that no personally identifying informa-
tion is included, such as names or addresses
of individuals or entities.
(e) WILLING OWNERS.—For purposes of pro-
viding any permits to, or entering into
agreements with, a State, local, or Tribal
government or private landowner with re-
spect to the use of land under the jurisdic-
tion of the government or landowner, the
Secretary shall not take into account wheth-
er the State, local, or Tribal government or
private landowner has granted or denied pub-
lic access or egress to the land.
(f) MEANS OF PUBLIC ACCESS AND EGRESS
INCLUDED.—In considering public access and
egress under subsections (b) and (c), the Sec-
retary shall consider public access and egress
to the legal boundaries of the land described
in those subsections, including access and
egress—
(1) by motorized or non-motorized vehicles;
and
(2) on foot or horseback.
(g) EFFECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall have no
effect on whether a particular recreational
use shall be allowed on the land included in
a priority list under this section.
(2) EFFECT OF ALLOWABLE USES ON AGENCY
CONSIDERATION.—In preparing the priority
list under subsection (b), the Secretary shall
only consider recreational uses that are al-
lowed on the land at the time that the pri-
ority list is prepared.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
SEC. 4201. FEDERAL ACTION TRANSPARENCY.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EQUAL ACCESS TO JUS-
TICE PROVISIONS.—
(1) AGENCY PROCEEDINGS.—Section 504 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘,
United States Code’’;
(B) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (i); and
(C) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e)(1) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States, after consultation with
the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration, shall submit to
Congress and make publicly available online
a report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year under this section.
‘‘(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall
describe the number, nature, and amount of
the awards, the claims involved in the con-
troversy, and any other relevant information
that may aid Congress in evaluating the
scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(3)(A) Each report under paragraph (1)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this section
that are made pursuant to a settlement
agreement, regardless of whether the settle-
ment agreement is sealed or otherwise sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(B) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under subparagraph (A) shall
not affect any other information that is sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision in a settle-
ment agreement.
‘‘(f) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under subsection (e)(1) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this section made on or after the date
of enactment of the Natural Resources Man-
agement Act, the following information:
‘‘(1) The case name and number of the ad-
versary adjudication, if available,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(2) The name of the agency involved in
the adversary adjudication.
‘‘(3) A description of the claims in the ad-
versary adjudication.
‘‘(4) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(5) The amount of the award.
‘‘(6) The basis for the finding that the posi-
tion of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(g) The online searchable database de-
scribed in subsection (f) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(h) The head of each agency shall provide
to the Chairman of the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States in a timely
manner all information requested by the
Chairman to comply with the requirements
of subsections (e), (f), and (g).’’.
(2) COURT CASES.—Section 2412(d) of title
28, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(5)(A) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1246 February 12, 2019
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States shall submit to Con-
gress and make publicly available online a
report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year pursuant to this subsection.
‘‘(B) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall describe the number, nature, and
amount of the awards, the claims involved in
the controversy, and any other relevant in-
formation that may aid Congress in evalu-
ating the scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(C)(i) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this sub-
section that are made pursuant to a settle-
ment agreement, regardless of whether the
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise
subject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(ii) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under clause (i) shall not af-
fect any other information that is subject to
a nondisclosure provision in a settlement
agreement.
‘‘(D) The Chairman of the Administrative
Conference of the United States shall include
and clearly identify in each annual report
under subparagraph (A), for each case in
which an award of fees and other expenses is
included in the report—
‘‘(i) any amounts paid under section 1304 of
title 31 for a judgment in the case;
‘‘(ii) the amount of the award of fees and
other expenses; and
‘‘(iii) the statute under which the plaintiff
filed suit.
‘‘(6) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under paragraph (5)(A) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this subsection made on or after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, the following information:
‘‘(A) The case name and number,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(B) The name of the agency involved in
the case.
‘‘(C) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(D) A description of the claims in the
case.
‘‘(E) The amount of the award.
‘‘(F) The basis for the finding that the po-
sition of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(7) The online searchable database de-
scribed in paragraph (6) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(8) The head of each agency (including the
Attorney General of the United States) shall
provide to the Chairman of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States in a
timely manner all information requested by
the Chairman to comply with the require-
ments of paragraphs (5), (6), and (7).’’.
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—Section 2412 of title 28, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)(3), by striking
‘‘United States Code,’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking ‘‘of section 2412 of title 28,
United States Code,’’ and inserting ‘‘of this
section’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘of such title’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘of this title’’.
(b) JUDGMENT FUND TRANSPARENCY.—Sec-
tion 1304 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) Beginning not later than the date that
is 60 days after the date of enactment of the
Natural Resources Management Act, and un-
less the disclosure of such information is
otherwise prohibited by law or a court order,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall make
available to the public on a website, as soon
as practicable, but not later than 30 days
after the date on which a payment under this
section is tendered, the following informa-
tion with regard to that payment:
‘‘(1) The name of the specific agency or en-
tity whose actions gave rise to the claim or
judgment.
‘‘(2) The name of the plaintiff or claimant.
‘‘(3) The name of counsel for the plaintiff
or claimant.
‘‘(4) The amount paid representing prin-
cipal liability, and any amounts paid rep-
resenting any ancillary liability, including
attorney fees, costs, and interest.
‘‘(5) A brief description of the facts that
gave rise to the claim.
‘‘(6) The name of the agency that sub-
mitted the claim.’’.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
SEC. 4301. FEDERAL CLOSING DATE FOR HUNT-
ING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.
Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
(16 U.S.C. 704) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(c) FEDERAL FRAMEWORK CLOSING DATE
FOR HUNTING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS RELATING TO FRAMEWORK
CLOSING DATE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In promulgating regula-
tions under subsection (a) relating to the
Federal framework for the closing date up to
which the States may select seasons for mi-
gratory bird hunting, except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall, with re-
spect to the hunting season for ducks, mer-
gansers, and coots—
‘‘(i) subject to subparagraph (B), adopt the
recommendation of each respective flyway
council (as defined in section 20.152 of title
50, Code of Federal Regulations) for the Fed-
eral framework if the Secretary determines
that the recommendation is consistent with
science-based and sustainable harvest man-
agement; and
‘‘(ii) allow the States to establish the clos-
ing date for the hunting season in accord-
ance with the Federal framework.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT.—The framework clos-
ing date promulgated by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) shall not be later than Jan-
uary 31 of each year.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL HUNTING DAYS FOR YOUTHS,
VETERANS, AND ACTIVE MILITARY PER-
SONNEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
Federal framework closing date under para-
graph (1) and subject to subparagraphs (B)
and (C), the Secretary shall allow States to
select 2 days for youths and 2 days for vet-
erans (as defined in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code) and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty, including
members of the National Guard and Reserves
on active duty (other than for training), to
hunt eligible ducks, geese, swans, mergan-
sers, coots, moorhens, and gallinules, if the
Secretary determines that the addition of
those days is consistent with science-based
and sustainable harvest management. Such
days shall be treated as separate from, and
in addition to, the annual Federal frame-
work hunting season lengths.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In selecting days
under subparagraph (A), a State shall ensure
that—
‘‘(i) the days selected—
‘‘(I) may only include the hunting of duck,
geese, swan, merganser, coot, moorhen, and
gallinule species that are eligible for hunting
under the applicable annual Federal frame-
work;
‘‘(II) are not more than 14 days before or
after the Federal framework hunting season
for ducks, mergansers, and coots; and
‘‘(III) are otherwise consistent with the
Federal framework; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of days in a hunting
season for any migratory bird species, in-
cluding any days selected under subpara-
graph (A), is not more than 107 days.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—A State may combine
the 2 days allowed for youths with the 2 days
allowed for veterans and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty under subpara-
graph (A), but in no circumstance may a
State have more than a total of 4 additional
days added to its regular hunting season for
any purpose.
‘‘(3) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
promulgate regulations in accordance with
this subsection for the Federal framework
for migratory bird hunting for the 2019–2020
hunting season and each hunting season
thereafter.’’.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 4401. RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title—
(1) affects or modifies any treaty or other
right of any federally recognized Indian
Tribe; or
(2) modifies any provision of Federal law
relating to migratory birds or to endangered
or threatened species.
SEC. 4402. NO PRIORITY.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title provides a preference to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
over any other use of Federal land or water.
SEC. 4403. STATE AUTHORITY FOR FISH AND
WILDLIFE.
Nothing in this title—
(1) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
or the Secretary to require Federal licenses
or permits to hunt and fish on Federal land;
or
(2) enlarges or diminishes the responsi-
bility or authority of States with respect to
fish and wildlife management.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
SEC. 5001. NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING
AND MONITORING SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Geological Sur-
vey.
(2) SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘System’’ means
the National Volcano Early Warning and
Monitoring System established under sub-
section (b)(1)(A).
(b) NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING AND
MONITORING SYSTEM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish within the United States Geological
Survey a system, to be known as the ‘‘Na-
tional Volcano Early Warning and Moni-
toring System’’, to monitor, warn, and pro-
tect citizens of the United States from undue
and avoidable harm from volcanic activity.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the System
are—
(i) to organize, modernize, standardize, and
stabilize the monitoring systems of the vol-
cano observatories in the United States,
which includes the Alaska Volcano Observ-
atory, California Volcano Observatory, Cas-
cades Volcano Observatory, Hawaiian Vol-
cano Observatory, and Yellowstone Volcano
Observatory; and
(ii) to unify the monitoring systems of vol-
cano observatories in the United States into
a single interoperative system.
(C) OBJECTIVE.—The objective of the Sys-
tem is to monitor all the volcanoes in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1247
February 12, 2019
United States at a level commensurate with
the threat posed by the volcanoes by—
(i) upgrading existing networks on mon-
itored volcanoes;
(ii) installing new networks on
unmonitored volcanoes; and
(iii) employing geodetic and other compo-
nents when applicable.
(2) SYSTEM COMPONENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The System shall in-
clude—
(i) a national volcano watch office that is
operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a week;
(ii) a national volcano data center; and
(iii) an external grants program to support
research in volcano monitoring science and
technology.
(B) MODERNIZATION ACTIVITIES.—Mod-
ernization activities under the System shall
include the comprehensive application of
emerging technologies, including digital
broadband seismometers, real-time contin-
uous Global Positioning System receivers,
satellite and airborne radar interferometry,
acoustic pressure sensors, and spectrometry
to measure gas emissions.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a 5-year
management plan for establishing and oper-
ating the System.
(ii) INCLUSIONS.—The management plan
submitted under clause (i) shall include—
(I) annual cost estimates for modernization
activities and operation of the System;
(II) annual milestones, standards, and per-
formance goals; and
(III) recommendations for, and progress to-
wards, establishing new, or enhancing exist-
ing, partnerships to leverage resources.
(B) ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—The Secretary
shall establish an advisory committee to as-
sist the Secretary in implementing the Sys-
tem, to be comprised of representatives of
relevant agencies and members of the sci-
entific community, to be appointed by the
Secretary.
(C) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with in-
stitutions of higher education and State
agencies designating the institutions of
higher education and State agencies as vol-
cano observatory partners for the System.
(D) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the activities under this section
with the heads of relevant Federal agencies,
including—
(i) the Secretary of Transportation;
(ii) the Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration;
(iii) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration; and
(iv) the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—Annually, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report that
describes the activities carried out under
this section.
(c) FUNDING.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $55,000,000 for the pe-
riod of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
(2) EFFECT ON OTHER SOURCES OF FEDERAL
FUNDING.—Amounts made available under
this subsection shall supplement, and not
supplant, Federal funds made available for
other United States Geological Survey haz-
ards activities and programs.
SEC. 5002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL
GEOLOGIC MAPPING ACT OF 1992.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Na-
tional Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43
U.S.C. 31h(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2018’’
and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
4(b)(1) of the National Geologic Mapping Act
of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(b)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land Management
Act of 2009’’ each place it appears in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) and inserting ‘‘Natural
Resources Management Act’’.
(b) GEOLOGIC MAPPING ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.—Section 5(a)(3) of the National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)(3))
is amended by striking ‘‘Associate Director
for Geology’’ and inserting ‘‘Associate Direc-
tor for Core Science Systems’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 3 of
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992
(43 U.S.C. 31b) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(3)’’;
(2) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(1)’’; and
(3) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(2)’’.
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
SEC. 6001. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA DESIGNA-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The following areas are
designated as National Heritage Areas, to be
administered in accordance with this sec-
tion:
(1) APPALACHIAN FOREST NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WEST VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area
in the States of West Virginia and Maryland,
as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Appa-
lachian Forest National Heritage Area’’,
numbered T07/80,000, and dated October 2007,
including—
(i) Barbour, Braxton, Grant, Greenbrier,
Hampshire, Hardy, Mineral, Morgan, Nich-
olas, Pendleton, Pocahontas, Preston, Ran-
dolph, Tucker, Upshur, and Webster Counties
in West Virginia; and
(ii) Allegany and Garrett Counties in
Maryland.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Ap-
palachian Forest Heritage Area, Inc., shall
be—
(i) the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A) (referred to in this subparagraph
as the ‘‘local coordinating entity’’); and
(ii) governed by a board of directors that
shall—
(I) include members to represent a geo-
graphic balance across the counties de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) and the States of
West Virginia and Maryland;
(II) be composed of not fewer than 7, and
not more than 15, members elected by the
membership of the local coordinating entity;
(III) be selected to represent a balanced
group of diverse interests, including—
(aa) the forest industry;
(bb) environmental interests;
(cc) cultural heritage interests;
(dd) tourism interests; and
(ee) regional agency partners;
(IV) exercise all corporate powers of the
local coordinating entity;
(V) manage the activities and affairs of the
local coordinating entity; and
(VI) subject to any limitations in the arti-
cles and bylaws of the local coordinating en-
tity, this section, and other applicable Fed-
eral or State law, establish the policies of
the local coordinating entity.
(2) MARITIME WASHINGTON NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Maritime Washington National Heritage
Area in the State of Washington, to include
land in Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, San
Juan, Island, King, Pierce, Thurston, Mason,
Kitsap, Jefferson, Clallam, and Grays Harbor
Counties in the State that is at least par-
tially located within the area that is 1⁄4-mile
landward of the shoreline, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Maritime Wash-
ington National Heritage Area Proposed
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,484, and dated
August, 2014.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Washington Trust for Historic Preservation
shall be the local coordinating entity for the
National Heritage Area designated by sub-
paragraph (A).
(3) MOUNTAINS TO SOUND GREENWAY NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Mountains to Sound Greenway National Her-
itage Area in the State of Washington, to
consist of land in King and Kittitas Counties
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map entitled ‘‘Mountains to Sound Green-
way National Heritage Area Proposed
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,483, and dated
August, 2014 (referred to in this paragraph as
the ‘‘map’’).
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust shall be
the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A).
(C) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the Forest Service;
(iii) the Indian Tribes; and
(iv) the local coordinating entity.
(D) REFERENCES TO INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL.—
Any reference in this paragraph to the terms
‘‘Indian Tribe’’ and ‘‘Tribal’’ shall be consid-
ered, for purposes of the National Heritage
Area designated by subparagraph (A), to
refer to each of the Tribal governments of
the Snoqualmie, Yakama, Tulalip,
Muckleshoot, and Colville Indian Tribes.
(E) MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.—With re-
spect to the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A)—
(i) the preparation of an interpretive plan
under subsection (c)(2)(C)(vii) shall also in-
clude plans for Tribal heritage;
(ii) the Secretary shall ensure that the
management plan developed under sub-
section (c) is consistent with the trust re-
sponsibilities of the Secretary to Indian
Tribes and Tribal treaty rights within the
National Heritage Area;
(iii) the interpretive plan and management
plan for the National Heritage Area shall be
developed in consultation with the Indian
Tribes;
(iv) nothing in this paragraph shall grant
or diminish any hunting, fishing, or gath-
ering treaty right of any Indian Tribe; and
(v) nothing in this paragraph affects the
authority of a State or an Indian Tribe to
manage fish and wildlife, including the regu-
lation of hunting and fishing within the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(4) SACRAMENTO-SAN JOAQUIN DELTA NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, CALIFORNIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National
Heritage Area in the State of California, to
consist of land in Contra Costa, Sacramento,
San Joaquin, Solano, and Yolo Counties in
the State, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Na-
tional Heritage Area Proposed Boundary’’,
numbered T27/105,030, and dated October 2012.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Delta Protection Commission established by
section 29735 of the California Public Re-
sources Code shall be the local coordinating
entity for the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A).
(C) EFFECT.—This paragraph shall not be
interpreted or implemented in a manner that
directly or indirectly has a negative effect
on the operations of the Central Valley
Project, the State Water Project, or any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1248 February 12, 2019
water supply facilities within the Bay-Delta
watershed.
(5) SANTA CRUZ VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA, ARIZONA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area in
the State of Arizona, to consist of land in
Pima and Santa Cruz Counties in the State,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage
Area’’, numbered T09/80,000, and dated No-
vember 13, 2007.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—Santa
Cruz Valley Heritage Alliance, Inc., a non-
profit organization established under the
laws of the State of Arizona, shall be the
local coordinating entity for the National
Heritage Area designated by subparagraph
(A).
(6) SUSQUEHANNA NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA,
PENNSYLVANIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Susquehanna National Heritage Area in the
State of Pennsylvania, to consist of land in
Lancaster and York Counties in the State.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Sus-
quehanna Heritage Corporation, a nonprofit
organization established under the laws of
the State of Pennsylvania, shall be the local
coordinating entity for the National Herit-
age Area designated by subparagraph (A).
(b) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) AUTHORITIES.—For purposes of carrying
out the management plan for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a), the Secretary, acting through
the local coordinating entity, may use
amounts made available under subsection
(g)—
(A) to make grants to the State or a polit-
ical subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes,
nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
(B) to enter into cooperative agreements
with, or provide technical assistance to, the
State or a political subdivision of the State,
Indian Tribes, nonprofit organizations, and
other interested parties;
(C) to hire and compensate staff, which
shall include individuals with expertise in
natural, cultural, and historical resources
protection, and heritage programming;
(D) to obtain money or services from any
source including any money or services that
are provided under any other Federal law or
program;
(E) to contract for goods or services; and
(F) to undertake to be a catalyst for any
other activity that furthers the National
Heritage Area and is consistent with the ap-
proved management plan.
(2) DUTIES.—The local coordinating entity
for each of the National Heritage Areas des-
ignated by subsection (a) shall—
(A) in accordance with subsection (c), pre-
pare and submit a management plan for the
National Heritage Area to the Secretary;
(B) assist Federal agencies, the State or a
political subdivision of the State, Indian
Tribes, regional planning organizations, non-
profit organizations and other interested
parties in carrying out the approved manage-
ment plan by—
(i) carrying out programs and projects that
recognize, protect, and enhance important
resource values in the National Heritage
Area;
(ii) establishing and maintaining interpre-
tive exhibits and programs in the National
Heritage Area;
(iii) developing recreational and edu-
cational opportunities in the National Herit-
age Area;
(iv) increasing public awareness of, and ap-
preciation for, natural, historical, scenic,
and cultural resources of the National Herit-
age Area;
(v) protecting and restoring historic sites
and buildings in the National Heritage Area
that are consistent with National Heritage
Area themes;
(vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and ap-
propriate signs identifying points of public
access and sites of interest are posted
throughout the National Heritage Area; and
(vii) promoting a wide range of partner-
ships among the Federal Government, State,
Tribal, and local governments, organiza-
tions, and individuals to further the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(C) consider the interests of diverse units
of government, businesses, organizations,
and individuals in the National Heritage
Area in the preparation and implementation
of the management plan;
(D) conduct meetings open to the public at
least semiannually regarding the develop-
ment and implementation of the manage-
ment plan;
(E) for any year that Federal funds have
been received under this subsection—
(i) submit to the Secretary an annual re-
port that describes the activities, expenses,
and income of the local coordinating entity
(including grants to any other entities dur-
ing the year that the report is made);
(ii) make available to the Secretary for
audit all records relating to the expenditure
of the funds and any matching funds; and
(iii) require, with respect to all agreements
authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by
other organizations, that the organizations
receiving the funds make available to the
Secretary for audit all records concerning
the expenditure of the funds; and
(F) encourage by appropriate means eco-
nomic viability that is consistent with the
National Heritage Area.
(3) PROHIBITION ON THE ACQUISITION OF REAL
PROPERTY.—The local coordinating entity
shall not use Federal funds made available
under subsection (g) to acquire real property
or any interest in real property.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
local coordinating entity for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a) shall submit to the Secretary for
approval a proposed management plan for
the National Heritage Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The management plan
shall—
(A) incorporate an integrated and coopera-
tive approach for the protection, enhance-
ment, and interpretation of the natural, cul-
tural, historic, scenic, and recreational re-
sources of the National Heritage Area;
(B) take into consideration Federal, State,
local, and Tribal plans and treaty rights;
(C) include—
(i) an inventory of—
(I) the resources located in the National
Heritage Area; and
(II) any other property in the National
Heritage Area that—
(aa) is related to the themes of the Na-
tional Heritage Area; and
(bb) should be preserved, restored, man-
aged, or maintained because of the signifi-
cance of the property;
(ii) comprehensive policies, strategies and
recommendations for conservation, funding,
management, and development of the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(iii) a description of actions that the Fed-
eral Government, State, Tribal, and local
governments, private organizations, and in-
dividuals have agreed to take to protect the
natural, historical, cultural, scenic, and rec-
reational resources of the National Heritage
Area;
(iv) a program of implementation for the
management plan by the local coordinating
entity that includes a description of—
(I) actions to facilitate ongoing collabora-
tion among partners to promote plans for re-
source protection, restoration, and construc-
tion; and
(II) specific commitments for implementa-
tion that have been made by the local co-
ordinating entity or any government, orga-
nization, or individual for the first 5 years of
operation;
(v) the identification of sources of funding
for carrying out the management plan;
(vi) analysis and recommendations for
means by which Federal, State, local, and
Tribal programs, including the role of the
National Park Service in the National Herit-
age Area, may best be coordinated to carry
out this subsection; and
(vii) an interpretive plan for the National
Heritage Area; and
(D) recommend policies and strategies for
resource management that consider and de-
tail the application of appropriate land and
water management techniques, including the
development of intergovernmental and inter-
agency cooperative agreements to protect
the natural, historical, cultural, educational,
scenic, and recreational resources of the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(3) DEADLINE.—If a proposed management
plan is not submitted to the Secretary by
the date that is 3 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the local coordinating
entity shall be ineligible to receive addi-
tional funding under this section until the
date on which the Secretary receives and ap-
proves the management plan.
(4) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of receipt of the management
plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in
consultation with State and Tribal govern-
ments, shall approve or disapprove the man-
agement plan.
(B) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—In deter-
mining whether to approve the management
plan, the Secretary shall consider whether—
(i) the local coordinating entity is rep-
resentative of the diverse interests of the
National Heritage Area, including Federal,
State, Tribal, and local governments, nat-
ural and historic resource protection organi-
zations, educational institutions, businesses,
and recreational organizations;
(ii) the local coordinating entity has af-
forded adequate opportunity, including pub-
lic hearings, for public and governmental in-
volvement in the preparation of the manage-
ment plan; and
(iii) the resource protection and interpre-
tation strategies contained in the manage-
ment plan, if implemented, would adequately
protect the natural, historical, and cultural
resources of the National Heritage Area.
(C) ACTION FOLLOWING DISAPPROVAL.—If the
Secretary disapproves the management plan
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall—
(i) advise the local coordinating entity in
writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
(ii) make recommendations for revisions to
the management plan; and
(iii) not later than 180 days after the re-
ceipt of any proposed revision of the manage-
ment plan from the local coordinating enti-
ty, approve or disapprove the proposed revi-
sion.
(D) AMENDMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ap-
prove or disapprove each amendment to the
management plan that the Secretary deter-
mines make a substantial change to the
management plan.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—The local coordinating
entity shall not use Federal funds authorized
by this subsection to carry out any amend-
ments to the management plan until the
Secretary has approved the amendments.
(d) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1249
February 12, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects the authority of a Federal agency to
provide technical or financial assistance
under any other law.
(2) CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION.—The
head of any Federal agency planning to con-
duct activities that may have an impact on
a National Heritage Area designated by sub-
section (a) is encouraged to consult and co-
ordinate the activities with the Secretary
and the local coordinating entity to the
maximum extent practicable.
(3) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in
this section—
(A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or
regulation authorizing a Federal agency to
manage Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Federal agency;
(B) limits the discretion of a Federal land
manager to implement an approved land use
plan within the boundaries of a National
Heritage Area designated by subsection (a);
or
(C) modifies, alters, or amends any author-
ized use of Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of a Federal agency.
(e) PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY
PROTECTIONS.—Nothing in this section—
(1) abridges the rights of any property
owner (whether public or private), including
the right to refrain from participating in any
plan, project, program, or activity conducted
within a National Heritage Area designated
by subsection (a);
(2) requires any property owner—
(A) to permit public access (including ac-
cess by Federal, State, or local agencies) to
the property of the property owner; or
(B) to modify public access or use of prop-
erty of the property owner under any other
Federal, State, or local law;
(3) alters any duly adopted land use regula-
tion, approved land use plan, or other regu-
latory authority of any Federal, State, Trib-
al, or local agency;
(4) conveys any land use or other regu-
latory authority to the local coordinating
entity;
(5) authorizes or implies the reservation or
appropriation of water or water rights;
(6) enlarges or diminishes the treaty rights
of any Indian Tribe within the National Her-
itage Area;
(7) diminishes—
(A) the authority of the State to manage
fish and wildlife, including the regulation of
fishing and hunting within a National Herit-
age Area designated by subsection (a); or
(B) the authority of Indian Tribes to regu-
late members of Indian Tribes with respect
to fishing, hunting, and gathering in the ex-
ercise of treaty rights; or
(8) creates any liability, or affects any li-
ability under any other law, of any private
property owner with respect to any person
injured on the private property.
(f) EVALUATION AND REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For each of the National
Heritage Areas designated by subsection (a),
not later than 3 years before the date on
which authority for Federal funding termi-
nates for each National Heritage Area, the
Secretary shall—
(A) conduct an evaluation of the accom-
plishments of the National Heritage Area;
and
(B) prepare a report in accordance with
paragraph (3).
(2) EVALUATION.—An evaluation conducted
under paragraph (1)(A) shall—
(A) assess the progress of the local man-
agement entity with respect to—
(i) accomplishing the purposes of the au-
thorizing legislation for the National Herit-
age Area; and
(ii) achieving the goals and objectives of
the approved management plan for the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(B) analyze the investments of the Federal
Government, State, Tribal, and local govern-
ments, and private entities in each National
Heritage Area to determine the impact of
the investments; and
(C) review the management structure,
partnership relationships, and funding of the
National Heritage Area for purposes of iden-
tifying the critical components for sustain-
ability of the National Heritage Area.
(3) REPORT.—Based on the evaluation con-
ducted under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives a report that in-
cludes recommendations for the future role
of the National Park Service, if any, with re-
spect to the National Heritage Area.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated for each National Heritage
Area designated by subsection (a) to carry
out the purposes of this section $10,000,000, of
which not more than $1,000,000 may be made
available in any fiscal year.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraph (1) shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(3) COST-SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of the
total cost of any activity under this section
shall be not more than 50 percent.
(B) FORM.—The non-Federal contribution
of the total cost of any activity under this
section may be in the form of in-kind con-
tributions of goods or services fairly valued.
(4) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on the
date that is 15 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 6002. ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES OF LIN-
COLN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—Section
443(b)(1) of the Consolidated Natural Re-
sources Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–229; 122
Stat. 819) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, Livingston,’’ after ‘‘La-
Salle’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, the city of Jonesboro in
Union County, and the city of Freeport in
Stephenson County’’ after ‘‘Woodford coun-
ties’’.
(b) MAP.—The Secretary shall update the
map referred to in section 443(b)(2) of the
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008
to reflect the boundary adjustment made by
the amendments in subsection (a).
SEC. 6003. FINGER LAKES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HERITAGE AREA.—The term ‘‘Heritage
Area’’ means the Finger Lakes National Her-
itage Area.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New York.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means—
(A) the counties in the State of Cayuga,
Chemung, Cortland, Livingston, Monroe, On-
ondaga, Ontario, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben,
Tioga, Tompkins, Wayne, and Yates; and
(B) any other areas in the State that—
(i) have heritage aspects that are similar
to the areas described in subparagraph (A);
and
(ii) are adjacent to, or in the vicinity of,
those areas.
(b) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with State and local historic pres-
ervation officers, State and local historical
societies, State and local tourism offices,
and other appropriate organizations and gov-
ernmental agencies, shall conduct a study to
assess the suitability and feasibility of desig-
nating the study area as a National Heritage
Area, to be known as the ‘‘Finger Lakes Na-
tional Heritage Area’’.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The study shall in-
clude analysis, documentation, and deter-
minations on whether the study area—
(A) has an assemblage of natural, historic,
and cultural resources that—
(i) represent distinctive aspects of the her-
itage of the United States;
(ii) are worthy of recognition, conserva-
tion, interpretation, and continuing use; and
(iii) would be best managed—
(I) through partnerships among public and
private entities; and
(II) by linking diverse and sometimes non-
contiguous resources and active commu-
nities;
(B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs,
and folklife that are a valuable part of the
story of the United States;
(C) provides outstanding opportunities—
(i) to conserve natural, historic, cultural,
or scenic features; and
(ii) for recreation and education;
(D) contains resources that—
(i) are important to any identified themes
of the study area; and
(ii) retain a degree of integrity capable of
supporting interpretation;
(E) includes residents, business interests,
nonprofit organizations, and State and local
governments that—
(i) are involved in the planning of the Her-
itage Area;
(ii) have developed a conceptual financial
plan that outlines the roles of all partici-
pants in the Heritage Area, including the
Federal Government; and
(iii) have demonstrated support for the des-
ignation of the Heritage Area;
(F) has a potential management entity to
work in partnership with the individuals and
entities described in subparagraph (E) to de-
velop the Heritage Area while encouraging
State and local economic activity; and
(G) has a conceptual boundary map that is
supported by the public.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate a report that de-
scribes—
(1) the findings of the study under sub-
section (b); and
(2) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 6004. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) RIVERS OF STEEL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 409(a) of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4256; 129 Stat.
2551) is amended in the second sentence, by
striking ‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(b) ESSEX NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—Sec-
tion 508(a) of the Omnibus Parks and Public
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law
104–333; 110 Stat. 4260; 129 Stat. 2551) is
amended in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(c) OHIO & ERIE NATIONAL HERITAGE
CANALWAY.—Section 810(a) of the Omnibus
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of
1996 (Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275; 122
Stat. 826) is amended by striking the second
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘Not
more than a total of $20,000,000 may be appro-
priated for the canalway under this title.’’.
(d) BLUE RIDGE NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—The Blue Ridge National Heritage
Area Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–108; 117
Stat. 1274; 131 Stat. 461; 132 Stat. 661) is
amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1250 February 12, 2019
(1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking
‘‘$12,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$14,000,000’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (j) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on Sep-
tember 30, 2021.’’.
(e) MOTORCITIES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 110(a) of the Automobile Na-
tional Heritage Area Act (Public Law 105–
355; 112 Stat. 3252) is amended, in the second
sentence, by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$12,000,000’’.
(f) WHEELING NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
Subsection (h)(1) of the Wheeling National
Heritage Area Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
291; 114 Stat. 967; 128 Stat. 2421; 129 Stat. 2550)
is amended by striking ‘‘$13,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
(g) TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 208 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4248; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘after’’ and all that
follows through the period at the end and in-
serting the following: ‘‘after September 30,
2021.’’.
(h) AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 310 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4252; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(i) SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE
CORRIDOR.—Section 607 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4264; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(j) OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
The Oil Region National Heritage Area Act
(Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 3368) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘Oil Heritage Region, Inc.’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Oil Re-
gion Alliance of Business, Industry and
Tourism’’.
(k) HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA REDESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Hudson River Valley
National Heritage Area Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275) is amended by
striking ‘‘Hudson River Valley National Her-
itage Area’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River Val-
ley National Heritage Area’’.
(2) REFERENCE IN LAW.—Any reference in a
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or
other record of the United States to the Her-
itage Area referred to in paragraph (1) shall
be deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Maurice
D. Hinchey Hudson River Valley National
Heritage Area’’.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
SEC. 7001. WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVA-
TION.
(a) PARTNERS FOR FISH AND WILDLIFE PRO-
GRAM REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 5 of the
Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act (16 U.S.C.
3774) is amended by striking ‘‘2006 through
2011’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(b) FISH AND WILDLIFE COORDINATION.—
(1) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this sub-
section is to protect water, oceans, coasts,
and wildlife from invasive species.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO FISH AND WILDLIFE CO-
ORDINATION ACT.—
(A) SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.—The first
section of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination
Act (16 U.S.C. 661) is amended by striking
‘‘For the purpose’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act’.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION.—For the purpose’’.
(B) PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS, COASTS,
AND WILDLIFE FROM INVASIVE SPECIES.—The
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
661 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS,
COASTS, AND WILDLIFE FROM
INVASIVE SPECIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CONTROL.—The term ‘control’, with re-
spect to an invasive species, means the eradi-
cation, suppression, or reduction of the popu-
lation of the invasive species within the area
in which the invasive species is present.
‘‘(2) ECOSYSTEM.—The term ‘ecosystem’
means the complex of a community of orga-
nisms and the environment of the organisms.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE STATE.—The term ‘eligible
State’ means any of—
‘‘(A) a State;
‘‘(B) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) American Samoa;
‘‘(F) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands; and
‘‘(G) the United States Virgin Islands.
‘‘(4) INVASIVE SPECIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘invasive spe-
cies’ means an alien species, the introduc-
tion of which causes, or is likely to cause,
economic or environmental harm or harm to
human health.
‘‘(B) ASSOCIATED DEFINITION.—For purposes
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘alien species’,
with respect to a particular ecosystem,
means any species (including the seeds, eggs,
spores, or other biological material of the
species that are capable of propagating the
species) that is not native to the affected
ecosystem.
‘‘(5) MANAGE; MANAGEMENT.—The terms
‘manage’ and ‘management’, with respect to
an invasive species, mean the active imple-
mentation of any activity—
‘‘(A) to reduce or stop the spread of the
invasive species; and
‘‘(B) to inhibit further infestations of the
invasive species, the spread of the invasive
species, or harm caused by the invasive spe-
cies, including investigations regarding
methods for early detection and rapid re-
sponse, prevention, control, or management
of the invasive species.
‘‘(6) PREVENT.—The term ‘prevent’, with
respect to an invasive species, means—
‘‘(A) to hinder the introduction of the
invasive species onto land or water; or
‘‘(B) to impede the spread of the invasive
species within land or water by inspecting,
intercepting, or confiscating invasive species
threats prior to the establishment of the
invasive species onto land or water of an eli-
gible State.
‘‘(7) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term
‘Secretary concerned’ means—
‘‘(A) the Secretary of the Army, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Corps of Engineers;
‘‘(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of the Interior through—
‘‘(i) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service;
‘‘(ii) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
‘‘(iii) the Bureau of Land Management;
‘‘(iv) the Bureau of Reclamation; or
‘‘(v) the National Park Service;
‘‘(C) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of Agriculture through the Forest
Service; and
‘‘(D) the head or a representative of any
other Federal agency the duties of whom re-
quire planning relating to, and the treat-
ment of, invasive species for the purpose of
protecting water and wildlife on land and
coasts and in oceans and water.
‘‘(8) SPECIES.—The term ‘species’ means a
group of organisms, all of which—
‘‘(A) have a high degree of genetic simi-
larity;
‘‘(B) are morphologically distinct;
‘‘(C) generally—
‘‘(i) interbreed at maturity only among
themselves; and
‘‘(ii) produce fertile offspring; and
‘‘(D) show persistent differences from
members of allied groups of organisms.
‘‘(b) CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.—Each
Secretary concerned shall plan and carry out
activities on land directly managed by the
Secretary concerned to protect water and
wildlife by controlling and managing
invasive species—
‘‘(1) to inhibit or reduce the populations of
invasive species; and
‘‘(2) to effectuate restoration or reclama-
tion efforts.
‘‘(c) STRATEGIC PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary con-
cerned shall develop a strategic plan for the
implementation of the invasive species pro-
gram to achieve, to the maximum extent
practicable, a substantive annual net reduc-
tion of invasive species populations or in-
fested acreage on land or water managed by
the Secretary concerned.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION.—Each strategic plan
under paragraph (1) shall be developed—
‘‘(A) in coordination with affected—
‘‘(i) eligible States; and
‘‘(ii) political subdivisions of eligible
States;
‘‘(B) in consultation with federally recog-
nized Indian tribes; and
‘‘(C) in accordance with the priorities es-
tablished by 1 or more Governors of the eligi-
ble States in which an ecosystem affected by
an invasive species is located.
‘‘(3) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In de-
veloping a strategic plan under this sub-
section, the Secretary concerned shall take
into consideration the economic and ecologi-
cal costs of action or inaction, as applicable.
‘‘(d) COST-EFFECTIVE METHODS.—In select-
ing a method to be used to control or man-
age an invasive species as part of a specific
control or management project conducted as
part of a strategic plan developed under sub-
section (c), the Secretary concerned shall
prioritize the use of methods that—
‘‘(1) effectively control and manage
invasive species, as determined by the Sec-
retary concerned, based on sound scientific
data;
‘‘(2) minimize environmental impacts; and
‘‘(3) control and manage invasive species in
the most cost-effective manner.
‘‘(e) COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT.—
To achieve compliance with subsection (d),
the Secretary concerned shall require a com-
parative economic assessment of invasive
species control and management methods to
be conducted.
‘‘(f) EXPEDITED ACTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries con-
cerned shall use all tools and flexibilities
available (as of the date of enactment of this
section) to expedite the projects and activi-
ties described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS AND ACTIVI-
TIES.—A project or activity referred to in
paragraph (1) is a project or activity—
‘‘(A) to protect water or wildlife from an
invasive species that, as determined by the
Secretary concerned is, or will be, carried
out on land or water that is—
‘‘(i) directly managed by the Secretary
concerned; and
‘‘(ii) located in an area that is—
‘‘(I) at high risk for the introduction, es-
tablishment, or spread of invasive species;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1251
February 12, 2019
‘‘(II) determined by the Secretary con-
cerned to require immediate action to ad-
dress the risk identified in subclause (I); and
‘‘(B) carried out in accordance with appli-
cable agency procedures, including any ap-
plicable—
‘‘(i) land or resource management plan; or
‘‘(ii) land use plan.
‘‘(g) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, the Secretary concerned
shall use not less than 75 percent for on-the-
ground control and management of invasive
species, which may include—
‘‘(1) the purchase of necessary products,
equipment, or services to conduct that con-
trol and management;
‘‘(2) the use of integrated pest management
options, including options that use pesticides
authorized for sale, distribution, or use
under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
‘‘(3) the use of biological control agents
that are proven to be effective to reduce
invasive species populations;
‘‘(4) the use of revegetation or cultural res-
toration methods designed to improve the di-
versity and richness of ecosystems;
‘‘(5) the use of monitoring and detection
activities for invasive species, including
equipment, detection dogs, and mechanical
devices;
‘‘(6) the use of appropriate methods to re-
move invasive species from a vehicle or ves-
sel capable of conveyance; or
‘‘(7) the use of other effective mechanical
or manual control methods.
‘‘(h) INVESTIGATIONS, OUTREACH, AND PUB-
LIC AWARENESS.—Of the amount appro-
priated or otherwise made available to each
Secretary concerned for a fiscal year for pro-
grams that address or include protection of
land or water from an invasive species, the
Secretary concerned may use not more than
15 percent for investigations, development
activities, and outreach and public aware-
ness efforts to address invasive species con-
trol and management needs.
‘‘(i) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, not more than 10 percent
may be used for administrative costs in-
curred to carry out those programs, includ-
ing costs relating to oversight and manage-
ment of the programs, recordkeeping, and
implementation of the strategic plan devel-
oped under subsection (c).
‘‘(j) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Not later
than 60 days after the end of the second fis-
cal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of this section, each Secretary con-
cerned shall submit to Congress a report—
‘‘(1) describing the use by the Secretary
concerned during the 2 preceding fiscal years
of funds for programs that address or include
invasive species management; and
‘‘(2) specifying the percentage of funds ex-
pended for each of the purposes specified in
subsections (g), (h), and (i).
‘‘(k) RELATION TO OTHER AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) OTHER INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL, PRE-
VENTION, AND MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary concerned from pursuing or sup-
porting, pursuant to any other provision of
law, any activity regarding the control, pre-
vention, or management of an invasive spe-
cies, including investigations to improve the
control, prevention, or management of the
invasive species.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
concerned to suspend any water delivery or
diversion, or otherwise to prevent the oper-
ation of a public water supply system, as a
measure to control, manage, or prevent the
introduction or spread of an invasive species.
‘‘(l) USE OF PARTNERSHIPS.—Subject to the
subsections (m) and (n), the Secretary con-
cerned may enter into any contract or coop-
erative agreement with another Federal
agency, an eligible State, a federally recog-
nized Indian tribe, a political subdivision of
an eligible State, or a private individual or
entity to assist with the control and man-
agement of an invasive species.
‘‘(m) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l), the Secretary concerned and the
applicable Federal agency, eligible State, po-
litical subdivision of an eligible State, or
private individual or entity shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding that de-
scribes—
‘‘(A) the nature of the partnership between
the parties to the memorandum of under-
standing; and
‘‘(B) the control and management activi-
ties to be conducted under the contract or
cooperative agreement.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—A memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
‘‘(A) A prioritized listing of each invasive
species to be controlled or managed.
‘‘(B) An assessment of the total acres of
land or area of water infested by the invasive
species.
‘‘(C) An estimate of the expected total
acres of land or area of water infested by the
invasive species after control and manage-
ment of the invasive species is attempted.
‘‘(D) A description of each specific, inte-
grated pest management option to be used,
including a comparative economic assess-
ment to determine the least-costly method.
‘‘(E) Any map, boundary, or Global Posi-
tioning System coordinates needed to clear-
ly identify the area in which each control or
management activity is proposed to be con-
ducted.
‘‘(F) A written assurance that each partner
will comply with section 15 of the Federal
Noxious Weed Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2814).
‘‘(3) COORDINATION.—If a partner to a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l) is an eligible State, political sub-
division of an eligible State, or private indi-
vidual or entity, the memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall include
a description of—
‘‘(A) the means by which each applicable
control or management effort will be coordi-
nated; and
‘‘(B) the expected outcomes of managing
and controlling the invasive species.
‘‘(4) PUBLIC OUTREACH AND AWARENESS EF-
FORTS.—If a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) involves any out-
reach or public awareness effort, the memo-
randum of understanding under this sub-
section shall include a list of goals and ob-
jectives for each outreach or public aware-
ness effort that have been determined to be
efficient to inform national, regional, State,
Tribal, or local audiences regarding invasive
species control and management.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONS.—The purpose of any
invasive species-related investigation carried
out under a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) shall be—
‘‘(1) to develop solutions and specific rec-
ommendations for control and management
of invasive species; and
‘‘(2) specifically to provide faster imple-
mentation of control and management meth-
ods.
‘‘(o) COORDINATION WITH AFFECTED LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS.—Each project and activity
carried out pursuant to this section shall be
coordinated with affected local governments
in a manner that is consistent with section
202(c)(9) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(9)).’’.
(c) WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(1) REAUTHORIZATIONS.—
(A) REAUTHORIZATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT.—Section 2306(a) of the Af-
rican Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4245(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2007 through
2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(B) REAUTHORIZATION OF ASIAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT OF 1997.—Section 8(a) of
the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997
(16 U.S.C. 4266(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(C) REAUTHORIZATION OF RHINOCEROS AND
TIGER CONSERVATION ACT OF 1994.—Section
10(a) of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conserva-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5306(a)) is amended
by striking ‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting
‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO GREAT APE CONSERVA-
TION ACT OF 2000.—
(A) PANEL.—Section 4(i) of the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6303(i)) is
amended—
(i) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) CONVENTION.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, and every 5
years thereafter, the Secretary may convene
a panel of experts on great apes to identify
the greatest needs and priorities for the con-
servation of great apes.’’;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (5); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the
following:
‘‘(2) COMPOSITION.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the panel referred to in paragraph
(1) includes, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, 1 or more representatives—
‘‘(A) from each country that comprises the
natural range of great apes; and
‘‘(B) with expertise in great ape conserva-
tion.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION PLANS.—In identifying
the conservation needs and priorities under
paragraph (1), the panel referred to in that
paragraph shall consider any relevant great
ape conservation plan or strategy, including
scientific research and findings relating to—
‘‘(A) the conservation needs and priorities
of great apes;
‘‘(B) any regional or species-specific action
plan or strategy;
‘‘(C) any applicable strategy developed or
initiated by the Secretary; and
‘‘(D) any other applicable conservation
plan or strategy.
‘‘(4) FUNDS.—Subject to the availability of
appropriations, the Secretary may use
amounts available to the Secretary to pay
for the costs of convening and facilitating
any meeting of the panel referred to in para-
graph (1).’’.
(B) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—Section 4 of the
Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C.
6303) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary may
award to a person who is otherwise eligible
for a grant under this section a multiyear
grant to carry out a project that the person
demonstrates is an effective, long-term con-
servation strategy for great apes and the
habitat of great apes.
‘‘(2) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this subsection precludes the Secretary from
awarding a grant on an annual basis.’’.
(C) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Section
5(b)(2) of the Great Ape Conservation Act of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1252 February 12, 2019
2000 (16 U.S.C. 6304(b)(2)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$150,000’’.
(D) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 6 of the Great Ape Conservation Act
of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6305) is amended by striking
‘‘2006 through 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(3) AMENDMENTS TO MARINE TURTLE CON-
SERVATION ACT OF 2004.—
(A) PURPOSE.—Section 2 of the Marine Tur-
tle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601) is
amended by striking subsection (b) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is
to assist in the conservation of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises and
the habitats of marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in foreign countries
and territories of the United States by sup-
porting and providing financial resources for
projects—
‘‘(1) to conserve marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, and tortoise habitats under the juris-
diction of United States Fish and Wildlife
Service programs;
‘‘(2) to conserve marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in those habitats; and
‘‘(3) to address other threats to the sur-
vival of marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
and tortoises, including habitat loss, poach-
ing of turtles or their eggs, and wildlife traf-
ficking.’’.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—Section 3 of the Marine
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C.
6602) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘nesting habitats of marine
turtles in foreign countries and of marine
turtles in those habitats’’ and inserting ‘‘ma-
rine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises, and the habitats of marine turtles,
freshwater turtles, and tortoises, in foreign
countries and territories of the United
States under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs’’;
(II) in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), by
striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(III) in subparagraph (D)—
(aa) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘countries to—’’ and inserting
‘‘countries—’’;
(bb) in clause (i)—
(AA) by inserting ‘‘to’’ before ‘‘protect’’;
and
(BB) by striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it
appears; and
(cc) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘to’’ before
‘‘prevent’’;
(IV) in subparagraph (E)(i), by striking
‘‘turtles on nesting habitat’’ and inserting
‘‘turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises’’;
(V) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘tur-
tles over habitat used by marine turtles for
nesting’’ and inserting ‘‘turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises over habitats used by
marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises’’; and
(VI) in subparagraph (H), by striking
‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (4), (6), (7), and (8), re-
spectively;
(iii) by inserting before paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(3) FRESHWATER TURTLE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ means any member of the family
Carettochelyidae, Chelidae, Chelydridae,
Dermatemydidae, Emydidae, Geoemydidae,
Kinosternidae, Pelomedusidae,
Platysternidae, Podocnemididae, or
Trionychidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ includes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a turtle described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a turtle.’’;
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(5) HABITAT.—The term ‘habitat’ means
any marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or tor-
toise habitat (including a nesting habitat)
that is under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs.’’;
and
(v) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(9) TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES.—
The term ‘territory of the United States’
means—
‘‘(A) American Samoa;
‘‘(B) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) the United States Virgin Islands; and
‘‘(F) any other territory or possession of
the United States.
‘‘(10) TORTOISE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘tortoise’
means any member of the family
Testudinidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘tortoise’ in-
cludes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a tortoise described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a tortoise.’’.
(C) CONSERVATION ASSISTANCE.—Section 4
of the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of
2004 (16 U.S.C. 6603) is amended—
(i) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘MA-
RINE TURTLE’’;
(ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, fresh-
water turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine
turtles’’;
(iii) in subsection (b)(1)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘, freshwater turtles, or
tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine turtles’’;
(II) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) any wildlife management authority of
a foreign country or territory of the United
States that has within its boundaries marine
turtle, freshwater turtle, or tortoise habitat,
if the activities of the authority directly or
indirectly affect marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, or tortoise conservation; or’’; and
(III) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’;
(iv) in subsection (c)(2), in each of subpara-
graphs (A) and (C), by inserting ‘‘and terri-
tory of the United States’’ after ‘‘each coun-
try’’;
(v) by striking subsection (d) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(d) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—The Sec-
retary may approve a project proposal under
this section if the Secretary determines that
the project will help to restore, recover, and
sustain a viable population of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises in the
wild by assisting efforts in a foreign country
or territory of the United States to imple-
ment a marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or
tortoise conservation program.’’; and
(vi) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘marine
turtles and their nesting habitats’’ and in-
serting ‘‘marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
or tortoises and the habitats of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’.
(D) MARINE TURTLE CONSERVATION FUND.—
Section 5 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6604) is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘section
6’’ and inserting ‘‘section 7(a)’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘3 per-
cent, or up to $80,000’’ and inserting ‘‘5 per-
cent, or up to $150,000’’.
(E) ADVISORY GROUP.—Section 6(a) of the
Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16
U.S.C. 6605(a)) is amended by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’.
(F) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 7 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6606) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Fund $5,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—Of the amounts made
available for each fiscal year pursuant to
subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) not less than $1,510,000 shall be used by
the Secretary for marine turtle conservation
purposes in accordance with this Act; and
‘‘(2) of the amounts in excess of the
amount described in paragraph (1), not less
than 40 percent shall be used by the Sec-
retary for freshwater turtle and tortoise con-
servation purposes in accordance with this
Act.’’.
(d) PRIZE COMPETITIONS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) NON-FEDERAL FUNDS.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal funds’’ means funds provided by—
(i) a State;
(ii) a territory of the United States;
(iii) 1 or more units of local or tribal gov-
ernment;
(iv) a private for-profit entity;
(v) a nonprofit organization; or
(vi) a private individual.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service.
(C) WILDLIFE.—The term ‘‘wildlife’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 8 of the
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
666b).
(2) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PREVENTION OF WILDLIFE POACHING AND TRAF-
FICKING.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Prevention of Wildlife Poaching and Traf-
ficking Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the prevention of
wildlife poaching and trafficking’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that prevents
wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pre-
vention of Wildlife Poaching and Trafficking
Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife trafficking and trade;
(II) wildlife conservation and management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1253
February 12, 2019
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
prevent wildlife poaching and trafficking;
and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the pre-
vention of wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the prevention of wildlife poach-
ing and trafficking;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(3) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROMOTION OF WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Promotion of Wildlife Conservation Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the promotion of wildlife
conservation established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the promotion of
wildlife conservation’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the promotion of wildlife
conservation; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
wildlife conservation.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
motion of Wildlife Conservation Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife conservation and management;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote wildlife conservation; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
promotion of wildlife conservation.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the promotion of wildlife con-
servation;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the promotion of wildlife conserva-
tion;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the promotion of wildlife con-
servation; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the promotion of wildlife con-
servation.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(4) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
MANAGEMENT OF INVASIVE SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Management of Invasive Species Technology
Advisory Board established by subparagraph
(C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the management of invasive
species established under subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the management of
invasive species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the management of invasive
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that manages
invasive species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Man-
agement of Invasive Species Technology Ad-
visory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1254 February 12, 2019
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) invasive species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
manage invasive species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
management of invasive species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of invasive
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of invasive spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of invasive spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of invasive
species.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(5) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROTECTION OF ENDANGERED SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Protection of Endangered Species Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the protection of endan-
gered species established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the protection of en-
dangered species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the protection of endangered
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that protects
endangered species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
tection of Endangered Species Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) endangered species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
protect endangered species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
protection of endangered species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the protection of endangered
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the protection of endangered spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the protection of endangered spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the protection of endangered
species.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(6) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
NONLETHAL MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN-WILDLIFE
CONFLICTS.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Nonlethal Management of Human-Wildlife
Conflicts Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the nonlethal management
of human-wildlife conflicts established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the nonlethal man-
agement of human-wildlife conflicts’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1255
February 12, 2019
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
the nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Non-
lethal Management of Human-Wildlife Con-
flicts Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) nonlethal wildlife management;
(II) social aspects of human-wildlife con-
flict management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of subparagraph (C), respectively, the
Board shall consult widely with Federal and
non-Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of native wild-
life species at risk due to conflict with
human activities;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of native
wildlife species at risk due to conflict with
human activities.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(7) ADMINISTRATION OF PRIZE COMPETI-
TIONS.—
(A) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVI-
SORY BOARDS.—An advisory board established
under paragraph (2)(C)(i), (3)(C)(i), (4)(C)(i),
(5)(C)(i), or (6)(C)(i) (referred to in this para-
graph as a ‘‘Board’’) shall comply with the
following requirements:
(i) TERM; VACANCIES.—
(I) TERM.—A member of the Board shall
serve for a term of 5 years.
(II) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Board—
(aa) shall not affect the powers of the
Board; and
(bb) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment was made.
(ii) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 30
days after the date on which all members of
the Board have been appointed, the Board
shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
(iii) MEETINGS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson.
(II) REMOTE PARTICIPATION.—
(aa) IN GENERAL.—Any member of the
Board may participate in a meeting of the
Board through the use of—
(AA) teleconferencing; or
(BB) any other remote business tele-
communications method that allows each
participating member to simultaneously
hear each other participating member during
the meeting.
(bb) PRESENCE.—A member of the Board
who participates in a meeting remotely
under item (aa) shall be considered to be
present at the meeting.
(iv) QUORUM.—A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but
a lesser number of members may hold a
meeting.
(v) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
The Board shall select a Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson from among the members
of the Board.
(vi) ADMINISTRATIVE COST REDUCTION.—The
Board shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, minimize the administrative costs of
the Board, including by encouraging the re-
mote participation described in clause
(iii)(II)(aa) to reduce travel costs.
(B) AGREEMENTS WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—Any agreement en-
tered into under paragraph (2)(D)(i), (3)(D)(i),
(4)(D)(i), (5)(D)(i), or (6)(D)(i) shall comply
with the following requirements:
(i) DUTIES.—An agreement shall provide
that the National Fish and Wildlife Founda-
tion shall—
(I) advertise the prize competition;
(II) solicit prize competition participants;
(III) administer funds relating to the prize
competition;
(IV) receive Federal funds—
(aa) to administer the prize competition;
and
(bb) to award a cash prize;
(V) carry out activities to generate con-
tributions of non-Federal funds to offset, in
whole or in part—
(aa) the administrative costs of the prize
competition; and
(bb) the costs of a cash prize;
(VI) in consultation with, and subject to
final approval by, the Secretary, develop cri-
teria for the selection of prize competition
winners;
(VII) provide advice and consultation to
the Secretary on the selection of judges
under paragraphs (2)(E), (3)(E), (4)(E), (5)(E),
and (6)(E) based on criteria developed in con-
sultation with, and subject to the final ap-
proval of, the Secretary;
(VIII) announce 1 or more annual winners
of the prize competition;
(IX) subject to clause (ii), award 1 cash
prize annually; and
(X) protect against unauthorized use or
disclosure by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation of any trade secret or confiden-
tial business information of a prize competi-
tion participant.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation may award more
than 1 cash prize annually if the initial cash
prize referred to in clause (i)(IX) and any ad-
ditional cash prize are awarded using only
non-Federal funds.
(iii) SOLICITATION OF FUNDS.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation—
(I) may request and accept Federal funds
and non-Federal funds for a cash prize;
(II) may accept a contribution for a cash
prize in exchange for the right to name the
prize; and
(III) shall not give special consideration to
any Federal agency or non-Federal entity in
exchange for a donation for a cash prize
awarded under this subsection.
(C) AWARD AMOUNTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of the initial
cash prize referred to in subparagraph
(B)(i)(IX) shall be $100,000.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—On notifica-
tion by the National Fish and Wildlife Foun-
dation that non-Federal funds are available
for an additional cash prize, the Secretary
shall determine the amount of the additional
cash prize.
SEC. 7002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NEOTROPICAL
MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
ACT.
Section 10 of the Neotropical Migratory
Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6109) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to carry out this Act
$6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Of the amounts made
available under subsection (a) for each fiscal
year, not less than 75 percent shall be ex-
pended for projects carried out at a location
outside of the United States.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1256 February 12, 2019
SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) REPLACEMENT OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
MAPS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
each map included in the set of maps re-
ferred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal Bar-
rier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) that re-
lates to a Unit of such System referred to in
paragraph (2) is replaced in such set with the
map described in that paragraph with re-
spect to that Unit.
(2) REPLACEMENT MAPS DESCRIBED.—The re-
placement maps referred to in paragraph (1)
are the following:
(A) The map entitled ‘‘Delaware Seashore
Unit DE–07/DE–07P North Bethany Beach
Unit H01’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit DE–07, Unit DE–07P, and Unit
H01.
(B) The map entitled ‘‘Pine Island Bay
Unit NC–01/NC–01P’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit NC–01 and Unit
NC–01P.
(C) The map entitled ‘‘Roosevelt Natural
Area Unit NC–05P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit NC–05P.
(D) The map entitled ‘‘Hammocks Beach
Unit NC–06/NC–06P (2 of 2) Onslow Beach
Complex L05 (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit L05.
(E) The map entitled ‘‘Onslow Beach Com-
plex L05 (2 of 2) Topsail Unit L06 (1 of 2)’’ and
dated November 20, 2013, with respect to Unit
L05 and Unit L06.
(F) The map entitled ‘‘Topsail Unit L06 (2
of 2)’’ and dated November 20, 2013, with re-
spect to Unit L06.
(G) The map entitled ‘‘Litchfield Beach
Unit M02 Pawleys Inlet Unit M03’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit M02 and
Unit M03.
(H) The map entitled ‘‘Fort Clinch Unit
FL–01/FL–01P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–01 and Unit FL–01P.
(I) The map entitled ‘‘Usina Beach Unit
P04A Conch Island Unit P05/P05P’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P04A,
Unit P05, and Unit P05P.
(J) The map entitled ‘‘Ponce Inlet Unit
P08/P08P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P08 and Unit P08P.
(K) The map entitled ‘‘Spessard Holland
Park Unit FL–13P Coconut Point Unit P09A/
P09AP’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit FL–13P, Unit P09A, and Unit
P09AP.
(L) The map entitled ‘‘Blue Hole Unit P10A
Pepper Beach Unit FL–14P’’ and dated March
18, 2016, with respect to Unit P10A and Unit
FL–14P.
(M) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11/P11P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit P11 and Unit P11P.
(N) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11 (2 of 2)’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit P11.
(O) The map entitled ‘‘Blowing Rocks Unit
FL–15 Jupiter Beach Unit FL–16P Carlin
Unit FL–17P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–15, Unit FL–16P, and Unit
FL–17P.
(P) The map entitled ‘‘MacArthur Beach
Unit FL–18P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–18P.
(Q) The map entitled ‘‘Birch Park Unit FL–
19P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–19P.
(R) The map entitled ‘‘Lloyd Beach Unit
FL–20P North Beach Unit P14A’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–20P
and Unit P14A.
(S) The map entitled ‘‘Tavernier Key Unit
FL–39 Snake Creek Unit FL–40’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–39
and Unit FL–40.
(T) The map entitled ‘‘Channel Key Unit
FL–43 Toms Harbor Keys Unit FL–44 Deer/
Long Point Keys Unit FL–45’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–43,
Unit FL–44, and FL–45.
(U) The map entitled ‘‘Boot Key Unit FL–
46’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–46.
(V) The map entitled ‘‘Bowditch Point
Unit P17A Bunche Beach Unit FL–67/FL–67P
Sanibel Island Complex P18P (1 of 2)’’ and
dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit
P17A, Unit FL–67, and Unit FL–67P.
(W) The map entitled ‘‘Bocilla Island Unit
P21/P21P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P21 and Unit P21P.
(X) The map entitled ‘‘Venice Inlet Unit
FL–71P Casey Key Unit P22’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P22.
(Y) The map entitled ‘‘Lido Key Unit FL–
72P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–72P.
(Z) The map entitled ‘‘De Soto Unit FL–
73P Rattlesnake Key Unit FL–78 Bishop Har-
bor Unit FL–82’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–73P, Unit FL–78, and
Unit FL–82.
(AA) The map entitled ‘‘Passage Key Unit
FL–80P Egmont Key Unit FL–81/FL–81P The
Reefs Unit P24P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit FL–80P, Unit FL–
81, and Unit FL–81P.
(BB) The map entitled ‘‘Cockroach Bay
Unit FL–83’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–83.
(CC) The map entitled ‘‘Sand Key Unit FL–
85P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–85P.
(DD) The map entitled ‘‘Pepperfish Keys
Unit P26’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P26.
(EE) The map entitled ‘‘Peninsula Point
Unit FL–89’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–89.
(FF) The map entitled ‘‘Phillips Inlet Unit
FL–93/FL–93P Deer Lake Complex FL–94’’
and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–93, Unit FL–93P, and Unit FL–94.
(GG) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (1 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(HH) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (2 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(II) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Complex
P31/P31P (3 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31 and Unit P31P.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—For purposes of para-
graph (1)—
(A) nothing in this subsection affects the
boundaries of any of Units NC–06 and NC–
06P;
(B) the occurrence in paragraph (2) of the
name of a Unit solely in the title of a map
shall not be construed to be a reference to
such Unit; and
(C) the depiction of boundaries of any of
Units P18P, FL–71P, and P24P in a map re-
ferred to in subparagraph (V), (X), or (AA) of
paragraph (2) shall not be construed to affect
the boundaries of such Unit.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 4(a)
of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16
U.S.C. 3503(a)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘replaced,’’ after ‘‘may be’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘replaces
such a map or’’ after ‘‘that specifically’’.
(b) DIGITAL MAPS OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
UNITS.—Section 4(b) of the Coastal Barrier
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(b)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by inserting before the first sentence
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) DIGITAL MAPS.—
‘‘(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall
make available to the public on the Internet
web site of the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service digital versions of the maps in-
cluded in the set of maps referred to in sub-
section (a).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—Any determination as to
whether a location is inside or outside the
System shall be made without regard to the
digital maps available under this paragraph,
except that this subparagraph does not apply
with respect to any printed version of such a
digital map if the printed version is included
in the maps referred to in subsection (a).
‘‘(C) REPORT.—No later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of Natural Re-
sources Management Act, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate a report regard-
ing the progress and challenges in the transi-
tion from paper to digital maps and a time-
table for completion of the digitization of all
maps related to the System.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF REPORT.—Section 3 of Public
Law 109–226 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note) is repealed.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
SEC. 8001. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to facilitate
the transfer of title to Reclamation project
facilities to qualifying entities on the com-
pletion of repayment of capital costs.
SEC. 8002. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONVEYED PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘con-
veyed property’’ means an eligible facility
that has been conveyed to a qualifying enti-
ty under section 8003.
(2) ELIGIBLE FACILITY.—The term ‘‘eligible
facility’’ means a facility that meets the cri-
teria for potential transfer established under
section 8004(a).
(3) FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘facility’’ in-
cludes a dam or appurtenant works, canal,
lateral, ditch, gate, control structure, pump-
ing station, other infrastructure, rec-
reational facility, building, distribution and
drainage works, and associated land or inter-
est in land or water.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘facility’’ does
not include a Reclamation project facility,
or a portion of a Reclamation project facil-
ity—
(i) that is a reserved works as of the date
of enactment of this Act;
(ii) that generates hydropower marketed
by a Federal power marketing administra-
tion; or
(iii) that is managed for recreation under a
lease, permit, license, or other management
agreement that does contribute to capital re-
payment.
(4) PROJECT USE POWER.—The term ‘‘project
use power’’ means the electrical capacity,
energy, and associated ancillary service
components required to provide the min-
imum electrical service needed to operate or
maintain Reclamation project facilities in
accordance with the authorization for the
Reclamation project.
(5) QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The term ‘‘quali-
fying entity’’ means an agency of a State or
political subdivision of a State, a joint ac-
tion or powers agency, a water users associa-
tion, or an Indian Tribe or Tribal utility au-
thority that—
(A) as of the date of conveyance under this
subtitle, is the current operator of the eligi-
ble facility pursuant to a contract with Rec-
lamation; and
(B) as determined by the Secretary, has
the capacity to continue to manage the eligi-
ble facility for the same purposes for which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1257
February 12, 2019
the property has been managed under the
reclamation laws.
(6) RECLAMATION.—The term ‘‘Reclama-
tion’’ means the Bureau of Reclamation.
(7) RECLAMATION PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Rec-
lamation project’’ means—
(A) any reclamation or irrigation project,
including incidental features of the project—
(i) that is authorized by the reclamation
laws;
(ii) that is constructed by the United
States pursuant to the reclamation laws; or
(iii) in connection with which there is a re-
payment or water service contract executed
by the United States pursuant to the rec-
lamation laws; or
(B) any project constructed by the Sec-
retary for the reclamation of land.
(8) RESERVED WORKS.—The term ‘‘reserved
works’’ means any building, structure, facil-
ity, or equipment—
(A) that is owned by the Bureau; and
(B) for which operations and maintenance
are performed, regardless of the source of
funding—
(i) by an employee of the Bureau; or
(ii) through a contract entered into by the
Commissioner.
(9) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the
Commissioner of Reclamation.
SEC. 8003. AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS OF
TITLE TO ELIGIBLE FACILITIES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the require-
ments of this subtitle, the Secretary, with-
out further authorization from Congress,
may, on application of a qualifying entity,
convey to a qualifying entity all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
any eligible facility, if—
(A) not later than 90 days before the date
on which the Secretary makes the convey-
ance, the Secretary submits to Congress—
(i) a written notice of the proposed convey-
ance; and
(ii) a description of the reasons for the con-
veyance; and
(B) a joint resolution disapproving the con-
veyance is not enacted before the date on
which the Secretary makes the conveyance.
(2) CONSULTATION.—A conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be made by written agree-
ment between the Secretary and the quali-
fying entity, developed in consultation with
any existing water and power customers af-
fected by the conveyance of the eligible fa-
cility.
(b) RESERVATION OF EASEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may reserve an easement over a con-
veyed property if—
(1) the Secretary determines that the ease-
ment is necessary for the management of
any interests retained by the Federal Gov-
ernment under this subtitle;
(2) the Reclamation project or a portion of
the Reclamation project remains under Fed-
eral ownership; and
(3) the Secretary enters into an agreement
regarding the easement with the applicable
qualifying entity.
(c) INTERESTS IN WATER.—No interests in
water shall be conveyed under this subtitle
unless the conveyance is provided for in a
separate, quantified agreement between the
Secretary and the qualifying entity, subject
to applicable State law and public process
requirements.
SEC. 8004. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish criteria for determining whether a
facility is eligible for conveyance under this
subtitle.
(b) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) AGREEMENT OF QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that a qualifying
entity shall agree—
(A) to accept title to the eligible facility;
(B) to use the eligible facility for substan-
tially the same purposes for which the eligi-
ble facility is being used at the time the Sec-
retary evaluates the potential transfer; and
(C) to provide, as consideration for the as-
sets to be conveyed, compensation to the
reclamation fund established by the first
section of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat.
388, chapter 1093), in an amount that is the
equivalent of the net present value of any re-
payment obligation to the United States or
other income stream that the United States
derives from the eligible facility to be trans-
ferred, as of the date of the transfer.
(2) DETERMINATIONS OF SECRETARY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) be able to enter into an agreement with
the qualifying entity with respect to the
legal, institutional, and financial arrange-
ments relating to the conveyance;
(B) determine that the proposed transfer—
(i) would not have an unmitigated signifi-
cant effect on the environment;
(ii) is consistent with the responsibilities
of the Secretary—
(I) in the role as trustee for federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribes; and
(II) to ensure compliance with any applica-
ble international and Tribal treaties and
agreements and interstate compacts and
agreements;
(iii) is in the financial interest of the
United States;
(iv) protects the public aspects of the eligi-
ble facility, including water rights managed
for public purposes, such as flood control or
fish and wildlife;
(v) complies with all applicable Federal
and State law; and
(vi) will not result in an adverse impact on
fulfillment of existing water delivery obliga-
tions consistent with historical operations
and applicable contracts; and
(C) if the eligible facility proposed to be
transferred is a dam or diversion works (not
including canals or other project features
that receive or convey water from the divert-
ing works) diverting water from a water
body containing a species listed as a threat-
ened species or an endangered species or crit-
ical habitat under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), determine
that—
(i) the eligible facility continues to comply
with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) in a manner that provides
no less protection to the listed species as ex-
isted under Federal ownership; and
(ii) the eligible facility is not part of the
Central Valley Project in the State of Cali-
fornia.
(3) STATUS OF RECLAMATION LAND.—The cri-
teria established under subsection (a) shall
require that any land to be conveyed out of
Federal ownership under this subtitle is—
(A) land acquired by the Secretary; or
(B) land withdrawn by the Secretary, only
if—
(i) the Secretary determines in writing
that the withdrawn land is encumbered by
facilities to the extent that the withdrawn
land is unsuitable for return to the public
domain; and
(ii) the qualifying entity agrees to pay fair
market value based on historical or existing
uses for the withdrawn land to be conveyed.
(c) HOLD HARMLESS.—No conveyance under
this subtitle shall adversely impact applica-
ble Federal power rates, repayment obliga-
tions, or other project power uses.
SEC. 8005. LIABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance of any eligible facility under this
subtitle, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the eligible facility, other
than damages caused by acts of negligence
committed by the United States or by agents
or employees of the United States prior to
the date of the conveyance.
(b) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section in-
creases the liability of the United States be-
yond that currently provided in chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
SEC. 8006. BENEFITS.
After a conveyance of an eligible facility
under this subtitle—
(1) the conveyed property shall no longer
be considered to be part of a Reclamation
project;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (3), the
qualifying entity to which the conveyed
property is conveyed shall not be eligible to
receive any benefits, including project use
power, with respect to the conveyed prop-
erty, except for any benefit that would be
available to a similarly situated entity with
respect to property that is not a part of a
Reclamation project; and
(3) the qualifying entity to which the con-
veyed property is conveyed may be eligible
to receive project use power if—
(A) the qualifying entity is receiving
project use power as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act;
(B) the project use power will be used for
the delivery of Reclamation project water;
and
(C) the Secretary and the qualifying entity
enter into an agreement under which the
qualifying entity agrees to continue to be re-
sponsible for a proportionate share of oper-
ation and maintenance and capital costs for
the Federal facilities that generate and de-
liver, if applicable, power used for delivery of
Reclamation project water after the date of
conveyance, in accordance with Reclamation
project use power rates.
SEC. 8007. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Before conveying an eli-
gible facility under this subtitle, the Sec-
retary shall comply with all applicable Fed-
eral environmental laws, including—
(1) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(2) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(3) subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that any Federal permitting and
review processes required with respect to a
conveyance of an eligible facility under this
subtitle should be completed with the max-
imum efficiency and effectiveness.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
SEC. 8101. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR
ANNUAL BASE FUNDING OF FISH RE-
COVERY PROGRAMS; REMOVAL OF
CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENT.
Section 3(d) of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1604; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Secretary to be used
by the Bureau of Reclamation to make the
annual base funding contributions to the Re-
covery Implementation Programs $10,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
‘‘(B) NONREIMURSABLE FUNDS.—The funds
contributed to the Recovery Implementation
Programs under subparagraph (A) shall be
considered a nonreimbursable Federal ex-
penditure.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the fourth,
fifth, sixth, and seventh sentences.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1258 February 12, 2019
SEC. 8102. REPORT ON RECOVERY IMPLEMENTA-
TION PROGRAMS.
Section 3 of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1603; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(j) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2021, the Secretary shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report that—
‘‘(A) describes the accomplishments of the
Recovery Implementation Programs;
‘‘(B) identifies—
‘‘(i) as of the date of the report, the listing
status under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) of the Colorado
pikeminnow, humpback chub, razorback
sucker, and bonytail; and
‘‘(ii) as of September 30, 2023, the projected
listing status under that Act of each of the
species referred to in clause (i);
‘‘(C)(i) identifies—
‘‘(I) the total expenditures and the expend-
itures by categories of activities by the Re-
covery Implementation Programs during the
period beginning on the date on which the
applicable Recovery Implementation Pro-
gram was established and ending on Sep-
tember 30, 2021; and
‘‘(II) projected expenditures by the Recov-
ery Implementation Programs during the pe-
riod beginning on October 1, 2021, and ending
on September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) for purposes of the expenditures iden-
tified under clause (i), includes a description
of—
‘‘(I) any expenditures of appropriated
funds;
‘‘(II) any power revenues;
‘‘(III) any contributions by the States,
power customers, Tribes, water users, and
environmental organizations; and
‘‘(IV) any other sources of funds for the Re-
covery Implementation Programs; and
‘‘(D) describes—
‘‘(i) any activities to be carried out under
the Recovery Implementation Program after
September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) the projected cost of the activities de-
scribed under clause (i).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary shall consult with the participants in
the Recovery Implementation Programs in
preparing the report under paragraph (1).’’.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
SEC. 8201. AUTHORIZATION OF PHASE III.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘‘Inte-
grated Plan’’ means the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, the Federal elements of which are
known as ‘‘phase III of the Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’, as de-
scribed in the Bureau of Reclamation docu-
ment entitled ‘‘Record of Decision for the
Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Re-
source Management Plan Final Pro-
grammatic Environmental Impact State-
ment’’ and dated March 2, 2012.
(2) IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The term ‘‘irriga-
tion entity’’ means a district, project, or
State-recognized authority, board of control,
agency, or entity located in the Yakima
River basin that manages and delivers irriga-
tion water to farms in the Yakima River
basin.
(3) PRORATABLE IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The
term ‘‘proratable irrigation entity’’ means
an irrigation entity that possesses, or the
members of which possess, proratable water
(as defined in section 1202 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4551)).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Washington.
(5) TOTAL WATER SUPPLY AVAILABLE.—The
term ‘‘total water supply available’’ has the
meaning given the term in applicable civil
actions, as determined by the Secretary.
(6) YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’ means
the Yakima River basin water enhancement
project authorized by Congress pursuant to
title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550;
114 Stat. 1425) and other Acts (including Pub-
lic Law 96–162 (93 Stat. 1241), section 109 of
Public Law 98–381 (16 U.S.C. 839b note), and
Public Law 105–62 (111 Stat. 1320)) to promote
water conservation, water supply, habitat,
and stream enhancement improvements in
the Yakima River basin.
(b) INTEGRATED PLAN.—
(1) INITIAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As the initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall identify and im-
plement projects under the Integrated Plan
that are prepared to be commenced during
the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(B) REQUIREMENT.—The initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be carried out in accord-
ance with—
(i) this subsection, including any related
plans, reports, and correspondence referred
to in this subsection; and
(ii) title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL DEVELOPMENT
PHASES.—
(A) PLANS.—The Secretary, in coordination
with the State and the Yakama Nation, shall
develop plans for the intermediate and final
development phases of the Integrated Plan
to achieve the purposes of title XII of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425), in-
cluding conducting applicable feasibility
studies, environmental reviews, and other
relevant studies required to develop those
plans.
(B) INTERMEDIATE DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
The Secretary, in coordination with the
State and the Yakama Nation, shall develop
an intermediate development phase of the
Integrated Plan, to commence not earlier
than the date that is 10 years after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(C) FINAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall develop a final de-
velopment phase of the Integrated Plan, to
commence not earlier than the date that is
20 years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(3) REQUIREMENTS.—The projects and ac-
tivities identified by the Secretary for im-
plementation under the Integrated Plan
shall be carried out only—
(A) subject to authorization and appropria-
tion;
(B) contingent on the completion of appli-
cable feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development;
(C) on public review and a determination
by the Secretary that design, construction,
and operation of a proposed project or activ-
ity is in the best interest of the public; and
(D) in accordance with applicable laws, in-
cluding—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(4) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this
subsection—
(A) shall be considered to be a new or sup-
plemental benefit for purposes of the Rec-
lamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa
et seq.);
(B) affects—
(i) any contract in existence on the date of
enactment of this Act that was executed pur-
suant to the reclamation laws; or
(ii) any contract or agreement between the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of
Reclamation;
(C) affects, waives, abrogates, diminishes,
defines, or interprets any treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States; or
(D) constrains the authority of the Sec-
retary to provide fish passage in the Yakima
River basin, in accordance with the Hoover
Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.).
(5) PROGRESS REPORT.—Not later than 5
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary, in conjunction with the
State and in consultation with the Yakama
Nation, shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a progress re-
port on the development and implementa-
tion of the Integrated Plan.
(c) FINANCING, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION,
AND MAINTENANCE OF KACHESS DROUGHT RE-
LIEF PUMPING PLANT AND KEECHELUS TO
KACHESS PIPELINE.—
(1) LONG-TERM AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A long-term agreement
negotiated pursuant to this section or the
reclamation laws between the Secretary and
a participating proratable irrigation entity
in the Yakima River basin for the non-Fed-
eral financing, construction, operation, or
maintenance of the Drought Relief Pumping
Plant or the Keechelus to Kachess Pipeline
shall include provisions regarding—
(i) responsibilities of each participating
proratable irrigation entity for—
(I) the planning, design, and construction
of infrastructure, in consultation and coordi-
nation with the Secretary; and
(II) the pumping and operational costs nec-
essary to provide the total water supply
available that is made inaccessible due to
drought pumping during any preceding cal-
endar year, if the Kachess Reservoir fails to
refill as a result of pumping drought storage
water during such a calendar year;
(ii) property titles and responsibilities of
each participating proratable irrigation enti-
ty for the maintenance of, and liability for,
all infrastructure constructed under title XII
of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat.
1425);
(iii) operation and integration of the
projects by the Secretary in the operation of
the Yakima Project; and
(iv) costs associated with the design, fi-
nancing, construction, operation, mainte-
nance, and mitigation of projects, with the
costs of Federal oversight and review to be
nonreimbursable to the participating prorat-
able irrigation entities and the Yakima
Project.
(B) TREATMENT.—A facility developed or
operated by a participating proratable irri-
gation entity under this subsection shall not
be considered to be a supplemental work for
purposes of section 9(a) of the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(a)).
(2) KACHESS RESERVOIR.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any additional stored
water made available by the construction of
a facility to access and deliver inactive and
natural storage in Kachess Lake and Res-
ervoir under this subsection—
(i) shall be considered to be Yakima
Project water;
(ii) shall be used exclusively by the Sec-
retary to enhance the water supply during
years for which the total water supply avail-
able is not sufficient to provide a percentage
of proratable entitlements in order to make
that additional water available, in a quan-
tity representing not more than 70 percent of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1259
February 12, 2019
proratable entitlements to the Kittitas Rec-
lamation District, the Roza Irrigation Dis-
trict, or any other proratable irrigation enti-
ty participating in the construction, oper-
ation, or maintenance costs of a facility
under this section, in accordance with such
terms and conditions as the districts may
agree, subject to the conditions that—
(I) the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the
Wapato Irrigation Project, and the Yakama
Nation, on an election to participate, may
also obtain water from Kachess Reservoir in-
active storage to enhance applicable existing
irrigation water supply in accordance with
such terms and conditions as the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and the Yakama Nation may
agree; and
(II) the additional supply made available
under this clause shall be available to par-
ticipating individuals and entities based on—
(aa) the proportion that—
(AA) the proratable entitlement of each
participating individual or entity; bears to
(BB) the proratable entitlements of all par-
ticipating individuals and entities; or
(bb) such other proportion as the partici-
pating entities may agree; and
(iii) shall not be any portion of the total
water supply available.
(B) EFFECT OF PARAGRAPH.—Nothing in this
paragraph affects, as in existence on the date
of enactment of this Act, any—
(i) contract;
(ii) law (including regulations) relating to
repayment costs;
(iii) water rights; or
(iv) treaty right of the Yakama Nation.
(3) PROJECT POWER FOR KACHESS PUMPING
PLANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B) through (D), the Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration, pursuant
to the Pacific Northwest Electric Power
Planning and Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 839
et seq.), shall provide to the Secretary
project power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant constructed under this section if
inactive storage in the Kachess Reservoir is
needed to provide drought relief for irriga-
tion.
(B) DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY.—The
project power described in subparagraph (A)
may be provided only if the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(i) there are in effect—
(I) a drought declaration issued by the
State; and
(II) conditions that have led to 70 percent
or lower water delivery to proratable irriga-
tion districts; and
(ii) it is appropriate to provide the power
under that subparagraph.
(C) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY.—The power
described in subparagraph (A) shall be pro-
vided during the period—
(i) beginning on the date on which the Sec-
retary makes the determinations described
in subparagraph (B); and
(ii) ending on the earlier of—
(I) the date that is 1 year after that date;
and
(II) the date on which the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(aa) drought mitigation measures are still
necessary in the Yakima River basin; or
(bb) the power should no longer be provided
for any other reason.
(D) RATE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration shall pro-
vide project power under subparagraph (A) at
the then-applicable lowest Bonneville Power
Administration rate for public body, cooper-
ative, and Federal agency customer firm ob-
ligations on the date on which the authority
is provided.
(ii) NO DISCOUNTS.—The rate under clause
(i) shall not include any irrigation discount.
(E) LOCAL PROVIDER.—During any period
for which project power is not provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
obtain power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant from a local provider.
(F) OTHER COSTS.—The cost of power for
pumping and station service, and the costs of
transmitting power from the Federal Colum-
bia River power system to the pumping fa-
cilities of the Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project, shall be borne by the ir-
rigation districts receiving the benefits of
the applicable water.
(G) DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER.—For purposes
of this paragraph, the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation shall arrange transmission for any
delivery of—
(i) Federal power over the Bonneville sys-
tem through applicable tariff and business
practice processes of that system; or
(ii) power obtained from any local pro-
vider.
(d) DESIGN AND USE OF GROUNDWATER RE-
CHARGE PROJECTS.—The Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the State and the Yakama Na-
tion, may provide technical assistance for,
participate in, and enter into agreements, in-
cluding with irrigation entities for the use of
excess conveyance capacity in Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project facilities,
for—
(1) groundwater recharge projects; and
(2) aquifer storage and recovery projects.
(e) OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF WATER SUP-
PLIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall retain
authority and discretion over the manage-
ment of Yakima River Basin Water Enhance-
ment Project supplies—
(A) to optimize operational use and flexi-
bility; and
(B) to ensure compliance with all applica-
ble Federal and State laws, treaty rights of
the Yakama Nation, and legal obligations,
including those under title XII of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INCLUSION.—The authority and discre-
tion described in paragraph (1) shall include
the ability of the United States to store, de-
liver, conserve, and reuse water supplies de-
riving from projects authorized under title
XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114
Stat. 1425).
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND
GRANTS.—The Secretary may enter into co-
operative agreements and make grants to
carry out this section, including for the pur-
poses of land and water transfers, leases, and
acquisitions from willing participants, sub-
ject to the condition that the acquiring enti-
ty shall hold title to, and be responsible for,
all required operation, maintenance, and
management of the acquired land or water
during any period in which the acquiring en-
tity holds title to the acquired land.
(g) WATER CONSERVATION PROJECTS.—The
Secretary may participate in, provide fund-
ing for, and accept non-Federal financing for
water conservation projects, regardless of
whether the projects are in accordance with
the Yakima River Basin Water Conservation
Program established under section 1203 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4551), that are
intended to partially implement the Inte-
grated Plan by providing conserved water to
improve tributary and mainstem stream
flow.
(h) INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Commissioner of Reclamation,
may contribute funds for the preparation of
plans and investigation measures, and, after
the date on which the Secretary certifies
that the measures are consistent with the
water conservation objectives of this section,
to any Indian irrigation project—
(A) that is located in the Pacific Northwest
Region;
(B) that is identified in the report of the
Government Accountability Office numbered
GAO–15–453T;
(C) that has been identified as part of a Bu-
reau of Reclamation basin study pursuant to
subtitle F of title IX of Public Law 111–11 (42
U.S.C. 10361 et seq.) to increase water supply
for the Pacific Northwest Region; and
(D) an improvement to which would con-
tribute to the flow of interstate water.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this subsection $75,000,000.
SEC. 8202. MODIFICATION OF PURPOSES AND
DEFINITIONS.
(a) PURPOSES.—Section 1201 of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) to protect, mitigate, and enhance fish
and wildlife and the recovery and mainte-
nance of self-sustaining harvestable popu-
lations of fish and other aquatic life, both
anadromous and resident species, throughout
their historic distribution range in the Yak-
ima Basin through—
‘‘(A) improved water management and the
constructions of fish passage at storage and
diversion dams, as authorized under the Hoo-
ver Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.);
‘‘(B) improved instream flows and water
supplies;
‘‘(C) improved water quality, watershed,
and ecosystem function;
‘‘(D) protection, creation, and enhance-
ment of wetlands; and
‘‘(E) other appropriate means of habitat
improvement;’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use purposes, especially during drought
years, including reducing the frequency and
severity of water supply shortages for pro-
ratable irrigation entities’’ before the semi-
colon at the end;
(3) by striking paragraph (4);
(4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4);
(5) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) to authorize the Secretary to make
water available for purchase or lease for
meeting municipal, industrial, and domestic
water supply purposes;’’;
(6) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6)
as paragraphs (6) and (8), respectively;
(7) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as re-
designated by paragraph (4)) the following:
‘‘(5) to realize sufficient water savings
from implementing the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, so that not less than 85,000 acre feet of
water savings are achieved by implementing
the initial development phase of the Inte-
grated Plan pursuant to section 8201(b)(1) of
the Natural Resources Management Act, in
addition to the 165,000 acre-feet of water sav-
ings targeted through the Basin Conserva-
tion Program, as authorized on October 31,
1994;’’;
(8) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by
paragraph (6))—
(A) by inserting ‘‘an increase in’’ before
‘‘voluntary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(9) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(7) to encourage an increase in the use of,
and reduce the barriers to, water transfers,
leasing, markets, and other voluntary trans-
actions among public and private entities to
enhance water management in the Yakima
River basin;’’;
(10) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated),
by striking the period at the end and insert-
ing ‘‘; and’’; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1260 February 12, 2019
‘‘(9) to improve the resilience of the eco-
systems, economies, and communities in the
Yakima River basin facing drought, hydro-
logic changes, and other related changes and
variability in natural and human systems,
for the benefit of the people, fish, and wild-
life of the region.’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 1202 of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8),
(9), (10), (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs
(8), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (15), (17), and (18),
respectively;
(2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) DESIGNATED FEDERAL OFFICIAL.—The
term ‘designated Federal official’ means the
Commissioner of Reclamation (or a des-
ignee), acting pursuant to the charter of the
Conservation Advisory Group.
‘‘(7) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘Inte-
grated Plan’ has the meaning given the term
in section 8201(a) of the Natural Resources
Management Act, to be carried out in co-
operation with, and in addition to, activities
of the State of Washington and the Yakama
Nation.’’;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as re-
designated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(9) MUNICIPAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND DOMESTIC
WATER SUPPLY AND USE.—The term ‘munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use’ means the supply and use of water
for—
‘‘(A) domestic consumption (whether urban
or rural);
‘‘(B) maintenance and protection of public
health and safety;
‘‘(C) manufacture, fabrication, processing,
assembly, or other production of a good or
commodity;
‘‘(D) production of energy;
‘‘(E) fish hatcheries; or
‘‘(F) water conservation activities relating
to a use described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E).’’; and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (15) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(16) YAKIMA ENHANCEMENT PROJECT; YAK-
IMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCEMENT
PROJECT.—The terms ‘Yakima Enhancement
Project’ and ‘Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project’ mean the Yakima River
basin water enhancement project authorized
by Congress pursuant to this Act and other
Acts (including Public Law 96–162 (93 Stat.
1241), section 109 of Public Law 98–381 (16
U.S.C. 839b note; 98 Stat. 1340), Public Law
105–62 (111 Stat. 1320), and Public Law 106–372
(114 Stat. 1425)) to promote water conserva-
tion, water supply, habitat, and stream en-
hancement improvements in the Yakima
River basin.’’.
SEC. 8203. YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER CON-
SERVATION PROGRAM.
Section 1203 of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4551) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘title’’ and inserting ‘‘section’’; and
(ii) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘within 5 years of the date of enactment of
this Act’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘irriga-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘the number of irrigated
acres’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(D), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
comma at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘De-
partment of Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington, and’’ and inserting ‘‘Department of
Fish and Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington.’’; and
(iv) by striking subparagraph (G);
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(C), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘,
and’’ at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) provide recommendations to advance
the purposes and programs of the Yakima
Enhancement Project, including the Inte-
grated Plan.’’; and
(C) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED FEDERAL OF-
FICIAL.—The designated Federal official
may—
‘‘(A) arrange and provide logistical support
for meetings of the Conservation Advisory
Group;
‘‘(B) use a facilitator to serve as a moder-
ator for meetings of the Conservation Advi-
sory Group or provide additional logistical
support; and
‘‘(C) grant any request for a facilitator by
any member of the Conservation Advisory
Group.’’;
(3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(4) PAYMENT OF LOCAL SHARE BY STATE OR
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The State or the Fed-
eral Government may fund not more than
the 17.5-percent local share of the costs of
the Basin Conservation Program in exchange
for the long-term use of conserved water,
subject to the requirement that the funding
by the Federal Government of the local
share of the costs shall provide a quantifi-
able public benefit in meeting Federal re-
sponsibilities in the Yakima River basin and
the purposes of this title.
‘‘(B) USE OF CONSERVED WATER.—The Yak-
ima Project Manager may use water result-
ing from conservation measures taken under
this title, in addition to water that the Bu-
reau of Reclamation may acquire from any
willing seller through purchase, donation, or
lease, for water management uses pursuant
to this title.’’;
(4) in subsection (e), by striking the first
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘To
participate in the Basin Conservation Pro-
gram, as described in subsection (b), an enti-
ty shall submit to the Secretary a proposed
water conservation plan.’’;
(5) in subsection (i)(3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘purchase or lease’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘purchase,
lease, or management’’; and
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘made immediately upon availability’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘Committee’’ and
inserting ‘‘continued as needed to provide
water to be used by the Yakima Project
Manager as recommended by the System Op-
erations Advisory Committee and the Con-
servation Advisory Group’’; and
(6) in subsection (j)(4), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘initial acquisition’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘flushing flows’’ and
inserting ‘‘acquisition of water from willing
sellers or lessors specifically to provide im-
proved instream flows for anadromous and
resident fish and other aquatic life, including
pulse flows to facilitate outward migration
of anadromous fish’’.
SEC. 8204. YAKIMA BASIN WATER PROJECTS, OP-
ERATIONS, AND AUTHORIZATIONS.
(a) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA NATION.—
Section 1204(g) of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection designation
and heading and all that follows through
paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(g) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA INDIAN NA-
TION TO YAKAMA NATION.—
‘‘(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Confederated
Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Na-
tion shall be known and designated as the
‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘deemed to
be a reference to the ‘Confederated Tribes
and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation’.’’
and inserting ‘‘deemed to be a reference to
the ‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’.
(b) OPERATION OF YAKIMA BASIN
PROJECTS.—Section 1205 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘additional’’ after ‘‘se-
cure’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘flushing’’ and inserting
‘‘pulse’’; and
(III) by striking ‘‘uses’’ and inserting
‘‘uses, in addition to the quantity of water
provided under the treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause
(ii); and
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated) by in-
serting ‘‘and water rights mandated’’ after
‘‘goals’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i), in the first sen-
tence, by inserting ‘‘in proportion to the
funding received’’ after ‘‘Program’’;
(2) in subsection (b), in the second sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘instream flows for use by
the Yakima Project Manager as flushing
flows or as otherwise’’ and inserting ‘‘fishery
purposes, as’’; and
(3) in subsection (e), by striking paragraph
(1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Additional purposes of
the Yakima Project shall be any of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) To recover and maintain self-sus-
taining harvestable populations of native
fish, both anadromous and resident species,
throughout their historic distribution range
in the Yakima River basin.
‘‘(B) To protect, mitigate, and enhance
aquatic life and wildlife.
‘‘(C) Recreation.
‘‘(D) Municipal, industrial, and domestic
use.’’.
(c) ENHANCEMENT OF WATER SUPPLIES FOR
YAKIMA BASIN TRIBUTARIES.—Section 1207 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4560) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘SUPPLIES’’ and inserting ‘‘MANAGEMENT’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘supplies’’ and inserting ‘‘man-
agement’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and
water supply entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘that
choose not to participate in, or opt out of,
tributary enhancement projects pursuant to
this section’’ after ‘‘water right owners’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘non-
participating’’ before ‘‘tributary water
users’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘(but not lim-
ited to)—’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, following
consultation with the State of Washington,
tributary water right owners, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1261
February 12, 2019
Yakama Nation, and on agreement of appro-
priate water right owners, is authorized to
conduct studies to evaluate measures to fur-
ther Yakima Project purposes on tributaries
to the Yakima River. Enhancement pro-
grams that use measures authorized by this
subsection may be investigated and imple-
mented by the Secretary in tributaries to
the Yakima River, including Taneum Creek,
other areas, or tributary basins that cur-
rently or could potentially be provided sup-
plemental or transfer water by entities, such
as the Kittitas Reclamation District or the
Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, subject
to the condition that activities may com-
mence on completion of applicable and re-
quired feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development, as appropriate. Meas-
ures to evaluate include—’’;
(ii) by indenting subparagraphs (A)
through (F) appropriately;
(iii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting be-
fore the semicolon at the end the following:
‘‘, including irrigation efficiency improve-
ments (in coordination with programs of the
Department of Agriculture), consolidation of
diversions or administration, and diversion
scheduling or coordination’’;
(iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (C)
through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through
(H), respectively;
(v) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) improvements in irrigation system
management or delivery facilities within the
Yakima River basin when those improve-
ments allow for increased irrigation system
conveyance and corresponding reduction in
diversion from tributaries or flow enhance-
ments to tributaries through direct flow sup-
plementation or groundwater recharge;
‘‘(D) improvements of irrigation system
management or delivery facilities to reduce
or eliminate excessively high flows caused
by the use of natural streams for conveyance
or irrigation water or return water;’’;
(vi) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated
by clause (iv)), by striking ‘‘ground water’’
and inserting ‘‘groundwater recharge and’’;
(vii) in subparagraph (G) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘or transfer’’ after ‘‘pur-
chase’’; and
(viii) in subparagraph (H) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘stream processes and’’
before ‘‘stream habitats’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘the Taneum Creek study’’
and inserting ‘‘studies under this sub-
section’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘and economic’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, infrastructure, economic, and land
use’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) any related studies already underway
or undertaken.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), in the first sentence,
by inserting ‘‘of each tributary or group of
tributaries’’ after ‘‘study’’;
(4) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘AND NONSURFACE STORAGE’’ after ‘‘NON-
STORAGE’’; and
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘and nonsurface storage’’ after
‘‘nonstorage’’;
(5) by striking subsection (d);
(6) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (d); and
(7) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) (as so
redesignated)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and implementation’’
after ‘‘investigation’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘other’’ before ‘‘Yakima
River’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘and other water supply
entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence.
(d) CHANDLER PUMPING PLANT AND POWER-
PLANT-OPERATIONS AT PROSSER DIVERSION
DAM.—Section 1208(d) of Public Law 103–434
(108 Stat. 4562; 114 Stat. 1425) is amended by
inserting ‘‘negatively’’ before ‘‘affected’’.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
SEC. 8301. CONVEYANCE OF MAINTENANCE COM-
PLEX AND DISTRICT OFFICE OF THE
ARBUCKLE PROJECT, OKLAHOMA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘Agreement’’
means the agreement entitled ‘‘Agreement
between the United States and the Arbuckle
Master Conservancy District for Transfer-
ring Title to the Federally Owned Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office to the Ar-
buckle Master Conservancy District’’ and
numbered 14AG640141.
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Arbuckle Master Conservancy District,
located in Murray County, Oklahoma.
(3) DISTRICT OFFICE.—The term ‘‘District
Office’’ means—
(A) the headquarters building located at
2440 East Main, Davis, Oklahoma; and
(B) the approximately 0.83 acres of land de-
scribed in the Agreement.
(4) MAINTENANCE COMPLEX.—The term
‘‘Maintenance Complex’’ means the care-
taker’s residence, shop buildings, and any
appurtenances located on the land described
in the Agreement comprising approximately
2 acres.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO DISTRICT.—As soon as
practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the
District, all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Maintenance
Complex and District Office, Arbuckle
Project, Oklahoma, consistent with the
terms and conditions of the Agreement.
(c) LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance to the District of the Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office under this
section, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the Maintenance Complex
or District Office, except for damages caused
by acts of negligence committed by the
United States or by an employee or agent of
the United States prior to the date of con-
veyance.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion increases the liability of the United
States beyond the liability provided in chap-
ter 171 of title 28, United States Code (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims
Act’’), on the date of enactment of this Act.
(d) BENEFITS.—After the conveyance of the
Maintenance Complex and District Office to
the District under this section—
(1) the Maintenance Complex and District
Office shall not be considered to be a part of
a Federal reclamation project; and
(2) the District shall not be eligible to re-
ceive any benefits with respect to any facil-
ity comprising that Maintenance Complex
and District Office, other than benefits that
would be available to a similarly situated
person with respect to a facility that is not
part of a Federal reclamation project.
(e) COMMUNICATION.—If the Secretary has
not completed the conveyance required
under subsection (b) by the date that is 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a let-
ter with sufficient detail that—
(1) explains the reasons the conveyance has
not been completed; and
(2) specifies the date by which the convey-
ance will be completed.
SEC. 8302. CONTRA COSTA CANAL TRANSFER.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘‘acquired
land’’ means land in Federal ownership and
land over which the Federal Government
holds an interest for the purpose of the con-
struction and operation of the Contra Costa
Canal, including land under the jurisdiction
of—
(A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
(B) the Western Area Power Administra-
tion; and
(C) the Department of Defense in the case
of the Clayton Canal diversion traversing the
Concord Naval Weapons Station.
(2) CONTRA COSTA CANAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ means the Contra Costa Canal Unit
of the Central Valley Project, which exclu-
sively serves the Contra Costa Water Dis-
trict in an urban area of Contra Costa Coun-
ty, California.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ includes pipelines, conduits, pumping
plants, aqueducts, laterals, water storage
and regulatory facilities, electric sub-
stations, related works and improvements,
and all interests in land associated with the
Contra Costa Canal Unit of the Central Val-
ley Project in existence on the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(C) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ does not include the Rock Slough
fish screen facility.
(3) CONTRA COSTA CANAL AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Contra Costa Canal Agreement’’
means an agreement between the District
and the Bureau of Reclamation to determine
the legal, institutional, and financial terms
surrounding the transfer of the Contra Costa
Canal, including compensation to the rec-
lamation fund established by the first sec-
tion of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388,
chapter 1093), equal to the net present value
of miscellaneous revenues that the United
States would otherwise derive over the 10
years following the date of enactment of this
Act from the eligible land and facilities to be
transferred, as governed by reclamation law
and policy and the contracts.
(4) CONTRACTS.—The term ‘‘contracts’’
means the existing water service contract
between the District and the United States,
Contract No. 175r–3401A–LTR1 (2005), Con-
tract No. 14–06–200–6072A (1972, as amended),
and any other contract or land permit in-
volving the United States, the District, and
Contra Costa Canal.
(5) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Contra Costa Water District, a political
subdivision of the State of California.
(6) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ means the fish screen
facility at the Rock Slough intake to the
Contra Costa Canal.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ includes the screen
structure, rake cleaning system, and acces-
sory structures integral to the screen func-
tion of the Rock Slough fish screen facility,
as required under the Central Valley Project
Improvement Act (Public Law 102–575; 106
Stat. 4706).
(7) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY
TITLE TRANSFER AGREEMENT.—The term
‘‘Rock Slough fish screen facility title trans-
fer agreement’’ means an agreement between
the District and the Bureau of Reclamation
to—
(A) determine the legal, institutional, and
financial terms surrounding the transfer of
the Rock Slough fish screen facility; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1262 February 12, 2019
(B) ensure the continued safe and reliable
operations of the Rock Slough fish screen fa-
cility.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF LAND AND FACILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, in
consideration for the District assuming from
the United States all liability for the admin-
istration, operation, maintenance, and re-
placement of the Contra Costa Canal, con-
sistent with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Contra Costa Canal Agreement
and subject to valid existing rights and ex-
isting recreation agreements between the
Bureau of Reclamation and the East Bay Re-
gional Park District for Contra Loma Re-
gional Park and other local agencies within
the Contra Costa Canal, the Secretary shall
offer to convey and assign to the District—
(A) all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to—
(i) the Contra Costa Canal; and
(ii) the acquired land; and
(B) all interests reserved and developed as
of the date of enactment of this Act for the
Contra Costa Canal in the acquired land, in-
cluding existing recreation agreements be-
tween the Bureau of Reclamation and the
East Bay Regional Park District for Contra
Loma Regional Park and other local agen-
cies within the Contra Costa Canal.
(2) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey and assign to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the Rock Slough fish screen facility pursu-
ant to the Rock Slough fish screen facility
title transfer agreement.
(B) COOPERATION.—Not later than 180 days
after the conveyance of the Contra Costa
Canal, the Secretary and the District shall
enter into good faith negotiations to accom-
plish the conveyance and assignment under
subparagraph (A).
(3) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—The District shall
pay to the Secretary any administrative and
real estate transfer costs incurred by the
Secretary in carrying out the conveyances
and assignments under paragraphs (1) and
(2), including the cost of any boundary sur-
vey, title search, cadastral survey, appraisal,
and other real estate transaction required
for the conveyances and assignments.
(4) COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL
LAWS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Before carrying out the
conveyances and assignments under para-
graphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall comply
with all applicable requirements under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(iii) any other law applicable to the Contra
Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies or alters any obligations under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(c) RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING CENTRAL
VALLEY PROJECT CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects—
(A) the application of the reclamation laws
to water delivered to the District pursuant
to any contract with the Secretary; or
(B) subject to paragraph (2), the contracts.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTS.—The Sec-
retary and the District may modify the con-
tracts as necessary to comply with this sec-
tion.
(3) LIABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the United States shall
not be liable for damages arising out of any
act, omission, or occurrence relating to the
Contra Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The United States shall
continue to be liable for damages caused by
acts of negligence committed by the United
States or by any employee or agent of the
United States before the date of the convey-
ance and assignment under subsection (b)(1),
consistent with chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Fed-
eral Tort Claims Act’’).
(C) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section
increases the liability of the United States
beyond the liability provided under chapter
171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
(d) REPORT.—If the conveyance and assign-
ment authorized by subsection (b)(1) is not
completed by the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report
that—
(1) describes the status of the conveyance
and assignment;
(2) describes any obstacles to completing
the conveyance and assignment; and
(3) specifies an anticipated date for com-
pletion of the conveyance and assignment.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
SEC. 8401. EXTENSION OF EQUUS BEDS DIVISION
OF THE WICHITA PROJECT.
Section 10(h) of Public Law 86–787 (74 Stat.
1026; 120 Stat. 1474) is amended by striking
‘‘10 years’’ and inserting ‘‘20 years’’.
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
SEC. 8501. WATERSMART.
Section 9504 of the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 10364) is
amended in subsection (a)—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘within the States’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘within—
‘‘(i) the States’’;
(B) in clause (i) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) the State of Alaska; or
‘‘(iii) the State of Hawaii; and’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)(B)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as
subclauses (I) and (II), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(B) in the matter preceding subclause (I)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘In car-
rying’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), in carrying’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) INDIAN TRIBES.—In the case of an eligi-
ble applicant that is an Indian tribe, in car-
rying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
not provide a grant, or enter into an agree-
ment, for an improvement to conserve irriga-
tion water unless the Indian tribe agrees
not—
‘‘(I) to use any associated water savings to
increase the total irrigated acreage more
than the water right of that Indian tribe, as
determined by—
‘‘(aa) a court decree;
‘‘(bb) a settlement;
‘‘(cc) a law; or
‘‘(dd) any combination of the authorities
described in items (aa) through (cc); or
‘‘(II) to otherwise increase the consump-
tive use of water more than the water right
of the Indian tribe described in subclause
(I).’’.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
SEC. 8601. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ASSET.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘asset’’ means
any of the following assets that are used to
achieve the mission of the Bureau to man-
age, develop, and protect water and related
resources in an environmentally and eco-
nomically sound manner in the interest of
the people of the United States:
(i) Capitalized facilities, buildings, struc-
tures, project features, power production
equipment, recreation facilities, or quarters.
(ii) Capitalized and noncapitalized heavy
equipment and other installed equipment.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘asset’’ includes
assets described in subparagraph (A) that are
considered to be mission critical.
(2) ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT.—The term
‘‘Asset Management Report’’ means—
(A) the annual plan prepared by the Bureau
known as the ‘‘Asset Management Plan’’;
and
(B) any publicly available information re-
lating to the plan described in subparagraph
(A) that summarizes the efforts of the Bu-
reau to evaluate and manage infrastructure
assets of the Bureau.
(3) MAJOR REPAIR AND REHABILITATION
NEED.—The term ‘‘major repair and rehabili-
tation need’’ means major nonrecurring
maintenance at a Reclamation facility, in-
cluding maintenance related to the safety of
dams, extraordinary maintenance of dams,
deferred major maintenance activities, and
all other significant repairs and extraor-
dinary maintenance.
SEC. 8602. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR RESERVED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress an Asset
Management Report that—
(1) describes the efforts of the Bureau—
(A) to maintain in a reliable manner all re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(B) to standardize and streamline data re-
porting and processes across regions and
areas for the purpose of maintaining re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(2) expands on the information otherwise
provided in an Asset Management Report, in
accordance with subsection (b).
(b) INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE NEEDS
ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Asset Management
Report submitted under subsection (a) shall
include—
(A) a detailed assessment of major repair
and rehabilitation needs for all reserved
works at all Reclamation projects; and
(B) to the maximum extent practicable, an
itemized list of major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs of individual Reclamation facili-
ties at each Reclamation project.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the itemized list of major repair
and rehabilitation needs under paragraph
(1)(B) shall include—
(A) a budget level cost estimate of the ap-
propriations needed to complete each item;
and
(B) an assignment of a categorical rating
for each item, consistent with paragraph (3).
(3) RATING REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The system for assigning
ratings under paragraph (2)(B) shall be—
(i) consistent with existing uniform cat-
egorization systems to inform the annual
budget process and agency requirements; and
(ii) subject to the guidance and instruc-
tions issued under subparagraph (B).
(B) GUIDANCE.—As soon as practicable after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall issue guidance that describes
the applicability of the rating system appli-
cable under paragraph (2)(B) to Reclamation
facilities.
(4) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Except as pro-
vided in paragraph (5), the Secretary shall
make publicly available, including on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1263
February 12, 2019
internet, the Asset Management Report re-
quired under subsection (a).
(5) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Secretary may
exclude from the public version of the Asset
Management Report made available under
paragraph (4) any information that the Sec-
retary identifies as sensitive or classified,
but shall make available to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives a version of
the report containing the sensitive or classi-
fied information.
(c) UPDATES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date on which the Asset Management Re-
port is submitted under subsection (a) and
biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall up-
date the Asset Management Report, subject
to the requirements of section 8603(b)(2).
(d) CONSULTATION.—To the extent that
such consultation would assist the Secretary
in preparing the Asset Management Report
under subsection (a) and updates to the
Asset Management Report under subsection
(c), the Secretary shall consult with—
(1) the Secretary of the Army (acting
through the Chief of Engineers); and
(2) water and power contractors.
SEC. 8603. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR TRANSFERRED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate with the non-Federal entities re-
sponsible for the operation and maintenance
of transferred works in developing reporting
requirements for Asset Management Reports
with respect to major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs for transferred works that are
similar to the reporting requirements de-
scribed in section 8602(b).
(b) GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After considering input
from water and power contractors of the Bu-
reau, the Secretary shall develop and imple-
ment a rating system for transferred works
that incorporates, to the maximum extent
practicable, the rating system for major re-
pair and rehabilitation needs for reserved
works developed under section 8602(b)(3).
(2) UPDATES.—The ratings system devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall be included in
the updated Asset Management Reports
under section 8602(c).
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 9001. EVERY KID OUTDOORS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FEDERAL LAND AND WATERS.—The term
‘‘Federal land and waters’’ means any Fed-
eral land or body of water under the jurisdic-
tion of any of the Secretaries to which the
public has access.
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Every Kid Outdoors program established
under subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, acting through—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service;
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(iv) the Commissioner of Reclamation;
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service;
(C) the Secretary of Commerce, acting
through the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
and
(D) the Secretary of the Army, acting
through the Assistant Secretary of the Army
for Civil Works.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other
territory or possession of the United States.
(5) STUDENT OR STUDENTS.—The term ‘‘stu-
dent’’ or ‘‘students’’ means any fourth grader
or home-schooled learner 10 years of age re-
siding in the United States, including any
territory or possession of the United States.
(b) EVERY KID OUTDOORS PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretaries shall
jointly establish a program, to be known as
the ‘‘Every Kid Outdoors program’’, to pro-
vide free access to Federal land and waters
for students and accompanying individuals
in accordance with this subsection.
(2) ANNUAL PASSES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—At the request of a stu-
dent, the Secretaries shall issue a pass to the
student, which allows access to Federal
lands and waters for which access is subject
to an entrance, standard amenity, or day use
fee, free of charge for the student and—
(i) in the case of a per-vehicle fee area—
(I) any passengers accompanying the stu-
dent in a private, noncommercial vehicle; or
(II) not more than three adults accom-
panying the student on bicycles; or
(ii) in the case of a per-person fee area, not
more than three adults accompanying the
student.
(B) TERM.—A pass described in subpara-
graph (A) shall be effective during the period
beginning on September 1 and ending on Au-
gust 31 of the following year.
(C) PRESENCE OF A STUDENT IN GRADE FOUR
REQUIRED.—A pass described in subparagraph
(A) shall be effective only if the student to
which the pass was issued is present at the
point of entry to the applicable Federal land
or water.
(3) OTHER ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the
program, the Secretaries—
(A) may collaborate with State Park sys-
tems that opt to implement a complemen-
tary Every Kid Outdoors State park pass;
(B) may coordinate with the Secretary of
Education to implement the program;
(C) shall maintain a publicly available
website with information about the program;
(D) may provide visitor services for the
program; and
(E) may support approved partners of the
Federal land and waters by providing the
partners with opportunities to participate in
the program.
(4) REPORTS.—The Secretary, in coordina-
tion with each Secretary described in sub-
paragraphs (B) through (D) of subsection
(a)(3), shall prepare a comprehensive report
to Congress each year describing—
(A) the implementation of the program;
(B) the number and geographical distribu-
tion of students who participated in the pro-
gram; and
(C) the number of passes described in para-
graph (2)(A) that were distributed.
(5) SUNSET.—The authorities provided in
this section, including the reporting require-
ment, shall expire on the date that is 7 years
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 9002. GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND RE-
COVERY ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELIGIBLE.—The term ‘‘eligible’’, with re-
spect to an organization or individual, means
that the organization or individual, respec-
tively, is—
(A) acting in a not-for-profit capacity; and
(B) composed entirely of members who, at
the time of the good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission, have attained the age of
majority under the law of the State where
the mission takes place.
(2) GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH-AND-RECOVERY
MISSION.—The term ‘‘good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission’’ means a search con-
ducted by an eligible organization or indi-
vidual for 1 or more missing individuals be-
lieved to be deceased at the time that the
search is initiated.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary or the Secretary of Ag-
riculture, as applicable.
(b) PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary shall de-
velop and implement a process to expedite
access to Federal land under the administra-
tive jurisdiction of the Secretary for eligible
organizations and individuals to request ac-
cess to Federal land to conduct good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery missions.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—The process developed and
implemented under this subsection shall in-
clude provisions to clarify that—
(A) an eligible organization or individual
granted access under this section—
(i) shall be acting for private purposes; and
(ii) shall not be considered to be a Federal
volunteer;
(B) an eligible organization or individual
conducting a good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission under this section shall not
be considered to be a volunteer under section
102301(c) of title 54, United States Code;
(C) chapter 171 of title 28, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’), shall not apply to an eligible
organization or individual carrying out a pri-
vately requested good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission under this section; and
(D) chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code
(commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Employ-
ees Compensation Act’’), shall not apply to
an eligible organization or individual con-
ducting a good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission under this section, and the con-
duct of the good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission shall not constitute civilian
employment.
(c) RELEASE OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FROM LIABILITY.—The Secretary shall not re-
quire an eligible organization or individual
to have liability insurance as a condition of
accessing Federal land under this section, if
the eligible organization or individual—
(1) acknowledges and consents, in writing,
to the provisions described in subparagraphs
(A) through (D) of subsection (b)(2); and
(2) signs a waiver releasing the Federal
Government from all liability relating to the
access granted under this section and agrees
to indemnify and hold harmless the United
States from any claims or lawsuits arising
from any conduct by the eligible organiza-
tion or individual on Federal land.
(d) APPROVAL AND DENIAL OF REQUESTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall notify
an eligible organization or individual of the
approval or denial of a request by the eligi-
ble organization or individual to carry out a
good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission
under this section by not later than 48 hours
after the request is made.
(2) DENIALS.—If the Secretary denies a re-
quest from an eligible organization or indi-
vidual to carry out a good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission under this section, the
Secretary shall notify the eligible organiza-
tion or individual of—
(A) the reason for the denial of the request;
and
(B) any actions that the eligible organiza-
tion or individual can take to meet the re-
quirements for the request to be approved.
(e) PARTNERSHIPS.—Each Secretary shall
develop search-and-recovery-focused partner-
ships with search-and-recovery organiza-
tions—
(1) to coordinate good Samaritan search-
and-recovery missions on Federal land under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary; and
(2) to expedite and accelerate good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery mission efforts for
missing individuals on Federal land under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1264 February 12, 2019
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries shall submit to Congress a joint report
describing—
(1) plans to develop partnerships described
in subsection (e)(1); and
(2) efforts carried out to expedite and ac-
celerate good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission efforts for missing individuals on
Federal land under the administrative juris-
diction of each Secretary pursuant to sub-
section (e)(2).
SEC. 9003. 21ST CENTURY CONSERVATION SERV-
ICE CORPS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 203 of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1722) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘under sec-
tion 204’’ and inserting ‘‘by section 204(a)(1)’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(13) as paragraphs (9) through (14), respec-
tively;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ has the meaning given the
term in section 102 of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ does not include—
‘‘(i) an institution described in section
101(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(b)); or
‘‘(ii) an institution outside the United
States, as described in section 102(a)(1)(C) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002(a)(1)(C)).’’;
(4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘, as follows’’ and inserting
‘‘and other conservation and restoration ini-
tiatives, as follows’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) To protect, restore, or enhance ma-
rine, estuarine, riverine, and coastal habitat
ecosystem components—
‘‘(i) to promote the recovery of threatened
species, endangered species, and managed
fisheries;
‘‘(ii) to restore fisheries, protected re-
sources, and habitats impacted by oil and
chemical spills and natural disasters; or
‘‘(iii) to enhance the resilience of coastal
ecosystems, communities, and economies
through habitat conservation.’’;
(5) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘individuals
between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive,’’ and
inserting ‘‘individuals between the ages of 16
and 30, inclusive, or veterans age 35 or
younger’’;
(6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) with respect to the National Marine
Sanctuary System, coral reefs, and other
coastal, estuarine, and marine habitats, and
other land and facilities administered by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, the Secretary of Commerce.’’; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VETERAN.—The term ‘veteran’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.’’.
(b) PUBLIC LANDS CORPS PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 204 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1723) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LANDS
CORPS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Department of the Interior, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Department of
Commerce a corps, to be known as the ‘Pub-
lic Lands Corps’.
‘‘(2) NO EFFECT ON OTHER AGENCIES.—Noth-
ing in this subsection precludes the estab-
lishment of a public lands corps by the head
of a Federal department or agency other
than a department described in paragraph
(1), in accordance with this Act.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘indi-
viduals between the ages of 16 and 30, inclu-
sive,’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals between the
ages of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age
35 or younger’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘section 137(b) of the National and Commu-
nity Service Act of 1990’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of section
137(a) of the National and Community Serv-
ice Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591(a))’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section au-
thorizes the use of the Public Lands Corps
for projects on or impacting real property
owned by, operated by, or within the cus-
tody, control, or administrative jurisdiction
of the Administrator of General Services
without the express permission of the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.’’.
(c) TRANSPORTATION.—Section 205 of the
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
1724) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) TRANSPORTATION.—The Secretary may
provide to Corps participants who reside in
their own homes transportation to and from
appropriate conservation project sites.’’.
(d) RESOURCE ASSISTANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 206(a) of the Pub-
lic Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725(a))
is amended by striking the first sentence and
inserting the following: ‘‘The Secretary may
provide individual placements of resource as-
sistants to carry out research or resource
protection activities on behalf of the Sec-
retary.’’.
(2) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—Section 121(a)
of the Department of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2012 (16 U.S.C. 1725a), is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’
and inserting ‘‘Secretary (as defined in sec-
tion 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1722))’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraph (2)’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘with a land managing
agency of the Department of the Interior’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘with a
land managing agency’’ and inserting ‘‘with
the Secretary (as so defined)’’.
(e) COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYMENT STAND-
ARDS.—Section 207 of the Public Lands Corps
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726) is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and in-
serting ‘‘COMPENSATION AND TERMS OF SERV-
ICE’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) EDUCATIONAL CREDIT.—The Secretary
may provide a Corps participant with an edu-
cational credit that may be applied toward a
program of postsecondary education at an
institution of higher education that agrees
to award the credit for participation in the
Corps.’’;
(4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Each participant’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participant’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—With re-
spect to the Indian Youth Service Corps es-
tablished under section 210, the Secretary
shall establish the term of service of partici-
pants in consultation with the affected In-
dian tribe.’’;
(5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively,
and indenting the subparagraphs appro-
priately;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) TIME-LIMITED APPOINTMENT.—For pur-
poses of section 9602 of title 5, United States
Code, a former member of the Corps hired by
the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) for a
time-limited appointment shall be consid-
ered to be appointed initially under open,
competitive examination.’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY TO QUALIFIED YOUTH OR
CONSERVATION CORPS.—The hiring and com-
pensation standards described in this section
shall apply to any individual participating in
an appropriate conservation project through
a qualified youth or conservation corps, in-
cluding an individual placed through a con-
tract or cooperative agreement, as approved
by the Secretary.’’.
(f) REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.—
Title II of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 209 through
211 as sections 211 through 213, respectively;
(2) by inserting after section 208 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 209. REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.
‘‘(a) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Natural Re-
sources Management Act, and annually
thereafter, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation for National and Community
Service, in coordination with the Secre-
taries, shall submit to Congress a report that
includes data on the Corps, including—
‘‘(1) the number of participants enrolled in
the Corps and the length of the term of serv-
ice for each participant;
‘‘(2) the projects carried out by Corps par-
ticipants, categorized by type of project and
Federal agency;
‘‘(3) the total amount and sources of fund-
ing provided for the service of participants;
‘‘(4) the type of service performed by par-
ticipants and the impact and accomplish-
ments of the service; and
‘‘(5) any other similar data determined to
be appropriate by the Chief Executive Officer
of the Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service or the Secretaries.
‘‘(b) DATA.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, and annually thereafter,
the Secretaries shall submit to the Chief Ex-
ecutive Officer of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service the data de-
scribed in subsection (a).
‘‘(c) DATA COLLECTION.—The Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service may coordinate
with qualified youth or conservation corps to
improve the collection of the required data
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(d) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries shall, to
the maximum extent practicable, coordinate
with each other to carry out activities au-
thorized under this Act, including—
‘‘(A) the data collection and reporting re-
quirements of this section; and
‘‘(B) implementing and issuing guidance on
eligibility for noncompetitive hiring status
under section 207(d).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1265
February 12, 2019
‘‘(2) DESIGNATION OF COORDINATORS.—The
Secretary shall designate a coordinator to
coordinate and serve as the primary point of
contact for any activity of the Corps carried
out by the Secretary.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c) of section 212 (as so re-
designated), by striking ‘‘211’’ and inserting
‘‘213’’.
(g) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—Title II
of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) (as amended by sub-
section (f)) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 209 the following:
‘‘SEC. 210. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Public Lands Corps a program to
be known as the ‘Indian Youth Service
Corps’ that—
‘‘(1) enrolls participants between the ages
of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age 35 or
younger, a majority of whom are Indians;
‘‘(2) is established pursuant to an agree-
ment between an Indian tribe and a qualified
youth or conservation corps for the benefit
of the members of the Indian tribe; and
‘‘(3) carries out appropriate conservation
projects on eligible service land.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary may enter into
cooperative agreements with Indian tribes
and qualified youth or conservation corps for
the establishment and administration of the
Indian Youth Service Corps.
‘‘(c) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary of
the Interior, in consultation with Indian
tribes, shall issue guidelines for the manage-
ment of the Indian Youth Service Corps, in
accordance with this Act and any other ap-
plicable Federal laws.’’.
SEC. 9004. NATIONAL NORDIC MUSEUM ACT.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The Nordic Museum lo-
cated at 2655 N.W. Market Street, Seattle,
Washington, is designated as the ‘‘National
Nordic Museum’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9005. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL GEORGE
C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND LI-
BRARY.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The George C. Marshall
Museum and the George C. Marshall Re-
search Library in Lexington, Virginia, are
designated as the ‘‘National George C. Mar-
shall Museum and Library’’ (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘museum)’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9006. 21ST CENTURY RESPECT ACT.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS RE-
QUIRED.—
(1) SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.—The Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall amend section
1901.202 of title 7, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Negro or Black’’ with ‘‘Black or African
American’’;
(B) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Spanish Surname’’ with ‘‘Hispanic’’; and
(C) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATOR OF GENERAL SERVICES.—
The Administrator of General Services shall
amend section 906.2 of title 36, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Negro’’ with ‘‘Black or African American’’;
(B) replacing the definition of ‘‘Negro’’
with the definition of ‘‘Black or African
American’’ as ‘‘ an individual having origins
in any of the Black racial groups of Africa’’;
(C) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’; and
(D) replacing the references to the terms
‘‘Eskimo’’ and ‘‘Aleut’’ with ‘‘Alaska Na-
tive’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section, or the amendments required by
this section, shall be construed to affect Fed-
eral law, except with respect to the use of
terms by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Administrator of General Services, re-
spectively, to the regulations affected by
this section.
SEC. 9007. AMERICAN WORLD WAR II HERITAGE
CITIES.
(a) DESIGNATION.—In order to recognize and
ensure the continued preservation and im-
portance of the history of the United States
involvement in World War II, each calendar
year the Secretary may designate 1 or more
cities located in 1 of the several States or a
territory of the United States as an ‘‘Amer-
ican World War II Heritage City’’. Not more
than 1 city in each State or territory may be
designated under this section.
(b) APPLICATION FOR DESIGNATION.—The
Secretary may—
(1) establish and publicize the process by
which a city may apply for designation as an
American World War II Heritage City based
on the criteria in subsection (c); and
(2) encourage cities to apply for designa-
tion as an American World War II Heritage
City.
(c) CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution or the President
of the National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion, shall make each designation under sub-
section (a) based on the following criteria:
(1) Contributions by a city and its environs
to the World War II home-front war effort,
including contributions related to—
(A) defense manufacturing, such as ships,
aircraft, uniforms, and equipment;
(B) production of foodstuffs and consumer
items for Armed Forces and home consump-
tion;
(C) war bond drives;
(D) adaptations to wartime survival;
(E) volunteer participation;
(F) civil defense preparedness;
(G) personnel serving in the Armed Forces,
their achievements, and facilities for their
rest and recreation; or
(H) the presence of Armed Forces camps,
bases, airfields, harbors, repair facilities, and
other installations within or in its environs.
(2) Achievements by a city and its environs
to preserve the heritage and legacy of the
city’s contributions to the war effort and to
preserve World War II history, including—
(A) the identification, preservation, res-
toration, and interpretation of World War II-
related structures, facilities and sites;
(B) establishment of museums, parks, and
markers;
(C) establishment of memorials to area
men who lost their lives in service;
(D) organizing groups of veterans and
home-front workers and their recognition;
(E) presentation of cultural events such as
dances, plays, and lectures;
(F) public relations outreach through the
print and electronic media, and books; and
(G) recognition and ceremonies remem-
bering wartime event anniversaries.
SEC. 9008. QUINDARO TOWNSITE NATIONAL COM-
MEMORATIVE SITE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMEMORATIVE SITE.—The term ‘‘Com-
memorative Site’’ means the Quindaro
Townsite National Commemorative Site des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Kansas.
(b) DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Quindaro Townsite in
Kansas City, Kansas, as listed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places, is des-
ignated as the ‘‘Quindaro Townsite National
Commemorative Site’’.
(2) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—The Com-
memorative Site shall not be considered to
be a unit of the National Park System.
(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the State, Kansas City, Kan-
sas, and affected subdivisions of the State,
may enter into cooperative agreements with
appropriate public or private entities, for the
purposes of—
(A) protecting historic resources at the
Commemorative Site; and
(B) providing educational and interpretive
facilities and programs at the Commemora-
tive Site for the public.
(2) TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—
The Secretary may provide technical and fi-
nancial assistance to any entity with which
the Secretary has entered into a cooperative
agreement under paragraph (1).
(d) NO EFFECT ON ACTIONS OF PROPERTY
OWNERS.—Designation of the Quindaro
Townsite as a National Commemorative Site
shall not prohibit any actions that may oth-
erwise be taken by a property owner (includ-
ing any owner of the Commemorative Site)
with respect to the property of the owner.
(e) NO EFFECT ON ADMINISTRATION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the administration
of the Commemorative Site by Kansas City,
Kansas, or the State.
SEC. 9009. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL COMEDY
CENTER IN JAMESTOWN, NEW YORK.
(a) CONGRESSIONAL RECOGNITION.—Con-
gress—
(1) recognizes that the National Comedy
Center, located in Jamestown, New York, is
the only museum of its kind that exists for
the exclusive purpose of celebrating comedy
in all its forms; and
(2) officially designates the National Com-
edy Center as the ‘‘National Comedy Center’’
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’).
(b) EFFECT OF RECOGNITION.—The National
Comedy Center recognized in this section is
not a unit of the National Park System and
the designation of the Center shall not be
construed to require or permit Federal funds
to be expended for any purpose related to the
Center.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia,
to be United States Attorney General.
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, John
Boozman, Johnny Isakson, Mike Crapo,
Pat Roberts, John Hoeven, Shelley
Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker, John
Barrasso, Joni Ernst, John Thune,
John Cornyn, Jerry Moran, Chuck
Grassley, Todd Young, Richard Burr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.010 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1266 February 12, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to
be United States Attorney, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 55,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 23 Leg.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Booker
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 55, and the nays are
44.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to
be Attorney General.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, we
are now debating the nomination of
Mr. Barr to be the Attorney General.
All I can say is if America ever need-
ed a steady hand at the Department of
Justice, it is now. Mr. Whitaker has
done a good job as interim Attorney
General, but we are looking for a new
person to bring stability, improve mo-
rale, and be a steady hand and mature
leadership at a time when our country
is very much divided.
I told President Trump, when he
mentioned Mr. Barr to me as a poten-
tial nominee: The other names are im-
pressive, but Mr. Barr stands out head
and shoulders above the others.
If you knew who the others were,
that is saying a lot.
Why not believe that? The best indi-
cation of what Mr. Barr will do as At-
torney General in the future is what he
has done in the past. He has actually
been Attorney General before. He was
approved by this body, under Bush 41,
to be the Attorney General by a voice
vote. He has been the Assistant Attor-
ney General for the Office of Legal
Counsel and the Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral. He has been the chief lawyer for
the CIA. In all of these jobs, he was
confirmed by the Senate by voice vote.
In other words, he was so well quali-
fied that nobody felt the need to vote.
Yes, he is a fine man. Let’s go ahead
and confirm him by voice vote.
Now, here we are, in 2019, and I can
say, without any doubt, that if you
think Bill Barr has been auditioning
for this job, you really haven’t paid
much attention to how this whole
thing came about.
Once the President mentioned to me
that he was considering Mr. Barr, I
asked him: Well, does he want the job?
He says he doesn’t know, but every-
body tells me he would be one of the
best picks I can make.
I said: Well, I agree with what every-
body else has told you.
I called Mr. Barr, on several occa-
sions, asking to please consider this: I
know that you are at a good time in
your life. Your children are grown. You
have made it. You have done a good
job. You have a stellar reputation, and
you have done the work of several life-
times. But having said that, seldom
can somebody in their late sixties be
able to contribute the most in their
life, and I believe this is your time to
make the biggest contribution. In
terms of what you have done for the
country, that is saying a lot. Again,
very seldom does this moment come
along where you can make the biggest
contribution to the country later in
life after having served before.
So he agreed to take the job, and we
have cloture by, I think, 55 votes. He
got voted out of committee along party
lines.
Senator Biden told me something
that stuck with me to this day: Never
question the motive of a Senator. They
got here their way. You can question
their judgment but not their motive.
When it comes to Bill Barr, I can
only tell my Democratic colleagues
that there is nobody better that I know
to recommend to you. This is as good
as it gets on our side. I was happy when
President Trump wanted to nominate
Mr. Barr. I thought of all the people he
could have chosen, and this was the
top, by far.
I say that because of the way he con-
ducted himself over decades of service
at the highest levels of government. He
is a man of the law. He loves the law.
His ethics is beyond reproach.
When it comes to Mr. Mueller’s in-
vestigation, the Barrs and the Muellers
are friends, but it will be a business re-
lationship. I can promise you this: Mr.
Barr will make sure that Mr. Mueller
can finish his job without political in-
terference. He said that, I believe that,
and that is the way this movie has to
end.
As for the memo that he wrote about
one of the theories of obstruction of
justice, related to the firing of Director
Comey, I share his legal analysis and
concern. If firing somebody that you
have the ability to fire, for almost any
reason, becomes obstruction of justice,
then anytime you fire a U.S. attorney
or assistant U.S. attorney, you are
turning it into a political football.
So as for the statute that he wrote
the memo about, his reasoning about
how you should be reluctant to use this
for an obstruction of justice case made
perfect sense to me. When he was asked
about the President’s obstruction of
justice, he said: Of course, the Presi-
dent can be charged with obstruction
of justice. If the President encourages
somebody to give false testimony, that
will be obstruction of justice. If they
tried to hide evidence from the courts
or the Congress, that would be obstruc-
tion of justice.
The question was this: Could you
bring a case based on firing somebody
who is a political appointee? He had
great reservations about that, but he
acknowledged that the President is not
above the law, and to suggest other-
wise is not really listening to what he
had to say—wanting an outcome rather
than listening to what he had to say.
About sharing the Mueller report
with the country at large, there is a
regulation on point that basically re-
quires Mr. Mueller to report to the
chairman and ranking member of the
Judiciary Committee of the House and
of the Senate about the report. He has
discretion to withhold information
that he believes should be classified.
He has to tell us—the chairman and
the ranking member—whether or not
he disagreed with Mr. Mueller’s deci-
sion in any fashion.
In other words, if Mueller wanted to
bring a charge or make an accusation,
and Barr said no, under the regulation
he would have to tell us that he actu-
ally disagreed with Mr. Mueller and
why.
As to how much he will release, we
will know when he gets the report, but
here is what I do believe. He is going to
err on the side of transparency. I am
not going to take his discretion away
from him. I trust him to make a good
decision, and his promising us to re-
lease the report before he gets it is
probably a bridge too far. For anybody
wanting the job to make a bargain
with a Senator just to get the job—that
I will turn this report over even before
I see it—is probably not the right an-
swer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.034 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1267
February 12, 2019
Here is what Mr. Barr said that real-
ly stuck with me. I am not making bar-
gains with editorial writers, with pun-
dits, or with elected political leaders
that I don’t feel are right for the De-
partment. I don’t want the job that
much. I don’t need the job in terms of
building a career. I have had a great
career. I am doing this because I think
I can provide some leadership at a time
we need some.
We will have a vote here probably to-
morrow. He is soon going to be Attor-
ney General. I can tell all my Demo-
cratic colleagues that I cannot think of
a better person to do this job at this
time in our Nation’s history. I know he
will be devoted to following the law as
the law is written. I know he will be
fair to the President, but he will pick
the rule of law over anything or any-
body, including the Senate or the
President.
He will be a shot in the arm for a De-
partment that needs a morale lift. He
is going to look at the abuses inside of
the Department. How could a FISA
warrant be issued on an American cit-
izen based on a dossier? It is a bunch of
political garbage.
As for what happened in 2016, he is
going to look at that, too, I hope. But
when it comes to Mr. Mueller, Mr.
Mueller will be allowed to do his job,
and there will come a day when his re-
port is completed. I am confident that
Mr. Barr will share it with the public
to the fullest extent possible. I have
every confidence he will.
To the people who are working at the
Department of Justice, in a day or two,
you are going to have a new leader. I
think you should be excited about the
reforms that will be coming. I think
you should be excited about working
for this good man. He has dedicated his
life to your causes—a Department of
Justice that is impartial, that goes
after the bad guys, and that makes
sure that the policies in place build up
the country.
I think Mr. Barr represents that way
of doing business in Washington that
has sort of been lost. He is a ‘‘hand-
shake and phone call’’ kind of guy. He
has been up here for a very, very long
time. He has earned a lot of accolades
in the legal profession.
Some of the people who came forward
to testify on his behalf definitely have
a different legal philosophy and polit-
ical philosophy than Mr. Barr, but they
all said, without hesitation, that he is
one of the finest people they have ever
known and he will be a great Attorney
General.
I want to thank President Trump for
nominating Mr. Barr. I don’t think he
could have done a better job in picking
someone than Mr. Barr. I want to let
the people at the Department of Jus-
tice know that help is on the way. I
want the American people to under-
stand that this man has a record that
should comfort you—that with Bill
Barr, you know what you are getting.
He has served at the highest levels of
government for decades—former Attor-
ney General, Deputy Attorney General,
and chief legal counsel to the CIA. He
has done it all.
He is ready to take over, and he is
mature in his judgment. He is calm in
his demeanor. He is passionate about
the law. He loves the Department of
Justice.
To the American people, you can go
to bed here soon knowing that the De-
partment of Justice is in good hands.
To my colleagues that voted against
him, give him a chance. I think he is
going to deliver for the country.
To the committee, thank you for al-
lowing the nomination to go through
so quickly.
To DIANNE FEINSTEIN, who is a great
partner, I appreciate the processing of
the nomination. We may have dif-
ferences of opinion about what the
right answer is, but we could not have
asked for a better process. Mr. Barr
was challenged, but respectfully so.
Having said that, we are about to
confirm a new Attorney General at a
time when we need one. This is just not
somebody for the job. This is a very
special person for the job.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, I guess I am here to follow my
friend Senator GRAHAM and bring the
opposing view regarding Mr. Barr.
I offer my appreciation to the chair-
man, as he leaves, for the way that he
conducted the hearing. I know that he
offered his appreciation to the ranking
member, but the hearing, I thought,
was well handled. Everybody had a
chance to ask their questions and say
their things, and I think the comments
that the chairman made afterward
about trying to bring the committee
together were well received on my side.
There are a number of problems,
however, that I have with this nomi-
nee. Many of them relate to continuing
problems in the Department. One, in
particular, I warned Mr. Barr about in
a letter that I sent to him beforehand
in order to make sure that he wasn’t
surprised by the question and so that I
could get a proper, thoughtful answer.
The problem is that the Department,
for purposes of recusal analysis and for
purposes of conflict analysis, takes a
look at what people’s different finan-
cial entanglements are and who they
worked for before. It is a fairly stand-
ard process, but there is a big gaping
hole in it. The big gaping hole in the
process is that when it was set up
originally at the beginning of the
Obama administration, the Supreme
Court hadn’t yet decided Citizens
United, so the flood of unlimited spe-
cial interest money that poured into
our politics, which quickly became un-
limited, special interest dark money,
was not then a problem.
Also, you didn’t see a lot of Demo-
crats who had a lot of engagement with
dark money coming to high office, but
with the Trump administration that
all changed, and we now have an Act-
ing Attorney General, Mr. Whitaker,
who was paid $1.2 million through a
group called FACT. Basically, FACT is
a front group. It does no business. It
has no product. It provides no service.
It basically just pays Mr. Whitaker to
go on talk shows and criticize Demo-
crats. There are very few employees.
The only employee I am aware of,
other than, perhaps, clerical people,
was actually Whitaker himself, so one
would like to know why he was paid
that money and who paid him in order
to do proper recusal and conflict
checks.
But here is what is interesting: The
money that came in to pay him
through FACT, before it got to FACT,
had been laundered through another
group called Donors Trust. Donors
Trust is another group that does no
business, has no service, creates no
product, manufactures nothing. Its
purpose for existence is to strip the
identities off of big donors—ordinarily
it seems big Republican special inter-
est donors—so that the money they
then give goes anonymously to groups
that pretend they are not fossil fuel
funded, for instance, because the iden-
tity of the fossil fuel donor has been
stripped clean, or they are not the tool
of the Koch brothers because the Koch
brothers’ identity has been stripped
clean. It is a device for misleading and
confusing people. When you consider
how much of that $1 million went
through to Mr. Whitaker in salary, the
idea that he doesn’t know who was pay-
ing him when so much of FACT’s
money came through that one donation
is really improbable.
He was questioned on this in the
House the other day. I don’t think he
was truthful. I think he does know, and
I hope—hope—that the House will pur-
sue with subpoenas finding out who the
donor was so that we actually know,
because I think he does. Obviously, the
donor does.
So what we have now is a situation
where the Acting Attorney General of
the United States potentially has a $1
million conflict of interest that I be-
lieve the Acting Attorney General
knows about, that the donor with
whom he has a conflict of interest obvi-
ously knows about, that has been hid-
den from the rest of us through laun-
dering through Donors Trust, and that
is not an environment that is condu-
cive to proper recusal and proper con-
flict-of-interest assessment.
It is very poor practice, and if it
weren’t for the fact that dark money is
so important to big Republican donor
interests, I think people would readily
clear this up. If the shoe were on the
other foot, my colleagues on the other
side would have steam coming out of
their ears to get to the bottom of this.
But because what is likely to be re-
vealed is a big Republican donor, sud-
denly there is this massive disinterest.
Mr. Barr proposed himself as the per-
son who is going to come to this office
to defend the Department of Justice, to
put the institutional interests of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.040 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1268 February 12, 2019
Department of Justice first, to protect
it from the vagaries of the Trump ad-
ministration. Yet when he was asked
about this, he completely fell down. He
offered no sensible or reasonable assur-
ances, so that concerned me a little
bit.
I then went on to ask him, since the
Department of Justice has a National
Security Division, which oversees
counterintelligence work, and since
the Department of Justice contains the
FBI, which does the counterintel-
ligence investigations to protect our
country, I asked him this: In a counter-
intelligence investigation, in operating
to protect our country in this counter-
intelligence function, what should the
Department of Justice know about
business or other entanglements of sen-
ior officials with foreign interests and
powers?
The very heart of counterintelligence
is to look at American officials and see
what their vulnerabilities might be to
influence or control or manipulation
by foreign interests and powers. That
is the goal of doing counterintelligence
in the first place.
So what evidence do you need to be
able to do that? Obviously, it would be
helpful to know what business or other
interests with foreign powers senior of-
ficials have so that you can make that
assessment, so you can follow whatever
leads that might produce, that may
give you understanding of things that
otherwise seem inexplicable. It is obvi-
ous evidence to support the FBI’s coun-
terintelligence function.
Rather than give a straight answer
and say ‘‘Yes, this is obvious evidence,
and obviously we will do our counter-
intelligence function better when we
know when senior officials have foreign
business entanglements,’’ again he
completely fell down in his answer and
started quarrelling about what Sen-
ators have to declare and wouldn’t give
a straight answer. Well, there is an ob-
vious reason he wouldn’t give a
straight answer. The obvious reason he
would not give a straight answer is
that the President who appointed him
has significant—although we don’t un-
derstand them well yet—significant
business entanglements that we don’t
know about. We need to find out what
his business entanglements are, and it
is really hard to assess some of his be-
havior without knowing who is on the
other side of his foreign business rela-
tionships and how much money is in-
volved and how much is at risk for
him. That is pretty elementary stuff.
If you are the person who is telling
yourself, as the Attorney General, who
is going to come in and be the institu-
tionalist and defend the prerogatives of
the Department, defend the procedures
and protocols of the Department
against a President who respects none
of that and who has those very entan-
glements, to then come in and say
‘‘You know what, I am not going to be
interested in any of that; I am, instead,
going to ask counterquestions back to
you about other different officials’’—
the inability to get a straight answer
to that question signals a great deal to
me about when, in a pinch, he has to
choose between defending the Depart-
ment and protecting the political in-
terests of the President, which way he
is going to go. I gave him that choice
in that question. I gave him that
choice in that question, and he very
clearly came down on the side of pro-
tecting the political interests of the
President.
If you can’t get through a hearing
question without flipping away from
the interests of the Department and
protecting the President, good luck
when the pressure is really on. He lost
enormous credibility with me in his in-
ability to answer those questions.
It is really hard to determine recusal
for conflict of interest if you don’t
know who paid $1 million to a senior
Department official, and it is really
hard to determine counterintelligence
issues if you don’t know what foreign
entanglements senior officials have.
Those are statements I would hope
would be so obvious as to be indis-
putable. Yet this candidate foundered
on both of them.
The other issue is the question of Ex-
ecutive power. Again, you would think
that the Senate would be interested in
standing up for the prerogatives of the
legislative body since we are the legis-
lative body and we have a very long
and proud tradition.
From that perspective, as a Senator
and legislator, I look ahead, and I see
constitutional battles. There are a lot
of constitutional battles that I see
coming. The first is going to be, if the
President, when he gets or after he gets
the budget measure that we have
agreed to here—hopefully, we have
agreed to here; I think it is done—if he
decides that he is going to declare a na-
tional emergency and start moving
money around between accounts in
order to build his, as I affectionately
refer to it, ‘‘big dumb wall,’’ that is a
constitutional problem, and article I of
the Constitution says it is the legisla-
ture that has the power to appropriate
and spend funds.
So if a President is going to use his
own unilateral declaration of a na-
tional emergency to say to Congress
‘‘Sorry, your power of the purse is not
actually all that real; it is the power of
advice to me, and as soon as I declare
a national emergency, I can spend your
money where I want,’’ that violates the
separation of powers. That is a con-
stitutional battle, and one can see it
coming.
Executive privilege is a constant con-
stitutional battle between Congress
and the executive branch. Congress
wants information; Congress seeks in-
formation; Congress needs information
to perform its constitutional oversight
function. But certain narrow commu-
nications within the executive branch
are protected from Congress’s right to
do that in order to protect certain con-
versations and freedoms directly
around the President of the United
States as he has conversations. That is
the general understanding of how exec-
utive privilege works.
Well, this administration has a very
different understanding of how execu-
tive privilege works. They think that
you get to come into a Senate hearing
and not answer a question because
some day maybe somebody else might
exert executive privilege as to what
you have said. But there is no deadline
ever; there is no check ever; there is no
day of reckoning ever. They just assert
it, and because we have not enforced
our powers here, they have gotten
away with it. So executive privilege
has grown into a swamp of executive
obstruction of congressional oversight.
We have to bring executive privilege
back to its true base and its true roots,
and as we try to do that, guess what.
That is going to be another battle be-
tween the legislative and executive
branches—another constitutional bat-
tle.
The question of whether or not the
President can be indicted by a grand
jury is another constitutional battle
we have coming, very likely. We will
have to see what the special counsel
and the other Department of Justice
investigations into this President and
the people around him reveal, but they
could very well reveal sufficient evi-
dence to justify an indictment of any-
one else who is not the President.
Within the Department of Justice
there is a group called the Office of
Legal Counsel, which is kind of the
legal advisor to the Department of Jus-
tice. The Office of Legal Counsel has
decided that a Department of Justice
cannot indict a sitting President. Here
is the problem with that. The Office of
Legal Counsel isn’t elected by anybody.
They are career people. They tend to be
hypersmart, but their purpose in life in
opining on the separation-of-powers
questions is to describe the maximum
possible credible scope of Executive
power. They represent the executive
branch, and when they are making
these separation-of-powers decisions,
they always veer to the maximum
greatest Executive power that they can
justify. That does not mean that a
court would agree with them. That
does not mean that a court would agree
with them.
Ever since Marbury v. Madison, it
has been the constitutional power of
the courts, particularly the Supreme
Court, to say what the law is. The
question of whether a President can be
indicted is a question of what the law
is regarding the indictment of a Presi-
dent. So that question ought to be de-
cided in a court, but as the Office of
Legal Counsel is never going to let a
case go forward, then how is the De-
partment ever going to get that opin-
ion that it has tested in court to get a
real answer under the constitutional
system? Well, they probably will not.
It is going to be difficult. We are going
to have to try to find a way, if they do
assert that, to get that proposition
tested in a court instead of relying on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.041 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1269
February 12, 2019
the opinion of a group of lawyers with-
in an executive branch Agency as to
the relative powers of the courts and
the executive branch.
The question of interference with
these investigations by the President
and the independence of those inves-
tigations also raises a variety of con-
stitutional questions.
I have to say the top line of Mr. Barr
on all of these issues was fantastic. I
was kind of mentally cheering when he
said some of the things he said about
how he was going to keep his hands off,
how he respected Mueller, how this was
no witch hunt, how he was going to
make sure it had full scope, how he was
going to try to get the maximum
transparency about the final report
that he could—all of which was fine—
and then we went into the weeds a lit-
tle bit.
As the old saying goes, the devil is in
the details. The question was serious
enough that I raised it in the com-
mittee after the hearing because I was
unsatisfied with his responses. Chair-
man GRAHAM was kind enough to ac-
knowledge that those were pretty darn
good questions, and I should get an an-
swer to them. He said he would try to
get an answer for me, and maybe we
would get on the phone together to get
Barr those answers. That did not come
to pass.
Instead, I wrote Mr. Barr a letter,
asking him to clarify his answers. I got
back a letter that provided no clari-
fication at all. So I have given him
quite a few chances to try to answer
these questions. I haven’t gotten a
straight answer back, which makes me
a little bit worried.
Here is the problem—there are actu-
ally two problems. At the end of the
day, whenever the Mueller report is
concluded, that report can be provided
to Congress, but there is considerable
flexibility and considerable discretion
within the Department of Justice and
the Attorney General’s office as to how
much to give.
I will interrupt because I see the dis-
tinguished majority leader here.
I yield the floor to the distinguished
majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I thank the Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO EMILIA DISANTO
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
today I wish to acknowledge Emilia
DiSanto, an outstanding civil servant
who is retiring after almost 36 years of
distinguished service in the Federal
Government, 16 of which were here on
Capitol Hill.
Emilia is a proud New Yorker, who
graduated from Fordham Law School.
She served in the Department of En-
ergy, at the Legal Services Corpora-
tion, in both the House and Senate, and
she worked for inspectors general.
Emilia is the ultimate civil servant
who worked in both the executive and
legislative branches of government.
During her 16-year career on Capitol
Hill, Emilia worked for, among others,
Speaker Newt Gingrich and former-
Representative Bill Goodling, Henry
Hyde, Bill McCollum, and Ambassador
Pete Hoekstra. In the Senate, Emilia
served as staff director for the Small
Business Committee for Senator Kit
Bond and, later, Senator Olympia
Snow.
I had the pleasure of having Emilia
on my staff in two different capacities.
First, as the chief investigative counsel
for the Special Committee on Aging
where she conducted oversight of the
nursing and funeral home industries.
Emilia later served on the Finance
Committee as my chief investigative
counsel and special counsel and tack-
led such issues as drug and device safe-
ty, medical conflicts of interest, and
other healthcare issues. She is known
to be trustworthy, bold, honest, and bi-
partisan. Emilia has boundless energy
and good judgment, and she is deeply
committed to the interests of the
American people. The American people
are better off because of her public
service.
f
CENTRE COLLEGE BICENTENNIAL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
Kentucky’s rich history brings many
causes of reflection and celebration.
For 200 years, Centre College has been
a premier setting for liberal arts edu-
cation in Kentucky, earning nation-
wide acclaim and respect. So today I
would like to commemorate the bicen-
tennial of one of the Commonwealth’s
most treasured institutions.
In 1819, the Kentucky Legislature
formally established the school in
Danville, giving it a name inspired by
its central geographic location. Over-
seeing the school was a board of trust-
ees filled with notable Kentuckians, in-
cluding our first Governor, Isaac
Shelby, as its chairman and Ephraim
McDowell, the famed frontier surgeon
who performed the first successful
ovariotomy. Construction began short-
ly after on the school’s first building,
which was completed the next year and
stands to this day with the name ‘‘Old
Centre.’’ Classes began that fall with
two professors and five pupils. With a
commitment to classical liberal arts
education, the curriculum focused on
topics such as Latin, Greek, rhetoric,
and logic.
Encountering financial difficulties in
subsequent years, Kentucky ceded ad-
ministration of Centre to a Pres-
byterian denomination but the legisla-
ture ensured that the school would re-
main accessible to students and faculty
of all faiths. In 1830, a new president
took the reins of the school. Twenty-
seven-year-old John C. Young, a min-
ister, teacher, and administrator, ex-
panded the college and helped advance
it toward distinction. At the end of his
27 years of leadership, the school boast-
ed a 200-plus student body, secured an
endowment of more than $100,000, and
employed a renowned faculty.
Through the following decades, the
school continued to grow in excellence
and impact. Although the Civil War
caused a temporary drop in the number
of graduates—and the successive occu-
pations of Old Centre by Confederate
and Union forces—Centre’s commit-
ment to its liberal arts mission never
wavered. The school had gained such
great national distinction that the
president of Princeton University, also
the future President of the United
States Woodrow Wilson, is said to have
remarked in 1903 that, ‘‘There is a lit-
tle college down in Kentucky which, in
her sixty years, has graduated more
men who have acquired prominence
and fame than has Princeton in her 150
years.’’
Centre’s reputation for excellence
has reached beyond the classroom. In
what the New York Times would later
call ‘‘Football’s Upset of the Century,’’
the Praying Colonels scored an un-
likely victory over the top-ranked Har-
vard University football team in 1921.
Not long after, Centre officially be-
came coeducational in 1926. The fol-
lowing decades saw the integration of
the school, the expansion of the cam-
pus to include new buildings, and the
establishment of a chapter of the pres-
tigious Phi Beta Kappa honor society.
One of the greatest measures of a col-
lege are the alumni it has produced.
Centre graduates can be found in a
wide range of distinguished fields, in-
cluding the highest levels of the U.S.
Government. Vice Presidents John C.
Breckinridge and Adlai Stevenson both
held diplomas from the school, as did
Supreme Court Chief Justice Fred Vin-
son and Associate Justice John Mar-
shall Harlan. More than a dozen U.S.
Senators, scores of Congressmen, and
11 Governors have also graduated from
the school, as have leaders in business,
medicine, law, and journalism. Perhaps
it was the school’s history of producing
Vice Presidents and other prominent
figures that led to its hosting of not
one, but two Vice Presidential debates,
in 2000 and 2012.
For such an impressive milestone,
Centre has planned a year of
celebratory events to mark its history
and to herald its potential for the fu-
ture. With President John Roush, the
faculty, staff, students, and one of the
most engaged alumni bases in the
country, I am proud to mark Centre
College’s bicentennial. They all deserve
the Senate’s congratulations and best
wishes for the future of liberal arts
education in Kentucky.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.042 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1270 February 12, 2019
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, like
many of my fellow Americans I lis-
tened to the President’s State of the
Union Address 1 week ago, and while
there are any number of the Presi-
dent’s false or misleading assertions
that I could refute, I want to take a
minute to highlight just a few.
The President began his remarks
with a focus on cooperation and com-
promise, calling for unity among both
political parties to work together and
break what he described as ‘‘decades of
political stalemate.’’ The reality is
that last Tuesday’s address followed
the longest shutdown in our govern-
ment’s history—a shutdown that re-
sulted from the President’s stubborn
refusal to work with Congress—and was
delivered by a President who has made
a daily practice of making unfounded,
personal attacks against Democrats
and anyone else who opposes his
xenophobic, ill-conceived policies.
The President went on to call on
Congress to make needed commitments
to ‘‘defeat AIDS in America and be-
yond.’’ Who doesn’t support that? The
problem is that his administration pro-
posed a $1 billion cut in fiscal year 2018
and a $1.2 billion cut in fiscal year 2019
to combat HIV/AIDS around the world.
This is typical of this White House.
The President makes outlandish
claims, whether in ignorance or reck-
less disregard for the truth, in a trans-
parent attempt to appear to care about
solving problems his administration is
actually making worse.
Funding for these programs has been
restored by Congress—not in partner-
ship, but rather in spite of, the White
House. Many Members of Congress, my-
self included, are waiting for the Presi-
dent’s upcoming budget request for fis-
cal year 2020, to see if his professed
support for HIV/AIDS programs will be
backed up with the necessary funding.
The President also mentioned a new
‘‘government-wide initiative focused
on economic empowerment for women
in developing countries.’’ That is a
laudable goal that Republicans and
Democrats have been supporting for
years, but the reality is that this ad-
ministration has repeatedly cut fund-
ing for family planning and other
health programs that directly con-
tribute to women’s health and eco-
nomic prosperity, as well as funding to
combat gender-based violence and to
support UN agencies focused on wom-
en’s health, economic empowerment,
and human rights.
The President stated that our coun-
try has ‘‘a moral duty to create an im-
migration system that protects the
lives and jobs of our citizens.’’ There is
nothing remotely moral about forcibly
and needlessly separating young chil-
dren from their parents at our border
and not even caring enough to keep a
record of their whereabouts so they can
be reunited with their parents. The
President stated that he wants legal
immigrants ‘‘to come into our country,
in the largest numbers ever.’’ Is he
even aware that his administration has
slashed the refugee admissions cap
from 110,000 per year down to 30,000, a
record low for our country?
The President recalled the countless
Americans, like the soldiers who
stormed the beaches of Normandy 75
years ago, whose selfless sacrifices
helped freedom triumph over fascism
and solidified our Nation’s place as the
world’s only superpower. He challenged
us not to squander what we have inher-
ited from ‘‘the blood and tears and
courage and vision of the Americans
who came before.’’ The irony of that
message isn’t lost on those of us who
have worked, if sometimes unsuccess-
fully, to mitigate the impact of the
President’s relentless efforts to under-
mine the international order that
those Americans strived to create to
protect global peace and security for
future generations.
The President routinely injects un-
certainty into our support for NATO,
has withdrawn from the Iran nuclear
deal despite Iran’s compliance as con-
firmed by his own administration, re-
moved the United States from the
Paris Climate Accord, the Global Mi-
gration Compact, the UN Human
Rights Council, and has otherwise
threatened or taken steps to walk
away from numerous multilateral com-
mitments that provide the United
States with a platform for global lead-
ership. Without U.S. engagement in
these arenas, our adversaries are un-
checked to pursue their own interests,
which are often at odds with ours.
The President should heed his own
words. The American soldiers at Nor-
mandy were not answering a call to
unilateralism or isolationism. Presi-
dent Roosevelt, 4 years earlier, cau-
tioned the country against those who
‘‘believe that we can save our own
skins by shutting our eyes to the fate
of other nations.’’ Addressing the
threat of the Axis powers, he stated, ‘‘I
make the direct statement to the
American people that there is far less
chance of the United States getting
into war if we do all we can now to sup-
port the nations defending themselves
against attack.’’ Now, as then, we must
do everything in our power to strength-
en global alliances and confront
threats to peace and stability head on.
International diplomacy should be a
tool of first resort, not a casualty of
domestic politics. The President de-
clares that his actions advance U.S. na-
tional security interests, but we know
better.
These are but a few examples of how
the President’s lofty rhetoric bore no
factual relationship to the actions of
his administration. The American peo-
ple deserve to know the truth, not to
be misled by the President of the
United States.
f
RECONGIZING SARDUCCI’S
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President. I read
an article about Sarducci’s celebrating
25 years in Montpelier.
Marcelle and I have enjoyed eating at
Sarducci’s since it first opened and are
thrilled with what Carol Paquette and
Jeff Butterfield have done with the res-
taurant.
I remember when they first opened
and how Dorothy Korshak, the original
founder, wondered whether anybody
would come in. I remember telling
Dorothy that, if they keep providing
food that good, people will show up.
My mother was born in Vermont, a
first generation Italian-American. We
always ate Italian food, both at my
grandparents’ home in South Ryegate,
VT or at our home in Montpelier, VT.
It feels like going home to go to
Sarducci’s. It is one of our favorite res-
taurants.
I ask unanimous consent that the ar-
ticle from thebridge entitled
‘‘Sarducci’s Celebrates 25 Years in
Montpelier’’ be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From thebrigde Jan. 23, 2019]
SARDUCCI’S CELEBRATES 25 YEARS IN
MONTELIER
(By Tim Simard)
On a recent sunny and chilly January
afternoon, Sarducci’s Restaurant founder
and co-owner Carol Paquette relaxed by a
front table and looked back on 25 years. Sit-
ting alongside head chef and new co-owner
Jeff Butterfield, Paquette marveled at sur-
viving two-and-a-half decades in the res-
taurant business—a momentous achieve-
ment. This past weekend, the Montpelier in-
stitution quietly celebrated the milestone
birthday.
Paquette can remember Sarducci’s first
day quite clearly—Jan. 19, 1994. It was a
Wednesday.
‘‘We opened at 4 pm. It was freezing out-
side. Dorothy Korshak [founder and former
business partner] and I had no idea who
might or how many people might stop in. We
really hadn’t done any advertising to let peo-
ple know we were opening,’’ she said.
But people knew. Oh, they knew. Within
the first hour of business, it was clear that
Montpelier was ready for Sarducci’s.
‘‘The doors opened and people just kept
coming in. We hadn’t planned on so many
that night, but by the end we had served
close to 200 people,’’ Paquette said, still in
awe of that first night’s success.
Paquette attributes Sarducci’s early suc-
cess to a lack of restaurants in Montpelier at
that time. She said locals were ‘‘desperate’’
for a place where families could sit down in
a cozy atmosphere with the whole family and
have an amazing, authentic Italian dinner.
The signature wood-fired oven was also a
unique feature for a Montpelier restaurant.
Paquette and Korshak—who started their
partnership as coworkers at Julio’s—re-
searched Italian restaurants in Boston, New
York, and Chicago and noted the popularity
of these ovens.
‘‘We saw the restaurants that had the
wood-fired ovens were becoming more and
more popular,’’ Paquette said.
Since those first days, Sarducci’s has be-
come a go-to dining spot in the Capital City.
In its 25 years, the restaurant has renovated
its space, added a deck overlooking the
Winooski River, and doubled its seating ca-
pacity, all while keeping its menu remark-
ably consistent. Today, Sarducci’s enters a
new chapter as it celebrates a quarter cen-
tury.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.028 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1271
February 12, 2019
At end of 2018, Butterfield bought in to the
business and is now a co-owner alongside
Paquette. Butterfield, an East Montpelier
native and graduate of the New England Cul-
inary Institute, has been with Sarducci’s for
nearly seven years. His experience pre-
Sarducci’s included running kitchens in
tourist locales from Charleston, S.C. to
Stowe.
‘‘When a sous chef position opened [in
2012], I jumped at the chance. I was ready to
move back home, and I fell in love with this
place on day one,’’ Butterfield said.
Butterfield said that Sarducci’s has a fam-
ily atmosphere amongst its employees that’s
unique to other places he’s worked. Paquette
added that several employees have been with
the restaurant for years and even decades.
Butterfield was promoted to head chef in
2014; around the same time Korshak decided
to retire, leaving Paquette as sole owner.
But the demands of running one of the city’s
most popular restaurants became chal-
lenging for one person. Butterfield pitched
himself to be Sarducci’s next co-owner.
Paquette knew it would be the right fit.
‘‘He’s so good at what he does, he’s super
smart, and his ego doesn’t get in the way.
That last part is very important,’’ she said.
Sarducci’s 25-year story is one of growth
and consistency. Customers know what
they’ll get each time they walk through the
doors. The pollo al marsala and salmone
cucina remain the most popular menu items,
as they have since the first year.
‘‘Montpelier has changed a lot, but we’re
still here. We’re still serving great Italian
food that’s affordable, fresh, and locally
sourced,’’ Butterfield said.
f
S. 47
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I am
pleased that today the Senate passed S.
47, a bipartisan package of conserva-
tion and natural resources bills that
will help preserve irreplaceable his-
toric sites and conserve unique wildlife
throughout my State of Maryland.
I worked with my counterpart, the
junior Senator from Maryland, to se-
cure multiple provisions in the bill rec-
ognizing the historical and cultural
significance of great places, including
Baltimore’s President Street Station,
the oldest surviving urban railroad ter-
minal in America, as well as Public
School 103, the elementary school
where Justice Thurgood Marshall first
learned many of the lessons that would
make him a legendary lawyer and
American jurist.
For years, we have worked to move
Justice Marshall’s elementary school
and President Street Station closer to
improved, permanent preservation so
that current and future generations
can learn the facts about Baltimore’s
role in the American Civil War and in
the Civil Rights movement. In addi-
tion, the public lands package includes
permanent reauthorization of the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, which
has been a vital tool for securing public
access in the Chesapeake Bay Water-
shed through the creation of treasured
parks, refuges, community green
spaces, battlefields, and habitat con-
servation and restoration projects.
S. 47 also includes reauthorization of
the Neotropical Migratory Bird Con-
servation Act, which promotes long-
term conservation, education, re-
search, monitoring, and habitat protec-
tion activities for more than 380 spe-
cies of migratory birds, including
Maryland’s State bird, the Baltimore
Oriole.
The Baltimore Oriole and other mi-
gratory birds are critical indicators of
the health of Maryland’s ecosystems,
agriculture, and outdoor recreation
economy.
I am also delighted the package in-
cludes the Appalachian Forest Na-
tional Heritage Area Act, legislation I
cosponsored led by my colleagues in
the Senate delegation from West Vir-
ginia. This bipartisan legislation pro-
poses to protect forest management
heritage in portions of West Virginia,
as well as two counties in western
Maryland, and to develop interpretive
and recreational themes. This will
bring visitors and small business devel-
opment to this remarkable region.
No compromise is perfect, but this
package will advance priorities in
every corner of my State that have
been years in the making. I applaud
Senate passage of this landmark legis-
lation.
f
REMEMBERING JOHN D. DINGELL
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
wish to pay tribute to a true Michigan
and American legend: the Dean of the
House and my longtime friend, Con-
gressman John D. Dingell.
Congressman Dingell ably rep-
resented his district for 59 years, the
longest tenure of any Member in his-
tory. However, his service to our Na-
tion started long before that.
He was there on the House floor as a
page on December 8, 1941, to hear Presi-
dent Roosevelt declare that the bomb-
ing of Pearl Harbor was ‘‘a day which
will live in infamy.’’ Three years later,
he joined the Army to fight against
Nazi Germany. He would have been in
the Battle of the Bulge if he hadn’t
been hospitalized with meningitis
Later, he was 3 days away from ship-
ping out to the Pacific Theater to take
part in a ground invasion of Japan
when the atomic bombs were dropped.
So John Dingell proved his patriot-
ism long before he joined Congress in
1955, following the death of his beloved
father, who preceded him as Represent-
ative for Michigan’s 15th Congressional
District.
When he joined Congress, there was
no Interstate Highway System. Alaska
and Hawaii were not yet States, and
Medicare and Medicaid did not exist
yet. In fact, he helped vote these life-
saving programs into law.
Congressman Dingell was not merely
a witness to history. He was a maker of
it. His original family name, translated
into Polish, meant ‘‘blacksmith.’’ That
was fitting because this was a man who
hammered out our Nation’s laws, forg-
ing a stronger union that could weath-
er the challenges of the future.
Perhaps his most courageous vote oc-
curred in 1964, in favor of the Civil
Rights Act. Advisers told him that
vote would destroy his chances at re-
election; yet Congressman Dingell had
faith in his constituents, and he re-
fused to compromise his principles for
the sake of political survival.
Healthcare was one of his passions,
one that he inherited from his father.
John Dingell, Sr., introduced a bill for
universal healthcare in 1945 and contin-
ued to fight for it till the end of his
life.
John Dingell, Jr., adopted that cause
from his first day as his father’s suc-
cessor. He always believed that every
American should have access to
healthcare, and he never stopped work-
ing to make that goal a reality.
As a boy, he lived through America’s
Great Depression, and as a Congress-
man, he helped to overcome America’s
Great Recession.
He witnessed the rise of the auto-
mobile industry and saw how those
unionized workers built America’s mid-
dle class. Then he led efforts with me
and others in the Michigan delegation
to make sure that American autos and
American workers could compete on an
even playing field.
While scientific consensus was still
forming about how pollution threat-
ened our air, land, and water, John
Dingell wrote the Endangered Species
Act in 1973 and the major expansion of
the Clean Air Act in 1990.
He led our efforts to create the first
national wildlife refuge in North Amer-
ica and teamed up with me and my
friend and former colleague, Senator
Levin, to make the River Raisin Bat-
tlefield a national park.
John Dingell loved Michigan. He un-
derstood the connection our people
have to manufacturing, to agriculture,
and to the land and our Great Lakes.
Even during the years he spent
chairing the House Energy and Com-
merce Committee, when Congressman
Dingell was one of the most powerful
Members of Congress, you could still
find him riding atop a Ford Mustang
convertible at Dearborn’s Memorial
Day Parade or at a booth at the Mon-
roe County Fair.
The people of his district never
doubted his dedication. That is why
they would still put ‘‘Dingell for Con-
gress’’ signs on their lawn, long after
his district boundaries had changed. If
a piece of Southeast Michigan was
‘‘Dingell Country’’ once, then it was
Dingell Country forever.
This was not a man eager to retire;
he loved his job too much. He consid-
ered it an enormous privilege, one that
gave meaning and purpose to his life.
He fought for his constituents until his
health prevented him from fighting
anymore.
And he felt great pride and his con-
stituents felt great comfort knowing
that the district would remain in the
hands of his beloved wife, DEBBIE, who
was his closest confidant for more than
40 years and understood him better
than anyone.
I know that all of us are sending her
and their family and many friends our
love and support at this time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.016 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1272 February 12, 2019
He certainly had many, many
friends. He gained a whole new genera-
tion of fans through his always-pithy
Twitter account, and I am going to
miss reading his take on the news of
the day.
Up until the very end, he was con-
stantly evolving, charging boldly into
the future, driven by a very simple
principle: ‘‘We are put on this earth to
help people.’’ That was just what he
did.
John D. Dingell, Jr., claimed to be
the ‘‘luckiest man in shoe leather.’’ I
have to say that Michigan and America
were very lucky too.
f
TRIBUTE TO DANIEL GLICKSTEIN
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, as
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Armed Services, it is our privilege to
pay tribute to Daniel Glickstein as he
prepares to leave his position as a
detailee for the Senate Committee on
Armed Services and return to his posi-
tion as an analyst for the Government
Accountability Office.
For the past 11 months, Mr.
Glickstein has assisted the committee
and its members with high-priority
work overseeing defense contracting
reform. His contributions to our com-
mittee’s work have been significant
and highly valued by our staff.
On behalf of the Senate Committee
on Armed Services, I thank Mr.
Glickstein and wish him future success
as he continues to support the U.S.
Government.
f
TRIBUTE TO CHRISTOPHER MANN
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, as
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Armed Services, it is my privilege to
pay tribute to Christopher Mann as he
prepares to leave his position as a
detailee for the Senate Committee on
Armed Services and return to his posi-
tion as an analyst in defense policy and
trade for the Congressional Research
Service.
For the past 3 months, Mr. Mann has
assisted the committee and its mem-
bers with high-priority work on the fis-
cal year 2020 National Defense Author-
ization Act, with a particular focus on
issues relating to defense spending and
the budget. His contributions to our
committee’s work have been signifi-
cant and highly valued by our staff
On behalf of the Senate Committee
on Armed Services, I thank Mr. Mann
and wish him future success as he con-
tinues to support the U.S. Congress and
its staff.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING HEALTHPARTNERS
∑ Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
today I wish to recognize the achieve-
ment of HealthPartners, a healthcare
provider based in Bloomington, MN,
which was selected by the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to re-
ceive a Health Equity Award for its ef-
forts to improve healthcare quality, ac-
cess, and outcomes among underserved
and minority populations.
Founded in 1957, HealthPartners is
the largest consumer-governed non-
profit healthcare organization in the
United States. HealthPartners serves
more than 1.8 million consumers with
its medical and dental plans and oper-
ates a multispecialty group practice of
more than 1,800 physicians. To accom-
plish its mission of improving the
health and well-being of its patients
and broader community,
HealthPartners has brought together
more than 26,000 employees. As dem-
onstrated HealthPartners’ receipt of
the Health Equity Award, their hard
work has paid off.
As recognized by the award, in just 3
years, HealthPartners was able to sig-
nificantly reduce disparities in
colorectal screening and antidepression
medication compliance. In just 1 year,
HealthPartners nearly eliminated the
gap in mental health length of stay for
patients with a limited ability to speak
English.
Minnesota has long been recognized
as a leader in healthcare innovation,
and I am proud to recognize
HealthPartners’ contributions to that
work.
Thank you.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 11:30 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1063. An act to amend title 44, United
States Code, to require information on con-
tributors to Presidential library fundraising
organizations, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1064. An act to amend title 5, United
States Code, to allow whistleblowers to dis-
close information to certain recipients.
H.R. 1065. An act to provide for a study on
the use of social media in security clearance
investigations.
H.R. 1079. An act to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
and for other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House has agreed to the following reso-
lution:
H. Res. 121. Resolution relative to the
death of the Honorable Walter B. Jones, a
Representative from the State of North
Carolina.
The message further announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 1928a, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the United States
Group of the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly: Ms. SÁNCHEZ of California, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. MEEKS of New York,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. COSTA of California.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1063. An act to amend title 44, United
States Code, to require information on con-
tributors to Presidential library fundraising
organizations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
H.R. 1064. An act to amend title 5, United
States Code, to allow whistleblowers to dis-
close information to certain recipients; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1065. An act to provide for a study on
the use of social media in security clearance
investigations; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1079. An act to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 464. A bill to require the treatment of a
lapse in appropriations as a mitigating con-
dition when assessing financial consider-
ations for security clearances, and for other
purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–251. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Trifloxystrobin; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9985–23–OCSPP) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–252. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Trifluralin; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9983–89–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.012 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1273
February 12, 2019
President of the Senate on February 8, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–253. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General Jo-
seph L. Votel, United States Army, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–254. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General Ray-
mond A. Thomas III, United States Army,
and his advancement to the grade of general
on the retired list; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–255. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting the re-
port of an officer authorized to wear the in-
signia of the grade of lieutenant general in
accordance with title 10, United States Code,
section 777a, for a period not to exceed 14
days before assuming the duties of the posi-
tion for which the higher grade is author-
ized, this will not cause the Department to
exceed the number of frocked officers au-
thorized; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–256. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Devel-
opment and Acquisition), transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress on Repair of Naval Vessels in For-
eign Shipyards’’; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–257. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility; Alaska: Vadez’’ ((44 CFR Part 64)
(Docket No. FEMA–2018–0002)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 6, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–258. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; South Carolina;
Revisions to Prevention of Significant Dete-
rioration Rules’’ (FRL No. 9989–22–Region 4)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–259. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin; Rea-
sonable Further Progress Plan and Other
Plan Elements for the Moderate Nonattain-
ment Chicago Area for the 2008 Ozone Stand-
ards’’ (FRL No. 9989–23–Region 5) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–260. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Maryland;
Reasonably Available Control Technology
(RACT) State Implementation Plan (SIP)
Under the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (NAAQS)’’ (FRL No. 9989–
15–Region 3) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–261. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; California; South Coast Se-
rious Area Plan for the 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS’’
(FRL No. 9988–60–Region 9) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 8,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–262. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; Texas; Reasonable Further
Progress Plan for the Houston-Galveston-
Brazoria Ozone Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL
No. 9988–61–Region 6) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 8, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–263. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Air Plans; 2008 8-Hour Ozone
Nonattainment Area Requirements; San Joa-
quin Valley, California’’ (FRL No. 9988–40–
Region 9) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–264. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of
Wood Building Products Residual Risk and
Technology Review’’ (FRL No. 9988–71–OAR)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–265. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants: Wet-Formed Fiber-
glass Mat Production Residual Risk and
Technology Review’’ (FRL No. 9988–91–OAR)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–266. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Adjust-
ment of Civil Penalties for Inflation for Fis-
cal Year 2019’’ (RIN3150–AK02) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 6, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–267. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Public Approval of
Tax-Exempt Private Activity Bonds’’
(RIN1545–BG91) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–268. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment and the export of fire-
arms, parts, and components, including tech-
nical data and defense services, abroad con-
trolled under Category I of the U.S. Muni-
tions Lists to Canada to support the manu-
facture, integration, installation, operation,
training, and testing of small caliber weap-
ons parts in the amount of $1,000,000 or more
(Transmittal No. DDTC 18–078); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–269. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs,
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regu-
latory Reform Revisions to the Internal
Traffic in Arms Regulations’’ (RIN1400–AE52)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 1, 2019; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
EC–270. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, Federal Retirement
Thrift Investment Board, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘TSP Loan Eligibility During Government
Shutdowns’’ (5 CFR Part 1655) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 7, 2019; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–271. A communication from the Chief
Operating Officer of the Federal Mediation
and Conciliation Service, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Analysis of
Entity’s Systems, Controls, and Legal Com-
pliance’’; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–272. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–592, ‘‘Fare Evasion Decrimi-
nalization Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–273. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–593, ‘‘Sexual Abuse Statute of
Limitations Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–274. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–594, ‘‘Sports Wagering Lottery
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–275. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–579, ‘‘Foster Parent Training
Regulation Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–276. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–580, ‘‘Foreign-Government-
Owned Vacant and Blighted Building Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–277. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–581, ‘‘Women, Infants, and
Children Program Expansion Act of 2018’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–278. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–582, ‘‘Medical Necessity Re-
view Criteria Amendment Act of 2018’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–279. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–583, ‘‘CleanEnergy DC Omni-
bus Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–280. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.029 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1274 February 12, 2019
on D.C. Act 22–584, ‘‘Internet Sales Tax
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–281. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–585, ‘‘Northwest One Surplus
and Disposition Approval Omnibus Act of
2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–282. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–586, ‘‘Rental Housing Smoke-
Free Common Area Amendment Act of 2018’’;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–283. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–587, ‘‘Breast Density Screen-
ing and Notification Amendment Act of
2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–284. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–588, ‘‘Hidden Figures Way Des-
ignation Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–285. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–589, ‘‘Rhode Island Avenue
(RIA) Tax Increment Financing Act of 2018’’;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–286. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–590, ‘‘Paperwork Reduction
and Data Collection Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–287. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–591, ‘‘Fair Condominium
Withdrawal Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–288. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–595, ‘‘Health Insurance Mar-
ketplace Improvement Amendment Act of
2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–289. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of VOR Federal Airways V–170 and V–
219 in the Vicinity of Fairmont, MN’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0280))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–290. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Engelhard, NC’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0626))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–291. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Glen Ullin, ND’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0312))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–292. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace and Amendment of
Class D and E Airspace; Olympia, WA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–1012))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–293. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Atqasuk, AK’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0577))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–294. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace for the Following
Alaska Towns; Nuiqsut, AK; Perryville, AK;
Pilot Point, AK; and Point Lay, AK’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–0348))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–295. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; CFM International S.A. Tur-
bofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–1039)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–296. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Fokker Services B.V. Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0802)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–297. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Model
FALCON 2000 Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0809)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 8,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–298. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Aspen Avionics, Inc. Evo-
lution Flight Display’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–1085)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 8,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–299. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; ATR–GIE Avions de Trans-
port Regional Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0167)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 8,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–300. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Air Comm Corporation Air
Conditioning Systems’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–1217)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 8,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–301. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Zodiac Aero Evacuation Sys-
tems (Also Known as Air Cruisers Com-
pany)’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2016–9392)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–302. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Engine Alliance Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0938)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–303. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0791))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–304. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0641))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–305. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–1062))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–306. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.031 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1275
February 12, 2019
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters (Pre-
viously Eurocopter France) Helicopters’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0669))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–307. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters (Type Certificate
Previously Held By Eurocopter Deutschland
GmbH)’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2013–0555)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–308. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Defense and Space
S.A. (Formerly Known as Construcciones
Aeronauticas, S.A.) Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0805)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–309. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2016–4219)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–310. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0393)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–311. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–1066)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–312. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2017–0246)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–313. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0803)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–314. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0711)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 438. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for the termination
of certain retirement benefits for Members
of Congress, except the right to continue
participating in the Thrift Savings Plan, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 439. A bill to allow Members of Congress
to opt out of the Federal Employees Retire-
ment System, and allow Members who opt
out of the Federal Employees Retirement
System to continue to participate in the
Thrift Savings Plan; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, and Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 440. A bill to amend title 35, United
States Code, to provide that a patent owner
may not assert sovereign immunity as a de-
fense in certain actions before the United
States Patent and Trademark Office, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 441. A bill to require each agency to re-
peal or amend 2 or more rules before issuing
or amending a rule; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD):
S. 442. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to postpone the effective date of
high-impact rules pending judicial review; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY:
S. 443. A bill to modify the definition of an
antique firearm; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 444. A bill to provide a process for ensur-
ing the United States does not default on its
obligations; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 445. A bill to allow veterans to use, pos-
sess, or transport medical marijuana and to
discuss the use of medical marijuana with a
physician of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as authorized by a State or Indian
Tribe, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. STABENOW, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 446. A bill to authorize the Director of
the United States Geological Survey to con-
duct monitoring, assessment, science, and
research, in support of the binational fish-
eries within the Great Lakes Basin; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. REED, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. WARREN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. ROSEN, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. KING, Mr. COONS, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. HIRONO,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. MERKLEY,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 447. A bill to regulate large capacity am-
munition feeding devices; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. LEE,
Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina):
S. 448. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit fellowship and
stipend compensation to be saved in an indi-
vidual retirement account; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 449. A bill for the relief of Valent
Kolami; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 450. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot pro-
gram to expedite the onboarding process for
new medical providers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, to reduce the duration of
the hiring process for such medical pro-
viders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 451. A bill to modernize the National Air
Toxics Assessment, the Integrated Risk In-
formation System, and the Agency for Toxic
Substances and Disease Registry, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. PERDUE, and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 452. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 to provide a temporary exemption
for low-revenue issuers from certain auditor
attestation requirements; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mr. CRUZ, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. MORAN,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. SASSE,
and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 453. A bill to amend the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Act of 2010 to subject the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to
the regular appropriations process, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. HOEVEN, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 454. A bill to direct the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to establish the Office
of Rural Broadband, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 455. A bill to amend the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act to provide for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.033 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1276 February 12, 2019
Federal Exchange outreach and educational
activities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, and Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 456. A bill to provide for the adjustment
of status of certain nationals of Liberia to
that of lawful permanent residents, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. KING, and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 457. A bill to require that $1 coins issued
during 2019 honor President George H.W.
Bush and to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue bullion coins during 2019 in
honor of Barbara Bush; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 458. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
revise certain ethylene oxide emissions
standards under the Clean Air Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 459. A bill to protect the American peo-
ple from undetectable ghost guns, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. KING, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. JONES, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
YOUNG, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. GARDNER, and
Ms. SINEMA):
S. 460. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for
employer-provided education assistance to
employer payments of student loans; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. COONS, Mr. PERDUE, Mr.
JONES, Mr. WICKER, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. SANDERS, and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 461. A bill to strengthen the capacity
and competitiveness of historically Black
colleges and universities through robust pub-
lic-sector, private-sector, and community
partnerships and engagement, and for other
purposes; considered and passed.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 462. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to modify authorities relating
to the collective bargaining of employees in
the Veterans Health Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. REED, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. KING, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. BALDWIN,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
WARREN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY, Mr. UDALL,
Ms. ROSEN, Ms. HIRONO, and Ms.
SMITH):
S. 463. A bill to provide paid family and
medical leave benefits to certain individuals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. JONES, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
KAINE, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
HASSAN, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 464. A bill to require the treatment of a
lapse in appropriations as a mitigating con-
dition when assessing financial consider-
ations for security clearances, and for other
purposes; read the first time.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. PETERS, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 465. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to make
reforms to the benefits for Public Service Of-
ficers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. Res. 67. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate on the importance and
vitality of the United States alliances with
Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our
trilateral cooperation in the pursuit of
shared interests; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
PAUL, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. Con. Res. 2. A concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that any
United States-Saudi Arabia civilian nuclear
cooperation agreement must prohibit the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching
uranium or separating plutonium on its own
territory, in keeping with the strongest pos-
sible nonproliferation ‘‘gold standard’’; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 22
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
22, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for cov-
erage of dental services under the
Medicare program.
S. 61
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 61, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
to allow for the personal importation
of safe and affordable drugs from ap-
proved pharmacies in Canada.
S. 96
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 96, a bill to revise the au-
thorized route of the North Country
National Scenic Trail in northeastern
Minnesota and to extend the trail into
Vermont to connect with the Appa-
lachian National Scenic Trail, and for
other purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
178, a bill to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Mus-
lims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities in-
side and outside China.
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 191, a bill to
direct the Secretary of Defense to in-
clude in periodic health assessments,
separation history and physical exami-
nations, and other assessments an eval-
uation of whether a member of the
Armed Forces has been exposed to open
burn pits or toxic airborne chemicals,
and for other purposes.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 203, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
railroad track maintenance credit, and
for other purposes.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 211, a bill to amend the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent re-
sources vital to Indian victims of
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 225, a bill to provide for
partnerships among State and local
governments, regional entities, and the
private sector to preserve, conserve,
and enhance the visitor experience at
nationally significant battlefields of
the American Revolution, War of 1812,
and Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 237
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 237, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
permit nurse practitioners and physi-
cian assistants to satisfy the docu-
mentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of cer-
tain shoes for individuals with diabe-
tes.
S. 255
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
255, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include individuals
receiving Social Security Disability In-
surance benefits under the work oppor-
tunity credit, increase the work oppor-
tunity credit for vocational rehabilita-
tion referrals, qualified SSI recipients,
and qualified SSDI recipients, expand
the disabled access credit, and enhance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.025 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1277
February 12, 2019
the deduction for expenditures to re-
move architectural and transportation
barriers in the handicapped and elder-
ly.
S. 257
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 257, a bill to provide for
rental assistance for homeless or at-
risk Indian veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 278
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.
ALEXANDER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 278, a bill to require the Congres-
sional Budget Office to make publicly
available the fiscal and mathematical
models, data, and other details of com-
putations used in cost analysis and
scoring.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 317
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER), the Senator from
Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), the Sen-
ator from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) and
the Senator from Tennessee (Mrs.
BLACKBURN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 317, a bill to amend title XIX of
the Social Security Act to provide
States with the option of providing co-
ordinated care for children with com-
plex medical conditions through a
health home.
S. 336
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 336, a bill to direct
the Comptroller General of the United
States to submit a report on the re-
sponse of law enforcement agencies to
reports of missing or murdered Indians.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 382
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 382, a bill to authorize a
special resource study on the spread
vectors of chronic wasting disease in
Cervidae, and for other purposes.
S. 387
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 387, a bill to prohibit Federal
agencies and Federal contractors from
requesting that an applicant for em-
ployment disclose criminal history
record information before the appli-
cant has received a conditional offer,
and for other purposes.
S. 437
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 437, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the dol-
lar limitation on the deduction for
State and local taxes and restore the
39.6 percent individual income tax rate
bracket.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and
Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 456. A bill to provide for the ad-
justment of status of certain nationals
of Liberia to that of lawful permanent
residents, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am
reintroducing the Librarian Refugee
Immigration Fairness Act. I am
pleased to be joined in this effort by
Senators WHITEHOUSE, DURBIN, KLO-
BUCHAR, SMITH, CARDIN, and VAN HOL-
LEN.
In 1989, a seven-year civil war broke
out in Liberia that claimed the lives of
over 200,000 people, displaced over half
of the Liberian population, halted food
production, and destroyed the coun-
try’s infrastructure and economy. A
second civil war then followed from
1999 to 2003, further destabilizing the
country and creating more turmoil and
hardship for its people. Then from 2014
to 2016, Liberia faced an Ebola virus
outbreak that devastated the country’s
fragile health system and killed nearly
5,000 people. As a result of these trage-
dies, thousands of Liberians sought ref-
uge in the United States, living and
working here under the Temporary
Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred
Enforced Departure (DED) systems, ex-
tended under both Republican and
Democratic administrations beginning
in 1991.
The reality is that for more than a
quarter of a century, the United States
has been home to law-abiding and tax-
paying Liberians. They fled violence,
turmoil, and disease to come here.
Many now have children who are Amer-
ican citizens, some of whom serve in
the Armed Forces. They have worked
hard, played by the rules, paid their
dues, and submitted to rigorous vet-
ting.
But now, as a result of President
Trump’s decision to terminate DED for
Liberians, this population could face
the risk of deportation on March 31st.
Uprooting them now would be cruel
and harmful to them, their families,
employers, and communities.
And while things are improving on
the ground in Liberia, following the
first democratic transition of power in
decades, there are still serious con-
cerns about the country’s stability and
ability to maintain peace and deliver
essential services to its population. So
though few in number, the influx of Li-
berians from the United States could
overburden the country’s limited infra-
structure and reverse the progress that
the Liberian people and government
have made.
Given these challenges, we believe
that it is in the national security, for-
eign policy, and humanitarian interest
of the United States for this population
to remain here. I have introduced the
Liberian Refugee Immigration Fair-
ness Act in every Congress since 1999
because this community deserves a
long-term solution after decades of un-
certainty. This bill provides legal sta-
tus and a pathway to citizenship for
qualifying Liberians. I have worked
with several of my colleagues over the
years to include this pathway in com-
prehensive immigration reform bills
that passed this body only to die in the
House of Representatives.
The Liberian Refugee Immigration
Fairness Act would end the perpetual
limbo for Liberians here in the United
States and ensure our security inter-
ests in fostering Liberia’s continuing
postwar and post-Ebola recovery. This
legislation offers much-needed cer-
tainty for the Liberian community,
and it should be part of any bipartisan
and comprehensive solution for our
broken immigration system. I thank
Senators WHITEHOUSE, DURBIN, KLO-
BUCHAR, SMITH, CARDIN, and VAN HOL-
LEN for cosponsoring this bill and urge
our colleagues to join us to finally pro-
vide a pathway to citizenship for eligi-
ble Liberians who contribute so much
to our American community.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 458. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to revise certain ethylene oxide
emissions standards under the Clean
Air Act, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 458
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ETHYLENE OXIDE EMISSIONS STAND-
ARDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘Administrator’’) shall amend—
(1) subparts O and FFFF of part 63 of title
40, Code of Federal Regulations, to revise the
standards for the emission of ethylene oxide
under those subparts based on the results de-
scribed in the report of the National Center
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.028 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1278 February 12, 2019
for Environmental Assessment of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency entitled
‘‘Evaluation of the Inhalation Carcino-
genicity of Ethylene Oxide’’ and dated De-
cember 2016; and
(2) subpart O of part 63 of title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations, to apply maximum
achievable control technology (within the
meaning of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.)) requirements to chamber exhaust
vents.
(b) NOTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the Administrator learns of a violation
of the standards revised under subsection (a),
the Administrator shall notify the public of
the violation in a manner determined to be
appropriate by the Administrator.
(2) FAILURE TO NOTIFY.—If the Adminis-
trator fails to notify the public under para-
graph (1) by the end of the period described
in that paragraph, the Inspector General of
the Environmental Protection Agency shall
carry out an investigation to determine—
(A) the reason or reasons for which the Ad-
ministrator failed to notify the public;
(B) the public health risks associated with
the failure of the Administrator to notify
the public; and
(C) any steps the Administrator should
take to ensure the Administrator meets the
requirements described in paragraph (1) in
the future.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina
(for himself, Mr. COONS, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. JONES, Mr.
WICKER, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
SANDERS, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 461. A bill to strengthen the capac-
ity and competitiveness of historically
Black colleges and universities through
robust public-sector, private-sector,
and community partnerships and en-
gagement, and for other purposes; con-
sidered and passed.
S. 461
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘HBCU Pro-
pelling Agency Relationships Towards a New
Era of Results for Students Act’’ or the
‘‘HBCU PARTNERS Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) As many colleges and universities
across the country kept their doors closed to
African American applicants, historically
Black colleges and universities (referred to
in this section as ‘‘HBCUs’’) played a central
role in ensuring that African Americans
could attain an excellent education.
(2) Today, HBCUs continue to play a crit-
ical role in ensuring that African Americans,
and those of all races, can access high-qual-
ity educational opportunities.
(3) HBCUs enroll nearly 300,000 students, an
estimated 70 percent of whom come from
low-income backgrounds and 80 percent of
whom are African American.
(4) According to the National Association
For Equal Opportunity In Higher Education,
HBCUs make up just 3 percent of American
institutions of higher education but serve
more than a fifth of African American col-
lege students.
(5) A March 2017 report from the Education
Trust concluded that HBCUs have higher
completion rates for African American stu-
dents than other institutions serving similar
student populations.
(6) In 2014, HBCUs generated a total direct
economic impact of $14,800,000,000 and cre-
ated more than 134,000 jobs, according to a
study commissioned by the United Negro
College Fund (referred to in this section as
‘‘UNCF’’).
(7) According to the Thurgood Marshall
College Fund (referred to in this section as
‘‘TMCF’’), 40 percent of African American
Members of Congress, 50 percent of African
American lawyers, and 80 percent of African
American judges are graduates of HBCUs.
(8) According to UNCF, in 2013, HBCUs
awarded a quarter of all science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics bachelor’s de-
grees awarded to African Americans.
(9) According to TMCF, approximately 9
percent of all African American college stu-
dents attend HBCUs.
(10) According to UNCF, African American
graduates of HBCUs are almost twice as like-
ly as African Americans who graduated from
other institutions to report that their uni-
versity prepared them well for life.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this Act
are—
(1) to strengthen the capacity and competi-
tiveness of HBCUs to fulfill their principal
mission of equalizing educational oppor-
tunity, as described in section 301(b) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1051(b));
(2) to align HBCUs with the educational
and economic competitiveness priorities of
the United States;
(3) to provide students enrolled at HBCUs
with the highest quality educational and
economic opportunities;
(4) to bolster and facilitate productive
interactions between HBCUs and Federal
agencies; and
(5) to encourage HBCU participation in and
benefit from Federal programs, grants, con-
tracts, and cooperative agreements.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPLICABLE AGENCY.—The term ‘‘appli-
cable agency’’ means any Federal agency
designated by the Secretary, in accordance
with section 4.
(2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Exec-
utive Director’’ means—
(A) the Executive Director of the White
House Initiative on Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities, as designated by the
President; or
(B) if no such Executive Director is des-
ignated, such person as the President may
designate to lead the White House Initiative
on Historically Black Colleges and Univer-
sities.
(3) HBCU.—The term ‘‘HBCU’’ means a his-
torically Black college or university.
(4) HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGE OR UNI-
VERSITY.—The term ‘‘historically Black col-
lege or university’’ has the meaning given
the term ‘‘part B institution’’ under section
322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1061).
(5) PRESIDENT’S BOARD OF ADVISORS.—The
term ‘‘President’s Board of Advisors’’ means
the President’s Board of Advisors on histori-
cally Black colleges and universities.
(6) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Education.
(7) WHITE HOUSE INITIATIVE.—The term
‘‘White House Initiative’’ means the White
House Initiative on historically Black col-
leges and universities.
SEC. 4. STRENGTHENING HBCUS THROUGH FED-
ERAL AGENCY PLANS.
(a) DESIGNATING APPLICABLE AGENCIES.—
The Secretary, in consultation with the Ex-
ecutive Director, shall identify those Federal
agencies that regularly interact with HBCUs
and designate them as applicable agencies.
(b) SUBMITTING AGENCY PLANS.—Not later
than February 1 of each year, the head of
each applicable agency shall submit to the
Secretary and the Executive Director an an-
nual Agency Plan describing efforts to
strengthen the capacity of HBCUs to partici-
pate in relevant Federal programs and ini-
tiatives under the jurisdiction of the applica-
ble agency.
(c) FURTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION
AND ACCESSIBILITY.—The head of each appli-
cable agency shall submit each annual Agen-
cy Plan described in subsection (b) to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(d) AGENCY PLAN CONTENT.—Where appro-
priate, each Agency Plan shall, among other
things—
(1) establish how the applicable agency in-
tends to increase the capacity of HBCUs to
compete effectively for grants, contracts, or
cooperative agreements;
(2) identify Federal programs and initia-
tives under the jurisdiction of the applicable
agency where HBCUs are not well-rep-
resented;
(3) outline proposed efforts to improve
HBCUs’ participation in such programs and
initiatives in which they are underrep-
resented;
(4) describe any progress made towards ad-
vancing or achieving goals and efforts from
previous Agency Plans;
(5) encourage public-sector, private-sector,
and community involvement in improving
the capacity of HBCUs; and
(6) meet, where relevant, any additional
criteria established by the Secretary or the
White House Initiative.
(e) AGENCY ENGAGEMENT.—To help fulfill
the objectives of the Agency Plans, the head
of each applicable agency—
(1) may provide, as appropriate, technical
assistance and information to the Executive
Director to enhance communication with
HBCUs concerning the applicable agency’s
program activities and the preparation of ap-
plications or proposals for grants, contracts,
or cooperative agreements; and
(2) shall appoint a senior official to report
directly to the agency head on the applicable
agency’s progress under this section.
SEC. 5. PRESIDENT’S BOARD OF ADVISORS ON
HBCUS.
(a) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
President’s Board of Advisors on historically
Black colleges and universities in the De-
partment of Education or, if the President so
elects, within the Executive Office of the
President.
(2) FUNDING FROM ED.—Except as provided
in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall provide
funding and administrative support for the
President’s Board of Advisors, subject to the
availability of appropriations.
(3) FUNDING FROM THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF
THE PRESIDENT.—If the President elects to lo-
cate the President’s Board of Advisors with-
in the Executive Office of the President, the
Executive Office of the President shall pro-
vide funding and administrative support for
the President’s Board of Advisors, subject to
the availability of appropriations.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The President shall ap-
point not more than 23 members to the
President’s Board of Advisors, and the Sec-
retary and Executive Director or their des-
ignees shall serve as ex officio members. The
President shall designate one member of the
President’s Board of Advisors to serve as its
Chair, who shall help direct the Board’s work
in coordination with the Secretary and in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.035 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1279
February 12, 2019
consultation with the Executive Director.
The Chair shall also consult with the Execu-
tive Director regarding the time and loca-
tion of meetings of the President’s Board of
Advisors, which shall take place not less fre-
quently than once every 6 months. Members
of the President’s Board of Advisors shall
serve without compensation, but shall be re-
imbursed for travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by
law. Insofar as the Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) may apply to the
Board, any functions of the President under
such Act, except for those of reporting to the
Congress, shall be performed by the Chair, in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.
(c) MISSION AND FUNCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent’s Board of Advisors shall advise the
President, through the White House Initia-
tive, on all matters pertaining to strength-
ening the educational capacity of HBCUs. In
particular, the President’s Board of Advisors
shall advise the President in the following
areas:
(1) Improving the identity, visibility, dis-
tinctive capabilities, and overall competi-
tiveness of HBCUs.
(2) Engaging the philanthropic, business,
government, military, homeland-security,
and education communities in a national
dialogue regarding new HBCU programs and
initiatives.
(3) Improving the ability of HBCUs to re-
main fiscally secure institutions that can as-
sist the Nation in achieving its educational
goals and in advancing the interests of all
Americans.
(4) Elevating the public awareness of, and
fostering appreciation of, HBCUs.
(5) Encouraging public-private investments
in HBCUs.
(6) Improving government-wide strategic
planning related to HBCU competitiveness to
align Federal resources and provide the con-
text for decisions about HBCU partnerships,
investments, performance goals, priorities,
human capital development and budget plan-
ning.
(d) REPORT.—The President’s Board of Ad-
visors shall report annually to the President
on the Board’s progress in carrying out its
duties under this section.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. JONES, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 464. A bill to require the treatment
of a lapse in appropriations as a miti-
gating condition when assessing finan-
cial considerations for security clear-
ances, and for other purposes; read the
first time.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the Protecting Em-
ployees Security Clearances Act of 2019
(PESCA). I am pleased to have Sen-
ators LEAHY, JONES, BALDWIN, KAINE,
FEINSTEIN, HIRONO, KLOBUCHAR, DUR-
BIN, SHAHEEN, CORTEZ MASTO, HASSAN,
and VAN HOLLEN as cosponsors. Our
measure would protect federal employ-
ees and contractors from losing their
security clearances due to financial
reasons, such as poor credit scores,
that are attributable to a lapse in fed-
eral appropriations. The bill directs the
Security Executive Agent to ensure
that a lapse in appropriations (includ-
ing the one that ended last month) is
considered as a mitigating factor for
initial or continued security clearance
eligibility during the adjudication
process. More specifically, the bill
states that ‘‘No head of any agency
may revoke the national security eligi-
bility of a covered employee because of
a reduction in the credit score or nega-
tive information in a consumer credit
file of the covered employee that is at-
tributable to disrupted income pay-
ments as a result of a lapse in appro-
priations.’’
Nearly 80 percent of Americans live
from one paycheck to the next. They
cannot afford to miss even a single
paycheck. Federal workers and con-
tractors are no different. ‘‘Excepted’’
employees—those individuals who are
compelled to work without pay during
a shutdown—are guaranteed retro-
active pay. The Government Employee
Fair Treatment Act (Public Law 116–1),
which I authored, now guarantees ret-
roactive pay for furloughed federal
workers. I have co-sponsored S. 162,
Senator SMITH’s bill to provide retro-
active pay for lower wage contractor
employees. Currently, there is no guar-
antee that contractor employees will
be paid after a shutdown ends.
Many federal workers and contrac-
tors are subject to high security stand-
ards that include rigorous and routine
financial background checks. Missing
payments on debts could create delays
in securing or renewing security clear-
ances. We shouldn’t punish these hard-
working, patriotic Americans because
they are forced to go without pay dur-
ing a shutdown they bear no responsi-
bility for causing. Providing retro-
active pay is the right and fair thing to
do, but forcing these individuals to
miss one or more paychecks causes real
financial harm. At a minimum, their
security clearances shouldn’t be jeop-
ardized as a result.
Last month, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation Agents Association
(FBIAA) published a report entitled,
‘‘Voices From The Field: FBI Agent
Accounts of the Real Consequences of
the Government Shutdown.’’ The re-
port warned of the dire national secu-
rity consequences of the shutdown. It
also documented the financial hard-
ships FBIAA members were facing.
Two comments from the FBIAA’s Cen-
tral Region summed up the situation.
One Agent wrote, ‘‘My wife and I are
both FBI employees who were recently
transferred to a new city and finally
bought our first home. Now we can’t
pay the mortgage for it. We contacted
our lender, and they are refusing to
work with us. They don’t want our
‘Hardship Letter’, they want money,
period.’’ Another wrote, ‘‘There have
been several employees who have got-
ten zero assistance from their mort-
gage lenders and banks regarding home
and car loans and still have to make
payments on time or get penalized.
They are truly struggling to make ends
meet.’’
Last December, when President
Trump met with Leader SCHUMER and
soon-to-be Speaker PELOSI, he boasted
about shutting the government down,
saying, ‘‘I will take the mantle. I will
be the one to shut it down.’’ While
President Trump was proud ‘‘to take
the mantle,’’ innocent victims were
taking it on the chin. Here we are, less
than five days away from another po-
tential shutdown. I earnestly hope we
can avoid another shutdown. But in the
interim, we urgently need to mitigate
the real harm federal workers and con-
tractor employees suffer when they are
forced to go without their pay. Passing
PESCA is one way to do that. Just 13
days elapsed between the time I intro-
duced the Government Employee Fair
Treatment Act and President Trump
signed it into law. I hope we can act
with the same alacrity with respect to
PESCA.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 67—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE ON THE IMPORTANCE
AND VITALITY OF THE UNITED
STATES ALLIANCES WITH JAPAN
AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA,
AND OUR TRILATERAL CO-
OPERATION IN THE PURSUIT OF
SHARED INTERESTS
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. MARKEY) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 67
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea share comprehensive and dynamic
partnerships and personal friendships rooted
in shared interests and the common values of
freedom, democracy, and free market econo-
mies;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are all free societies com-
mitted to the principles of inclusive democ-
racy, respect for human potential, and the
belief that the peaceful spread of these prin-
ciples will result in a safer and brighter fu-
ture for all of mankind;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are indispensable partners
in tackling global challenges and have
pledged significant support for efforts to
counter violent extremism, combat the pro-
liferation of weapons of mass destruction,
prevent piracy, improve global health and
energy security, promote human rights, ad-
dress climate change, contribute to eco-
nomic development around the world, and
assist the victims of conflict and disaster
worldwide;
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea all share a commitment to free and
open markets, high standards for the free
flow of commerce and trade, and the estab-
lishment of an inclusive, transparent, and
sustainable architecture for regional and
global trade and development;
Whereas the United States-Japan and the
United States-Republic of Korea alliances
are the foundation of regional stability in
Asia, including against the threat posed by
the regime in Pyongyang;
Whereas cooperation between and among
our nations spans economic, energy, diplo-
matic, security, and cultural spheres;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.037 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1280 February 12, 2019
Whereas the United States and Japan es-
tablished diplomatic relations on March 31,
1854, with the signing of the Treaty of Peace
and Amity;
Whereas the relationship between the peo-
ples of the United States and the Republic of
Korea stretches back to Korea’s Chosun Dy-
nasty, when the United States and Korea es-
tablished diplomatic relations under the 1882
Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and
Navigation;
Whereas 2019 marks the 74th anniversary of
the end of World War II, a conflict in which
the United States and Japan were enemies,
and the strength of the United States-Japan
alliance is a testament to the ability of great
countries to overcome the past and to work
together to create a more secure and pros-
perous future;
Whereas the United States-Korea alliance
was forged in blood, with United States mili-
tary casualties during the Korean War of ap-
proximately 36,574 killed and more than
103,284 wounded, and with Republic of Korea
casualties of more than 217,000 soldiers
killed, more than 291,000 soldiers missing,
and over 1,000,000 civilians killed or missing;
Whereas, for the past 70 years, the partner-
ship between the United States and Japan
has played a vital role, both in Asia and
globally, in ensuring peace, stability, and
economic development;
Whereas, approximately 50,000 United
States military personnel serve in Japan,
along with some of the United States’ most
advanced defense assets, including the 7th
Fleet and the USS Ronald Reagan, the only
United States aircraft carrier to be
homeported outside the United States;
Whereas, since the Mutual Defense Treaty
Between the United States and the Republic
of Korea, signed in Washington on October 1,
1953, and ratified by the Senate on January
26, 1954, United States military personnel
have maintained a continuous presence on
the Korean Peninsula, and approximately
28,500 United States troops are stationed in
the Republic of Korea in 2019;
Whereas the United States and the Repub-
lic of Korea have stood alongside each other
in the four major wars the United States has
fought outside Korea since World War II—in
Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan, and
Iraq;
Whereas Japan is the fourth-largest United
States trading partner and together with the
United States represents 30 percent of global
Gross Domestic Product, and Japanese firms
have invested $469,000,000,000 in the United
States;
Whereas, the economic relationship be-
tween the United States and its sixth-largest
trading partner, the Republic of Korea, has
been facilitated by the United States-Korea
Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), which en-
tered into force on March 15, 2012, and was
amended as of January 1, 2019, includes
358,000 jobs in the United States that are di-
rectly related to exports to the Republic of
Korea, and has resulted in more than
$40,000,000,000 in investments by Korean
firms in the United States;
Whereas Japan and the Republic of Korea
stand as strong partners of the United States
in efforts to ensure maritime security and
freedom of navigation, commerce, and over-
flight and to uphold respect for the rule of
law and to oppose the use of coercion, in-
timidation, or force to change the regional
or global status quo, including in the mari-
time domains of the Indo-Pacific, which are
among the busiest waterways in the world;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are committed to working
together towards a world where the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic of Korea (in this
preamble referred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) does
not threaten global peace and security with
its weapons of mass destruction, missile pro-
liferation, and illicit activities, and where
the DPRK respects human rights and its peo-
ple can live in freedom;
Whereas section 211 of the North Korea
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9231; Public Law 114–122) ex-
presses the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent ‘‘should seek to strengthen high-level
trilateral mechanisms for discussion and co-
ordination of policy toward North Korea be-
tween the Government of the United States,
the Government of South Korea, and the
Government of Japan’’;
Whereas the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409) underscores
the importance of trilateral defense coopera-
tion and enforcement of multilateral sanc-
tions against North Korea and calls for reg-
ular consultation with Congress on the sta-
tus of such efforts;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea have made great strides in
promoting trilateral cooperation and defense
partnership, including ministerial meetings,
information sharing, and cooperation on bal-
listic missile defense exercises to counter
North Korean provocations;
Whereas Japanese Americans and Korean
Americans have made invaluable contribu-
tions to the security, prosperity, and diver-
sity of our Nation, including service as our
elected representatives in the Senate and in
the House of Representatives; and
Whereas the United States Government
looks forward to continuing to deepen our
enduring partnerships with Japan and the
Republic of Korea on economic, security, and
cultural issues, as well as embracing new op-
portunities for bilateral and trilateral part-
nerships and cooperation on emerging re-
gional and global challenges: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate reaffirms the im-
portance of—
(1) the vital role of the alliances between
the United States and Japan and the United
States and the Republic of Korea in pro-
moting peace, stability, and security in the
Indo-Pacific region, including through
United States extended deterrence, and reaf-
firms the commitment of the United States
to defend Japan, including all areas under
the administration of Japan, under Article V
of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Se-
curity Between the United States of America
and Japan, and to defend the Republic of
Korea under Article III of the Mutual De-
fense Treaty Between the United States and
the Republic of Korea;
(2) a constructive and forward-looking re-
lationship between Japan and the Republic
of Korea for United States diplomatic, eco-
nomic, and security interests and for open
and inclusive architecture to support the de-
velopment of a secure, stable, and prosperous
Indo-Pacific region;
(3) strengthening and broadening diplo-
matic, economic, security, and people-to-
people ties between and among the United
States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea;
(4) developing and implementing a strategy
to deepen the trilateral diplomatic and secu-
rity cooperation between the United States,
Japan, and the Republic of Korea, including
through diplomatic engagement, regional de-
velopment, energy security, scientific and
health partnerships, educational and cul-
tural exchanges, missile defense, intel-
ligence-sharing, space, cyber, and other dip-
lomatic and defense-related initiatives;
(5) trilateral cooperation with members of
the United Nations Security Council and
other Member States to fully and effectively
enforce sanctions against the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (in this resolu-
tion referred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) and evalu-
ate additional and meaningful new measures
toward the DPRK under Article 41 of the
United Nations Charter;
(6) trilateral cooperation to support and
uphold a rules-based trade and economic
order in the Indo-Pacific region, including
the empowerment of women, which is vital
for the prosperity of all our nations;
(7) supporting the expansion of academic
and cultural exchanges among the three na-
tions, especially efforts to encourage Japa-
nese and Korean students to study at univer-
sities in the United States, and vice versa, to
deepen people-to-people ties; and
(8) continued cooperation among the gov-
ernments of the United States, Japan, and
the Republic of Korea to promote human
rights.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 2—EXPRESSING THE SENSE
OF CONGRESS THAT ANY
UNITED STATES-SAUDI ARABIA
CIVILIAN NUCLEAR COOPERA-
TION AGREEMENT MUST PRO-
HIBIT THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI
ARABIA FROM ENRICHING URA-
NIUM OR SEPARATING PLUTO-
NIUM ON ITS OWN TERRITORY,
IN KEEPING WITH THE STRONG-
EST POSSIBLE NONPROLIFERA-
TION ‘‘GOLD STANDARD’’
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
PAUL, and Mr. MARKEY) submitted the
following concurrent resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations:
S. CON. RES. 2
Whereas, on May 21, 2009, the United States
and the United Arab Emirates signed a bilat-
eral agreement pursuant to section 123 of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2153),
establishing cooperation on civilian nuclear
programs in which the United Arab Emirates
agreed that it ‘‘shall not possess sensitive
nuclear facilities within its territory or oth-
erwise engage in activities within its terri-
tory for, or relating to, the enrichment or re-
processing of material, or for the alternation
in form or content (except by irradiation or
further irradiation or, if agreed by the Par-
ties, post-irradiation examination) of pluto-
nium, uranium 233, high enriched uranium,
or irradiated source or special fissionable
material’’;
Whereas the civil nuclear cooperation
agreement between the United States and
the United Arab Emirates further obligates
the United Arab Emirates to bring into force
its Additional Protocol to its IAEA Safe-
guards Agreement before the United States
licenses ‘‘exports of nuclear material, equip-
ment, components, or technology’’ pursuant
to the agreement; and
Whereas this agreement became known as
the first ‘‘gold standard’’ civil nuclear agree-
ment and was lauded as a step toward estab-
lishing a precedent for strong nonprolifera-
tion standards on the Arabian Peninsula:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That it is the sense
of Congress that any United States-Saudi
Arabia civilian nuclear cooperation agree-
ment under section 123 of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2153), commonly known
as a ‘‘123 Agreement’’, concluded in the fu-
ture should prohibit the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia from enriching uranium or separating
plutonium on Saudi Arabian territory in
keeping with the strongest possible non-
proliferation ‘‘gold standard’’ as well as re-
quire the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to bring
into force the Additional Protocol with the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.041 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1281
February 12, 2019
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 188. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the management of
the natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 189. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 188. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11llll. IDENTIFICATION OF FEDERAL
LAND SUITABLE FOR DISPOSAL.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED FEDERAL LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered Fed-
eral land’’ means any Federal land under the
jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘covered Fed-
eral land’’ does not include a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Secretary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of the Interior, with re-
spect to land under the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Interior; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(b) SURVEY OF FEDERAL LAND.—As soon as
practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary concerned shall com-
plete a survey of covered Federal land to
identify any covered Federal land that is
suitable for disposal by the Secretary con-
cerned by competitive sale.
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—On completion
of the survey under subsection (b), the Sec-
retary concerned shall submit to the appro-
priate committees of Congress a report
that—
(1) describes the results of the survey; and
(2) identifies at least 10 percent of the total
acreage of covered Federal land surveyed by
the Secretary concerned that is suitable for
disposal by the Secretary concerned by com-
petitive sale.
SA 189. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of section 3001, add the fol-
lowing:
(f) ACQUISITION RESTRICTIONS.—Section
200306(b) of title 54, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Ap-
propriations’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Appropriations’’;
(2) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), in
the second sentence, by striking ‘‘Appropria-
tions’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) PREACQUISITION.—Appropriations’’;
and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ZERO NET GAIN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Appropriations from the
Fund pursuant to this section shall not be
used for acquisition unless the acquisition
results in a zero net gain of Federal land.
‘‘(B) APPLICATION.—The limitation under
subparagraph (A) shall apply only to an ac-
quisition of land in a State more than 50 per-
cent of the land of which is Federal land.’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
have 3 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, February 12,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘United States Indo-Pacific
Command and United States Forces
Korea in review of the Defense Author-
ization Request for fiscal year 2020 and
the Future Years Defense Program’’.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, February 12,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘United States Indo-Pacific
Command and United States Forces
Korea in review of the Defense Author-
ization Request for fiscal year 2020 and
the Future Years Defense Program’’.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, February 12, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Managing Pain During the Opioid
Crisis.’’
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Tom Schaff, a
staff member of the Energy and Nat-
ural Resources Committee, be granted
floor privileges for the duration of the
116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HBCU PROPELLING AGENCY RELA-
TIONSHIPS TOWARDS A NEW
ERA OF RESULTS FOR STU-
DENTS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 461.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 461) to strengthen the capacity
and competitiveness of historically Black
colleges and universities through robust pub-
lic-sector, private-sector, and community
partnerships and engagement, and for other
purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the bill
be considered read a third time.
Ms. MCSALLY. Without objection, it
is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill having been
read the third time, the question is,
Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 461) was passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 461
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘HBCU Pro-
pelling Agency Relationships Towards a New
Era of Results for Students Act’’ or the
‘‘HBCU PARTNERS Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) As many colleges and universities
across the country kept their doors closed to
African American applicants, historically
Black colleges and universities (referred to
in this section as ‘‘HBCUs’’) played a central
role in ensuring that African Americans
could attain an excellent education.
(2) Today, HBCUs continue to play a crit-
ical role in ensuring that African Americans,
and those of all races, can access high-qual-
ity educational opportunities.
(3) HBCUs enroll nearly 300,000 students, an
estimated 70 percent of whom come from
low-income backgrounds and 80 percent of
whom are African American.
(4) According to the National Association
For Equal Opportunity In Higher Education,
HBCUs make up just 3 percent of American
institutions of higher education but serve
more than a fifth of African American col-
lege students.
(5) A March 2017 report from the Education
Trust concluded that HBCUs have higher
completion rates for African American stu-
dents than other institutions serving similar
student populations.
(6) In 2014, HBCUs generated a total direct
economic impact of $14,800,000,000 and cre-
ated more than 134,000 jobs, according to a
study commissioned by the United Negro
College Fund (referred to in this section as
‘‘UNCF’’).
(7) According to the Thurgood Marshall
College Fund (referred to in this section as
‘‘TMCF’’), 40 percent of African American
Members of Congress, 50 percent of African
American lawyers, and 80 percent of African
American judges are graduates of HBCUs.
(8) According to UNCF, in 2013, HBCUs
awarded a quarter of all science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics bachelor’s de-
grees awarded to African Americans.
(9) According to TMCF, approximately 9
percent of all African American college stu-
dents attend HBCUs.
(10) According to UNCF, African American
graduates of HBCUs are almost twice as like-
ly as African Americans who graduated from
other institutions to report that their uni-
versity prepared them well for life.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this Act
are—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.042 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1282 February 12, 2019
(1) to strengthen the capacity and competi-
tiveness of HBCUs to fulfill their principal
mission of equalizing educational oppor-
tunity, as described in section 301(b) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1051(b));
(2) to align HBCUs with the educational
and economic competitiveness priorities of
the United States;
(3) to provide students enrolled at HBCUs
with the highest quality educational and
economic opportunities;
(4) to bolster and facilitate productive
interactions between HBCUs and Federal
agencies; and
(5) to encourage HBCU participation in and
benefit from Federal programs, grants, con-
tracts, and cooperative agreements.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPLICABLE AGENCY.—The term ‘‘appli-
cable agency’’ means any Federal agency
designated by the Secretary, in accordance
with section 4.
(2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Exec-
utive Director’’ means—
(A) the Executive Director of the White
House Initiative on Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities, as designated by the
President; or
(B) if no such Executive Director is des-
ignated, such person as the President may
designate to lead the White House Initiative
on Historically Black Colleges and Univer-
sities.
(3) HBCU.—The term ‘‘HBCU’’ means a his-
torically Black college or university.
(4) HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGE OR UNI-
VERSITY.—The term ‘‘historically Black col-
lege or university’’ has the meaning given
the term ‘‘part B institution’’ under section
322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1061).
(5) PRESIDENT’S BOARD OF ADVISORS.—The
term ‘‘President’s Board of Advisors’’ means
the President’s Board of Advisors on histori-
cally Black colleges and universities.
(6) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Education.
(7) WHITE HOUSE INITIATIVE.—The term
‘‘White House Initiative’’ means the White
House Initiative on historically Black col-
leges and universities.
SEC. 4. STRENGTHENING HBCUS THROUGH FED-
ERAL AGENCY PLANS.
(a) DESIGNATING APPLICABLE AGENCIES.—
The Secretary, in consultation with the Ex-
ecutive Director, shall identify those Federal
agencies that regularly interact with HBCUs
and designate them as applicable agencies.
(b) SUBMITTING AGENCY PLANS.—Not later
than February 1 of each year, the head of
each applicable agency shall submit to the
Secretary and the Executive Director an an-
nual Agency Plan describing efforts to
strengthen the capacity of HBCUs to partici-
pate in relevant Federal programs and ini-
tiatives under the jurisdiction of the applica-
ble agency.
(c) FURTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION
AND ACCESSIBILITY.—The head of each appli-
cable agency shall submit each annual Agen-
cy Plan described in subsection (b) to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(d) AGENCY PLAN CONTENT.—Where appro-
priate, each Agency Plan shall, among other
things—
(1) establish how the applicable agency in-
tends to increase the capacity of HBCUs to
compete effectively for grants, contracts, or
cooperative agreements;
(2) identify Federal programs and initia-
tives under the jurisdiction of the applicable
agency where HBCUs are not well-rep-
resented;
(3) outline proposed efforts to improve
HBCUs’ participation in such programs and
initiatives in which they are underrep-
resented;
(4) describe any progress made towards ad-
vancing or achieving goals and efforts from
previous Agency Plans;
(5) encourage public-sector, private-sector,
and community involvement in improving
the capacity of HBCUs; and
(6) meet, where relevant, any additional
criteria established by the Secretary or the
White House Initiative.
(e) AGENCY ENGAGEMENT.—To help fulfill
the objectives of the Agency Plans, the head
of each applicable agency—
(1) may provide, as appropriate, technical
assistance and information to the Executive
Director to enhance communication with
HBCUs concerning the applicable agency’s
program activities and the preparation of ap-
plications or proposals for grants, contracts,
or cooperative agreements; and
(2) shall appoint a senior official to report
directly to the agency head on the applicable
agency’s progress under this section.
SEC. 5. PRESIDENT’S BOARD OF ADVISORS ON
HBCUS.
(a) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
President’s Board of Advisors on historically
Black colleges and universities in the De-
partment of Education or, if the President so
elects, within the Executive Office of the
President.
(2) FUNDING FROM ED.—Except as provided
in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall provide
funding and administrative support for the
President’s Board of Advisors, subject to the
availability of appropriations.
(3) FUNDING FROM THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF
THE PRESIDENT.—If the President elects to lo-
cate the President’s Board of Advisors with-
in the Executive Office of the President, the
Executive Office of the President shall pro-
vide funding and administrative support for
the President’s Board of Advisors, subject to
the availability of appropriations.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The President shall ap-
point not more than 23 members to the
President’s Board of Advisors, and the Sec-
retary and Executive Director or their des-
ignees shall serve as ex officio members. The
President shall designate one member of the
President’s Board of Advisors to serve as its
Chair, who shall help direct the Board’s work
in coordination with the Secretary and in
consultation with the Executive Director.
The Chair shall also consult with the Execu-
tive Director regarding the time and loca-
tion of meetings of the President’s Board of
Advisors, which shall take place not less fre-
quently than once every 6 months. Members
of the President’s Board of Advisors shall
serve without compensation, but shall be re-
imbursed for travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by
law. Insofar as the Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) may apply to the
Board, any functions of the President under
such Act, except for those of reporting to the
Congress, shall be performed by the Chair, in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.
(c) MISSION AND FUNCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent’s Board of Advisors shall advise the
President, through the White House Initia-
tive, on all matters pertaining to strength-
ening the educational capacity of HBCUs. In
particular, the President’s Board of Advisors
shall advise the President in the following
areas:
(1) Improving the identity, visibility, dis-
tinctive capabilities, and overall competi-
tiveness of HBCUs.
(2) Engaging the philanthropic, business,
government, military, homeland-security,
and education communities in a national
dialogue regarding new HBCU programs and
initiatives.
(3) Improving the ability of HBCUs to re-
main fiscally secure institutions that can as-
sist the Nation in achieving its educational
goals and in advancing the interests of all
Americans.
(4) Elevating the public awareness of, and
fostering appreciation of, HBCUs.
(5) Encouraging public-private investments
in HBCUs.
(6) Improving government-wide strategic
planning related to HBCU competitiveness to
align Federal resources and provide the con-
text for decisions about HBCU partnerships,
investments, performance goals, priorities,
human capital development and budget plan-
ning.
(d) REPORT.—The President’s Board of Ad-
visors shall report annually to the President
on the Board’s progress in carrying out its
duties under this section.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SUPPORTING THE OBSERVATION
OF NATIONAL TRAFFICKING AND
MODERN SLAVERY PREVENTION
MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 36 and
that the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 36) supporting the ob-
servation of National Trafficking and Mod-
ern Slavery Prevention Month during the pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2019, and ending
on February 1, 2019, to raise awareness of,
and opposition to, human trafficking and
modern slavery.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 36) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of January 31,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST TIME
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk.
I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.014 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1283
February 12, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 464) to require the treatment of
a lapse in appropriations as a mitigating
condition when assessing financial consider-
ations for security clearances, and for other
purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for a second
reading, and in order to place the bill
on the calendar under the provisions
rule XIV, I object to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will receive its second read-
ing on the next legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 13, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 13; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Barr nomination; finally,
that all time during recess, adjourn-
ment, morning business, and leader re-
marks count postcloture on the Barr
nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order following the re-
marks of Senator WHITEHOUSE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Thank you,
Leader.
Madam President, as I was wrapping
up, I was pointing out that at some
point there is likely to be a report that
comes out of the special counsel’s in-
vestigation, and there will be some ma-
terial in that report that is properly
stripped out of it before it is provided
to the public.
The two things I concede are proper
to strip out of it are classified national
security information that could reveal
sources and methods of our intelligence
operations, and the second is private
and personal information, particularly
related to witnesses, that is not nec-
essary to the public’s understanding of
the report—people’s phone numbers, or
email addresses, or other private infor-
mation. Those are very clearly appro-
priate to redact from the report.
There are two other ways in which
the Department of Justice could go
into the Mueller report and just gouge
great tranches of material out. One
would be if an assertion by the Presi-
dent was made of executive privilege
and if, without any contest or without
any formative review or court review,
the Attorney General simply agreed
with the assertion of executive privi-
lege by the President.
We have seen these extreme, almost
wild, unlimited assertions of executive
privilege by members of the Trump ad-
ministration. There has never been any
discipline or proper process about it.
There has never been any enforcement.
So it is a wide-open field for mischief if
the President decides that big chunks
of the Mueller report shouldn’t be dis-
closed to the public because he asserts
executive privilege. Then Attorney
General Barr says: Good enough for
me. I am not going to let any of that
go to the public or to Congress.
That, to me, is a problem. That door
is wide open, and it is the reason I have
my opposition to this particular nomi-
nee.
There is a longstanding tradition at
the Department of Justice that when
you are undertaking a criminal inves-
tigation and you develop, in the course
of that investigation, derogatory infor-
mation about people—particularly
about uncharged people—you don’t get
to just spill that out into the public
record.
The bad deed that was done by Jim
Comey was to violate that Department
rule and disclose derogatory investiga-
tive information about an uncharged
person—specifically, Mrs. Clinton.
That violated longstanding procedures
and principles in the Department and
kicked up a lot of criticism, including
by me right at the time and since and
also by Attorney General Barr. He
stands, I think, in the best traditions
of the Department to condemn the re-
lease of derogatory investigative infor-
mation about an uncharged person.
The rule as a prosecutor is, if you are
going to say it, save your pleadings.
Charge the guy. Put it in the indict-
ment. Put it in the criminal informa-
tion. Then defense can fairly react.
Then you are accountable to the court
for what you are saying, and then there
is some discipline to it, but you don’t
get to describe unrelated or uncharged
conduct that just happens to be
derogatory.
That actually continues on through
the whole criminal case. You are not
supposed to do it at any point. If you
have something to say about the evi-
dence in the case, you plead it in a
pleading before the court; otherwise,
you keep your mouth shut, and you
stand on your pleadings.
The problem comes when that rule
gets applied in this case, and here is
the circumstance: The Mueller report
comes down, and it is full of derogatory
information about the President and
the people around him. But because the
Office of Legal Counsel, as I described
earlier, has decided that you can’t
charge a sitting President with a
crime, now that President is an un-
charged person—not because there
wasn’t an indictment to be brought
against him, not because he didn’t en-
gage in criminal conduct, not because
the government wouldn’t ordinarily
prosecute that case to the full extent
of the law, but simply because of this
little policy at the Office of Legal
Counsel that you can’t indict a sitting
President—one that has never been
tested in court and one that I think
will fare badly in court if you look at
the precedence of Nixon and Clinton
and others.
So now, with the President an un-
charged person, do you then call in this
doctrine and say: Hey, all derogatory
investigative information about this
uncharged person is now no longer
amenable to disclosure to Congress or
the public.
It is a complicated situation, but it is
easy to get there, and once you are
there, the answer ought to be ‘‘Well,
obviously no,’’ but I couldn’t get that
answer. I couldn’t get a straight an-
swer. Over and over again, despite the
terrific top-line assertions Mr. BARR
made, when you drilled down into the
weeds, you couldn’t get a straight an-
swer, and when you tried, very often it
was an easy answer to give, and you
couldn’t get that easy, straight answer.
In those cases, it was a choice between
the policies and the protocols and the
propriety of the Department of Justice
versus the political interests of the
President’s.
If I can’t get a good answer to a sim-
ple hearing question that properly puts
the weight where it belongs to support
the protocols and the procedures and
the propriety of the Department of
Justice, then when it is not so public
and when the pressure is really on and
when hard decisions have to be made,
it is impossible for me to believe that
he won’t lean toward yielding to the
President rather than defending and
honoring the Department. That, for
me, is enough reason to oppose this
nomination.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:13 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, February
13, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
RODNEY K. BROWN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION BOARD, FARM
CREDIT ADMINISTRATION, FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTO-
BER 13, 2024, VICE JEFFERY S. HALL, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
IAN PAUL STEFF, OF INDIANA, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE AND DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN COMMERCIAL SERVICE,
VICE ELIZABETH ERIN WALSH, RESIGNED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G12FE6.037 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1284 February 12, 2019
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
CHRISTOPHER SCOLESE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE DIREC-
TOR OF THE NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE. (NEW
POSITION)
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
MICHAEL G. BAILEY, OF ARIZONA, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE JOHN S. LEONARDO,
RESIGNED.
DREW H. WRIGLEY, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DA-
KOTA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE TIMOTHY Q.
PURDON, TERM EXPIRED.
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL PERSONNEL AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 5141:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. JOHN B. NOWELL, JR.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
TOLULOPE O. A. ADUROJA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ERICK L. JACKSON
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be major
JOSEPH J. FANTONY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
CHARITI D. PADEN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT TO
THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be colonel
DONALD W. RAKES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO
THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be colonel
RONNIE S. BARNES
STEVEN T. BRENCHLEY
DANNY K. COX
JOSEPH J. FRESCURA
MATTHEW J. GODFREY
STACY E. JOHNSON
FRANCIS R. MONTGOMERY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be major
JASON A. ANTHES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be major
CHARLES A. RILEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be major
RICHARD S. MCNUTT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND
7064:
To be major
LLOYD V. LOZADA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO
THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be colonel
JULIO ACOSTA
QUENTIN W. BATTISTI
CHARLES Q. BEATTY
MATTHEW P. BEILFUSS
JONATHAN S. EBBERT
GREGORY M. FARLEY
PAUL C. GRAVELY
MICHELLE L. HANNAH
MICHAEL S. HARTLEY
JEFFREY G. LAPIERRE
KATRINA E. LLOYD
ISAAC B. MARTINEZ
JAKOB Z. NORMAN
ZACHARY F. NORSWORTHY
JEFFREY M. NOVOTNY
TRACEY L. POIRIER
RYAN S. PRICE
APRIL L. SAPP
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
PETER D. ALLEN
MONICA S. CAMELO
CHRISTOPHER E. COX
RYAN A. CRANE
JENNIFER L. GORDON
ANTHONY J. HAYES
CONOR F. HYNES
IAN R. MCCASLIN
MARK L. MESSMER
ANDREW E. ROBIN
ERICA L. SKIPTON
ISAAC L. THEERMAN
CLAYTON T. VAUGHAN
ROBERT D. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
ROBERT G. GRAHAM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
LAURA C. GILSTRAP
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on Feb-
ruary 12, 2019 withdrawing from further
Senate consideration the following
nomination:
ANDREW F. MAUNZ, OF OHIO, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD FOR THE TERM OF
SEVEN YEARS EXPIRING MARCH 1, 2025, VICE MARK A.
ROBBINS, TERM EXPIRED, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SEN-
ATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A12FE6.018 S12FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E163
February 12, 2019
RECOGNIZING MARY HOEHN
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, February 12, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of a gifted educa-
tor, an outstanding coach and a genuine
treasure in the North St. Francois County R–
1 School District.
Mary Alice Hoehn was an art teacher at
North County High School in Bonne Terre for
36 years. She was in her 37th year of teach-
ing when she died suddenly on January 10,
2019.
Miss Hoehn taught longer in the district than
any other teacher before her. In August of
1982, with degrees from Jefferson College
and Southeast Missouri State University, she
entered the classroom. More than three dec-
ades later, she never talked of retiring. On her
last day in class, at the age of 60, she was
just as determined as ever to spark her stu-
dents’ creativity and show them the benefits of
a life dedicated to excellence. Miss Hoehn
was just as committed to the players she
coached for 34 years on the tennis courts.
She motivated her students to achieve their
potential. She encouraged them to overcome
their disappointments. She earned the respect
of her students because she respected them
as artists, athletes and young people with
dreams.
In tribute to her passion for teaching and
her unwavering dedication to her students, I
am privileged today to honor the late Mary
Hoehn before the United States House of
Representatives.
MOURNING THE PASSING AND
CELEBRATING THE EXTRAOR-
DINARY LIFE AND LEGACY OF
JOHN DAVID DINGELL, JR. OF
MICHIGAN, THE LONGEST SERV-
ING MEMBER IN THE HISTORY
OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, February 12, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to mourn the passing and commemorate the
remarkable life of Congressman John David
Dingell, Jr. of Michigan, who passed away on
February 7, 2019 at the age of 92.
John Dingell was one of the towering figures
in the history of the U.S. House of Represent-
atives and of our nation.
John Dingell served this House and this na-
tion with integrity, grace, intellect, and legisla-
tive mastery for nearly six decades; in fact his
retirement at the end of the 114th Congress
brought an end to the longest tenure of serv-
ice in the history of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives at 59 years and 21 days of serv-
ice, a record that is unlikely to be duplicated
or surpassed.
John Dingell was present at the creation
and played a major role in shaping virtually
every landmark piece of legislation of the last
half century, including the legislation creating
the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of
1965, the National Environmental Policy Act,
the Americans With Disabilities Act, Endan-
gered Species Act, the Clean Air Act, the Safe
Drinking Water Act, the Social Security
Amendments of 1965 which created Medicare,
and the Affordable Care Act to name just a
few.
As Chairman of the powerful Energy and
Commerce Committee for sixteen years, John
Dingell shepherded through to passage the
Endangered Species Act, the Clean Air Act
and the Safe Drinking Water Act, among other
pieces of legislation.
And for more than a half century, John Din-
gell honored the memory and passion of his
father and congressional predecessor—John
D. Dingell, Sr.—in introducing at the beginning
of each new Congress legislation providing for
universal healthcare.
His persistence was rewarded in 1965 when
he was chosen to preside as Speaker Pro
Tempore on the day the House passed the
legislation creating Medicare and Medicaid.
Madam Speaker, John Dingell’s service to
this institution began in 1938 when he became
a House page at 11 and he was in the cham-
ber on December 8, 1941, when President
Franklin Roosevelt announced that a state of
war existed between the United States and
Japan following the attack on Pearl Harbor.
A member of the Greatest Generation, John
Dingell enlisted in the U.S. Army during World
War II where he rose to the rank of Second
Lieutenant.
After the war, John Dingell went on to earn
his undergraduate degree in chemistry and
law degree from Georgetown University in
1949 and 1952, respectively.
After law school John Dingell returned to his
hometown of Detroit where he worked as a
Wayne County Assistant Prosecuting Attorney
before winning the special election in 1955 on
to fill the unexpired term of the congressional
seat that had been held by his late father
since 1933.
John Dingell was elected to a full term in
1956 and reelected to each of the succeeding
28 Congresses.
Madam Speaker, as we mourn the passing
of our friend and colleague, we also celebrate
a remarkable life of honorable and extraor-
dinary service to our nation.
As he reminded us in his farewell message
published after his passing, his work was not
done alone, and the fight to make ours a more
perfect union requires the work of Democrats
as well as Republicans, who put country over
party.
And, of course, John Dingell was forever
grateful for the love of his life, his wife DEBO-
RAH—who would be his partner the last forty
years of his life and carries on the proud Din-
gell family tradition of representing southeast
Michigan in the United States Congress.
I ask the House to observe a moment of si-
lence in memory of the Honorable John David
Dingell, Jr., of Michigan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12FE8.001 E12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D148
Tuesday, February 12, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed S. 47, National Resources Management Act, as amended.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1175–S1284
Measures Introduced: Twenty-eight bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 438–465,
S. Res. 67, and S. Con. Res. 2. Pages S1275–76
Measures Passed:
Natural Resources Management Act: By 92 yeas
to 8 nays (Vote No. 22), Senate passed S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural resources of
the United States, after taking action on the fol-
lowing amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S1178–86, S1186–S1265
Adopted:
Rubio/Scott (FL) Amendment No. 182 (to
Amendment No. 112), to give effect to more accu-
rate maps of units of the John H. Chafee Costal Bar-
rier Resources System that were produced by digital
mapping. Pages S1178, S1196
Murkowski Amendment No. 112 (to Amendment
No. 111), to modify the authorization period for the
Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic
Preservation program. Pages S1178, S1196
Murkowski/Manchin Modified Amendment No.
111, in the nature of a substitute. Pages S1178, S1196
Historically Black Colleges and Universities:
Senate passed S. 461, to strengthen the capacity and
competitiveness of historically Black colleges and
universities through robust public-sector, private-sec-
tor, and community partnerships and engagement.
Pages S1281–82
National Trafficking and Modern Slavery Pre-
vention Month: Committee on the Judiciary was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 36,
supporting the observation of National Trafficking
and Modern Slavery Prevention Month during the
period beginning on January 1, 2019, and ending on
February 1, 2019, to raise awareness of, and opposi-
tion to, human trafficking and modern slavery, and
the resolution was then agreed to. Page S1282
Barr Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of William Pelham
Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General, Depart-
ment of Justice. Pages S1265–69
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 55 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. 23), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S1266
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednes-
day, February 13, 2019; and that all time during re-
cess, adjournment, morning business, and Leader re-
marks count post-cloture on the nomination.
Page S1283
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Rodney K. Brown, of California, to be a Member
of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm
Credit Administration, for a term expiring October
13, 2024.
Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce and Director General of the
United States and Foreign Commercial Service.
Christopher Scolese, of New York, to be Director
of the National Reconnaissance Office.
Michael G. Bailey, of Arizona, to be United States
Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of
four years.
Drew H. Wrigley, of North Dakota, to be United
States Attorney for the District of North Dakota for
the term of four years.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S1283–84
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
Andrew F. Maunz, of Ohio, to be a Member of
the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12FE9.REC D12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D149
February 12, 2019
seven years expiring March 1, 2025, which was sent
to the Senate on January 16, 2019. Page S1284
Messages from the House: Page S1272
Measures Referred: Page S1272
Measures Read the First Time:
Pages S1272, S1282–83
Executive Communications: Pages S1272–75
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1276–77
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1277–80
Additional Statements: Page S1272
Amendments Submitted: Page S1281
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1281
Privileges of the Floor: Page S1281
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—23) Pages S1196, S1266
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:13 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
February 13, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1283.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded
open and closed hearings to examine the United
States Indo-Pacific Command and United States
Forces Korea in review of the Defense Authorization
Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, after receiving testimony from Ad-
miral Philip S. Davidson, USN, Commander, United
States Indo-Pacific Command, and General Robert
B. Abrams, USA, Commander, United Nations
Command/Combined Forces Command/United States
Forces Korea, both of the Department of Defense.
MANAGING PAIN
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine man-
aging pain during the opioid crisis, after receiving
testimony from Cindy Steinberg, Massachusetts Pain
Initiative, Lexington, on behalf of the U.S. Pain
Foundation; Halena Gazelka, Mayo Clinic Alix
School of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota; Andrew
Coop, University of Maryland School of Pharmacy,
Baltimore; and Anuradha Rao-Patel, Blue Cross and
Blue Shield of North Carolina, Durham.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 2 public
bills, H.R. 1151–1152, were introduced. Page H1525
Additional Cosponsors: Page H1525
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cunningham to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H1521
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. Dr. Dan C. Cummins, Capitol
Worship, Washington, DC. Page H1521
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:03 a.m.
Committee Meetings
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT’S MANAGEMENT
OF HOUSING CONTRACTS DURING THE
SHUTDOWN
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Trans-
portation, and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s
Management of Housing Contracts During the Shut-
down’’. Testimony was heard from Irv Dennis, Chief
Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban
Development; and Brian D. Montgomery, Acting
Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing and
Urban Development, and Assistant Secretary for
Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12FE9.REC D12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D150 February 12, 2019
UNDERPAID TEACHERS AND CRUMBLING
SCHOOLS: HOW UNDERFUNDING PUBLIC
EDUCATION SHORTCHANGES AMERICA’S
STUDENTS
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Underpaid Teachers and
Crumbling Schools: How Underfunding Public Edu-
cation Shortchanges America’s Students’’. Testimony
was heard from Sharon L. Contreras, Superintendent,
Guilford County Schools, Greensboro, North Caro-
lina; and public witnesses.
CLIMATE CHANGE: PREPARING FOR THE
ENERGY TRANSITION
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on En-
ergy and Mineral Resources held a hearing entitled
‘‘Climate Change: Preparing for the Energy Transi-
tion’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
THE IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON
TRIBAL COMMUNITIES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on In-
digenous Peoples of the United Sates held a hearing
entitled ‘‘The Impacts of Climate Change on Tribal
Communities’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
THE COST OF RISING PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PRICES
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Rising Prescription
Drug Prices’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 13, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to receive a closed briefing
on cyber operations to defend the midterm elections, 9:30
a.m., SVC–217.
Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support,
with the Subcommittee on Personnel, to hold a joint
hearing to examine the current condition of the Military
Housing Privatization Initiative, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine the nominations of Janice Mir-
iam Hellreich, of Hawaii, Robert A. Mandell, of Florida,
Don Munce, of Florida, and Bruce M. Ramer, of Cali-
fornia, each to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and a routine
list in the Coast Guard, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the invasive species threat, focusing on
protecting wildlife, public health, and infrastructure, 10
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider S. 380, to increase access to
agency guidance documents, S. 396, to amend section
1202 of title 5, United States Code, to modify the con-
tinuation of service provision for members of the Merit
Systems Protection Board, S. 394, to amend the Presi-
dential Transition Act of 1963 to improve the orderly
transfer of the executive power during Presidential transi-
tions, S. 195, to require the Director of the Government
Publishing Office to establish and maintain a website ac-
cessible to the public that allows the public to obtain
electronic copies of all congressionally mandated reports
in one place, S. 196, to save taxpayer money and improve
the efficiency and speed of intragovernmental correspond-
ence, S. 395, to require each agency, in providing notice
of a rule making, to include a link to a 100 word plain
language summary of the proposed rule, S. 406, to estab-
lish a Federal rotational cyber workforce program for the
Federal cyber workforce, S. 375, to improve efforts to
identify and reduce Governmentwide improper payments,
S. 315, to authorize cyber hunt and incident response
teams at the Department of Homeland Security, S. 333,
to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to work
with cybersecurity consortia for training, S. 74, to pro-
hibit paying Members of Congress during periods during
which a Government shutdown is in effect, S. 387, to
prohibit Federal agencies and Federal contractors from re-
questing that an applicant for employment disclose crimi-
nal history record information before the applicant has re-
ceived a conditional offer, H.R. 504, to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security to develop an engagement
strategy with fusion centers, and the nominations of Den-
nis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be Chairman, and Julia
Akins Clark, of Maryland, and Andrew F. Maunz, of
Ohio, both to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board, and Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, 10 a.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Michael H. Park, of New York, and
Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Greg Girard
Guidry, to be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Louisiana, Michael T. Liburdi, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Arizona,
and Peter D. Welte, to be United States District Judge
for the District of North Dakota, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: business meeting
to consider S. Res. 50, improving procedures for the con-
sideration of nominations in the Senate, an original reso-
lution authorizing expenditures by committees for the
116th Congress, and committee rules, 10:30 a.m.,
SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: to hold
an oversight hearing to examine the Small Business Ad-
ministration, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12FE9.REC D12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D151
February 12, 2019
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies, hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Department of Energy’s
Weatherization Assistance Program’’, 10 a.m., 2362–B
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Defense, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Mili-
tary Service Academies Overview’’, 11 a.m., H–140 Cap-
itol.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Long Term
Healthcare Challenges and Long Term Care Hearing’’, 2
p.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Military
Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Military Service Academies’
Action Plans to Address the Results of Sexual Assault and
Violence Report at the Military Service Academies’’, 2
p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services; and Subcommittee on
Workforce Protections, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Paycheck
Fairness Act (H.R. 7): Equal Pay for Equal Work’’, 10:15
a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Pro-
tecting Consumers and Competition: An Examination of
the T-Mobile and Sprint Merger’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Strength-
ening Our Health Care System: Legislation to Reverse
ACA Sabotage and Ensure Pre-Existing Conditions Pro-
tections’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Homeless in America: Examining the Crisis and
Solutions to End Homelessness’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Financial
Institutions, hearing entitled ‘‘Challenges and Solutions:
Access to Banking Services for Cannabis-Related Busi-
nesses’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Venezuela at a Crossroads’’, 11 a.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Defending Our Democracy: Building Partner-
ships to Protect America’s Elections’’, 10 a.m., 310 Can-
non.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
H.R. 8, the ‘‘Bipartisan Background Checks Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 1112, the ‘‘Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing entitled
‘‘Climate Change and Public Lands: Examining Impacts
and Considering Adaptation Opportunities’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of Climate Science
and Why it Matters’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Small Business Priorities for the 116th Con-
gress’’, 11 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘Putting U.S.
Aviation at Risk: The Impact of the Shutdown’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, organi-
zational meeting, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Select
Revenue Measures, hearing entitled ‘‘How Middle Class
Families are Faring in Today’s Economy’’, 10 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing on asset recovery in Eurasia, 10 a.m.,
SD–562.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12FE9.REC D12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D152 February 12, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, February 13
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of William Pelham Barr, of Vir-
ginia, to be Attorney General, Department of Justice,
post-cloture.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, February 13
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.J. Res.
37—Directing the removal of United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress, Rules Committee
Print (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E164
Smith, Jason, Mo., E164
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D12FE9.REC D12FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
