Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5279
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019 No. 131
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Friday, August 2, 2019, at 11 a.m.
Senate
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, who has created human-
ity in Your image, look upon us and
hear our prayers.
Today, give our lawmakers the desire
to do Your will and the energy to com-
plete the tasks that will glorify Your
Name. That which they don’t know, re-
veal it; that which they lack, supply it;
and that which they doubt, confirm it.
Keep them blameless in Your service so
that their lives will be living letters
causing people to exalt Your Name.
Lord, strengthen their minds for Your
service so that Your wisdom will per-
meate their endeavors.
We pray in Your mighty Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to address the Sen-
ate for 1 minute in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
think we should save the taxpayers a
lot of money by giving States more op-
tions under Medicaid.
Unlike Medicare and private insur-
ance, Medicaid doesn’t incentivize bun-
dled payments. This prevents States
from testing a method that could po-
tentially save money.
The bipartisan prescription drug
pricing reform legislation I introduced
with Senator WYDEN allows States to
collect rebates from drugs in out-
patient settings. This removes an ex-
isting exemption in statute for some
outpatient drugs and allows States to
more completely utilize and test bun-
dled payments to possibly save money.
Giving States flexibility allows them
to focus on the best care for different
populations. Encouraging bundled pay-
ments in Medicaid would do just that.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
LINCOLN COUNTY GAS LEAK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, my
office and I are closely monitoring a
significant explosion of a natural gas
transmission pipeline early this morn-
ing near Danville, in my home State of
Kentucky.
As of this morning, one fatality and
five more injuries have been reported,
and others may be unaccounted for. We
hope and pray that these figures do not
increase. Several structures have been
damaged or destroyed.
The Lincoln County emergency man-
ager reported: ‘‘The part of the area
that has been compromised, there is
just nothing left.’’ The fiery explosion
was so large that it was picked up by
weather satellites, and witnesses re-
port the smoke can be seen from my
hometown of Louisville, almost 70
miles away.
Obviously, the investigation is just
beginning. My staff and I will continue
to stay on top of this and be a resource
for everyone affected.
This morning, our prayers are with
the families whom this disaster has
touched, and our gratitude is with all
the first responders who rushed toward
the towering flames to protect their
neighbors and communities.
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, now
on a completely different matter, the
Senate has accomplished a significant
amount of business this week for the
American people.
We have made a big dent in the back-
log of President Trump’s well-qualified
nominees for Federal office. With re-
spect to the judiciary, we have con-
firmed 13 impressive individuals to life-
time seats on the Federal bench. We
have also ensured that two more key
components of the President’s foreign
policy team will be on the job before
the Senate adjourns for the August
work period.
We confirmed the Deputy Secretary
of Defense and a new ambassador to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.000 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5280 August 1, 2019
the United Nations—both with bipar-
tisan support, just as it should be for
nominees who are so fully prepared for
jobs that are so important.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today the Senate will turn our atten-
tion to legislation. We need to address
the debt limit and secure the full faith
and credit of the United States. We
need to continue to secure the funding
our national defense demands. Fortu-
nately, the pending legislation will ac-
complish precisely that.
In recent weeks, key officials on
President Trump’s team engaged in ex-
tensive negotiations with Speaker
PELOSI and the Democratic House.
Given the exigencies of a divided gov-
ernment, we knew that any bipartisan
agreement on funding levels would not
appear perfect to either side, but the
administration negotiated a strong
deal.
First and foremost, it ensures our
Federal Government will not approach
any kind of short-term debt crisis in
the coming weeks or months. It secures
our Nation’s full faith and credit and
ensures that Congress will not throw
this kind of unnecessary wrench into
the gears of job growth and a thriving
economy.
What is more, despite the desires of
the Democratic House, the administra-
tion has successfully kept far-left poi-
son pills and policy riders entirely out
of the process.
We had heard that our Democratic
colleagues across the Capitol were
clamoring to take us backward on the
issue of life, perhaps even targeting the
Hyde Amendment or forcing more tax-
payer dollars back toward Planned
Parenthood. We had heard they were
clamoring to try to handcuff the ad-
ministration’s important work on bor-
der security, but on those fronts, and
many others, the far left was denied
any such victories. There are no poison
pills—a big win for the White House.
I ask unanimous consent that the
terms of this agreement and the spe-
cific prohibition of poison pills be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
BIPARTISAN BUDGET AGREEMENT FOR FISCAL
YEARS 2020 AND 2021
1. The 2019 Bipartisan Budget Agreement
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021 (‘‘Agreement’’)
is agreed to by the bipartisan leadership of
Congress and the administration of Donald
J. Trump. The bipartisan Congressional lead-
ership and the administration agree to co-
operate in the Agreement’s implementation.
2. The Agreement modifies the discre-
tionary spending caps imposed by the Budget
Control Act (‘‘BCA’’) for fiscal years 2020 and
2021 pursuant to the table below. The spend-
ing cap adjustments are intended to reflect
the elimination of the BCA sequester for two
years, plus a slight increase in spending for
both defense and non-defense programs.
3. The parties agree to partially offset the
Agreement’s modifications to the discre-
tionary spending caps legislation by extend-
ing the BCA mandatory sequester and cus-
toms user fees to achieve a total offset level
of $77.4 billion as scored by the Congressional
Budget Office.
4. The debt limit will be suspended for two
years, through July 31, 2021. No additional
restrictions will be placed on the Secretary’s
extraordinary measures authorities. The
debt limit suspension, spending cap adjust-
ments, offsets, and any necessary procedural
matters, will be included as part of a single
piece of legislation.
5. Appropriations bills: Specific spending
decisions shall be left to the members of the
Appropriations Committees, with 302(b)s set
through the regular process of the commit-
tees. Congressional leaders and the adminis-
tration agree that, relative to the FY 2019
regular appropriations Acts, there will be no
poison pills, additional new riders, addi-
tional CHIMPS, or other changes in policy or
conventions that allow for higher spending
levels, or any nonappropriations measures
unless agreed to on a bipartisan basis by the
four leaders with the approval of the Presi-
dent. Current transfer funding levels and au-
thorities shall be maintained, and any modi-
fications must be agreed to on a bipartisan
basis by the four leaders with the approval of
the President. Any emergency spending lev-
els must be agreed to on a bipartisan basis
by the four leaders with the approval of the
President.
6. The agreement also establishes a new
cap adjustment for FY 2020 to help ensure
the necessary resources for the decennial
Census are provided.
7. Senate Leaders agree that if a bill has
been reported on a bipartisan basis from the
Senate Appropriations Committee and is
consistent with the BCA spending caps, and
has the support of the Chairman and the
Ranking Member, they will work together to
minimize procedural delays. The Majority
Leader will continue to consult with the
Democratic Leader to sequence bills in a bi-
partisan way, and acknowledges that bipar-
tisan concurrence is required to expedite the
consideration of any appropriations bill.
8. The President, Congressional leaders and
the leadership of the Appropriations Com-
mittees shall work together to reach bi-
cameral and bipartisan agreement on the or-
derly and timely consideration of FY 2020 ap-
propriations bills to avoid a government
shutdown, and a 12-bill omnibus. The Presi-
dent, Congressional leaders and the leader-
ship of the Appropriations Committees shall
also work together to reach bicameral and
bipartisan agreement on the orderly and
timely consideration of FY 2021 appropria-
tions bills to avoid a government shutdown,
and a 12-bill omnibus.
Fiscal
Year 2019
Fiscal
Year 2020
Fiscal
Year 2021
Defense Base ........................... 647.00 666.500 671.500
Defense OCO ............................ 69.0 71.500 69.000
Defense subtotal ............. 716.000 738.000 740.500
Nondefense Base ...................... 597.000 621.500 626.500
Census Adj. .............................. – – – 2.500 0
Nondefense base plus
adjustments ................ 597.000 624.000 626.500
Nondefense OCO ....................... 8.0 8.000 8.000
Nondefense subtotal ....... 605.000 632.000 634.500
Total ....................... 1,321.000 1,370.000 1,375.000
Adjustments permitted under current law for disaster relief, wildfire sup-
pression, program integrity, and 21st Century Cures Act continue.
Agreement calls for increased OCO funding in FY 2020 (relative to FY
2019) of + $2.5 billion for defense funding. Defense OCO returns to FY
2019 levels in FY 2021.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, perhaps more
importantly—particularly to my Re-
publican colleagues and to me—this
legislation sets a sufficient funding
level for our national defense.
Over the past few months, as we have
worked through important legislation
like the NDAA, we have been reminded
of one glaring reality: The forces that
seek to harm the United States and our
interests are ever-changing, and they
demand the full attention of a fully
equipped, modern, and ready military.
Since President Trump took office,
Republicans in Congress have made re-
markable progress. Working together,
we have begun rolling back the damage
caused by the previous administra-
tion’s neglect, atrophy, and misguided
approach. We have begun to rebuild
and restore our military. We have
taken important steps toward mod-
ernization, so we aren’t just rebuilding
the capabilities we need today but in-
vesting in those we will sorely need to-
morrow.
I trust none of my colleagues are
under the illusion that our work is fin-
ished. As our adversaries grow strong-
er, critical gaps remain in our ability
to counter expansion, influence cam-
paigns, and direct acts of violence to-
ward America and our allies around the
world.
The bipartisan funding deal is the op-
portunity—the only opportunity on the
table—to continue filling in these gaps
before it is too late. So make no mis-
take, Russia is not waiting idly by as
we sort out whether to deliver full
funding to missile defense or uphold
our support of partner forces in Eu-
rope. China will not scale back its own
aggressive ambitions and military in-
vestments if Americans decide to take
a breather ourselves. Iran’s financing
of terrorist organizations and regional
troublemaking is not going to stop if
we stop investing in our own ability to
check their efforts and project power.
So if we say we are serious about
countering threats to our homeland,
our allies, and our men and women de-
ployed overseas, then we have to actu-
ally deliver on our promise to equip
our forces for the job.
We have to invest in improved readi-
ness to help our military commanders
plan for emerging challenges—in re-
search and development to support the
U.S. military of the future—and in
rock-solid support for our alliance
commitments, which help preserve the
peace and extend the reach of our val-
ues.
This deal is an opportunity to do ex-
actly that. This is the agreement the
administration has negotiated. This is
the deal the House has passed. This is
the deal President Trump is waiting
and eager to sign into law. This is the
deal that every Member of this body
should support when we vote later this
morning.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.001 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5281
August 1, 2019
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to the consideration of H.R. 3877,
which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3877) to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, to establish a congressional budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other pur-
poses.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 165, H.R. 3877, a bill to amend the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985, to establish a congressional
budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to tem-
porarily suspend the debt limit, and for
other purposes.
Lamar Alexander, Thom Tillis, Martha
McSally, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, Susan M. Collins, Tom
Cotton, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
Bill Cassidy, John Thune, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Rob Portman,
Lisa Murkowski, Mitch McConnell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
later today, the Senate will move to
consider the measure on the floor,
probably pass it, and then leave town.
There will be efforts to describe what
we have done as a reason for satisfac-
tion and pride. There have been accom-
plishments, but on one critical issue—
really a range of issues—involving our
national security, we have only abject
failure to show for the months we have
been here.
I am proud to come to the floor of
the Senate today to advocate for that
cause—election security—with col-
leagues like Senator AMY KLOBUCHAR
of Minnesota and Senator MARK WAR-
NER of Virginia, who have been tireless
champions, articulate, and eloquent
advocates for this cause.
Election security is national secu-
rity. The testimony from Robert
Mueller, whatever you think about his
verdict on the President, clearly called
for action.
Robert Mueller is a modern-day Paul
Revere, sounding the alarm about the
Russians and many other nations—as
he put it—who are mounting a renewed
attack on this country.
In the next election, this attack will
make 2016 look like child’s play, a
dress rehearsal, because the tools and
techniques they will bring to bear in
attacking our democracy are so much
more sophisticated. Already, in 2016,
Robert Mueller called that attack
sweeping and systematic. It was the
reason he first spoke about it in his
statement and in May closed that
statement with a severe and dire warn-
ing about the ongoing interference in
our democracy.
Those many other nations already in-
clude Iran, which just last week the
Washington Post reported to be mount-
ing its own disinformation campaign
using social media and misinforma-
tion—disinformation—to distract, di-
vide, and sow discord here and in other
democracies around the world.
There is nothing unknown to many of
us about the Russians’ intent and the
designs of these other nations. It is
hiding in plain sight.
From all of the classified briefings
that we have received over these
months, the Russians know what they
are doing, we know what the Russians
are doing, and we know what we are
failing to do. The ones in the dark are
the American people, and that is why
Senator KLOBUCHAR, Senator WARNER,
and I are on the floor today—to make
sure that when we leave today, it is not
the end of this topic. It is the begin-
ning of a drumbeat, a cry of outrage,
and unhappiness around the Nation.
There are a number of measures that
we have championed that involve more
funding for the States to do election
security, paper ballots by the States to
provide backups, auditing standards,
and cyber security criteria. These
measures are a matter of common
sense. That word ‘‘common sense’’ is
overused these days, especially in a
city where it is on display so infre-
quently, but common sense is the rea-
son we are here.
I want to talk specifically about the
Duty to Report Act. It is based on a
very simple idea: If you see something,
say something. The Duty to Report Act
would require all campaigns, all can-
didates, and family members to imme-
diately report to the FBI and the Fed-
eral Election Commission any offers of
foreign assistance. It would codify in
the law what is already a matter of
moral duty, patriotic duty, and com-
mon sense. It is already illegal to ac-
cept foreign assistance during a cam-
paign. It is already illegal to solicit
foreign assistance during a campaign.
All this bill would do is require individ-
uals and campaigns and family mem-
bers to report those illegal foreign as-
sistance efforts to the FBI.
When Robert Mueller came before
Congress, he outlined the most serious
attack on our democracy by a foreign
power in our history. It includes 140
contacts between the Trump campaign
and Russian agents—Russian covert
and overt efforts to influence the out-
come of our election by helping one
candidate and hurting another. But the
Russians and those many other nations
that will engage in similar attacks on
our democracy have no particular par-
tisan preference. They are doing what
is in their interest to disrupt our de-
mocracy, and the victim in one elec-
tion may be the one preferred in the
next. So we have a common cause here.
Indeed, Robert Mueller testified:
Over the course of my career, I’ve seen a
number of challenges to our democracy. The
Russian government’s efforts to interfere in
our election is among the most serious.
This deserves the attention of every
American. We have an obligation,
above all, as Members of this body,
where there has been so much history
of bipartisan action, to come together
in this cause.
Christopher Wray, the Director of the
FBI, recently came before the Senate
Judiciary Committee, and he warned
that the Russians are still actively try-
ing to interfere in our elections. Again
and again, our intelligence community
has warned severely, repeatedly, pow-
erfully about this threat.
Yet when asked whether he would ac-
cept foreign help in 2020, the President
of the United States said: ‘‘I’d take it.’’
It is much like his son Donald Junior
said during this last campaign in re-
sponse to an offer of assistance from
the Russians: ‘‘I love it.’’
When Robert Mueller was asked
about this point during his testimony,
he said: ‘‘I hope this is not the new nor-
mal. But I fear it is.’’
That is the reason we need this meas-
ure. That is the reason we need the
measures that my colleagues, Senator
KLOBUCHAR of Minnesota and Senator
WARNER of Virginia, have helped to
lead, and that is why I have been proud
to join them in this effort.
To my Republican colleagues in the
leadership, I say: Lead or get out of the
way. To the President of the United
States: Lead or get out of the way. Our
national security is too important to
make a partisan issue. We ought to
join together, as we did after 9/11, to
prevent more disaster and to join in
this common cause.
This legislation is a matter of moral
duty, patriotic duty, and common
sense. With the 2020 election literally
on the horizon before us, we must act
now. Time is not on our side. It is only
on our adversary’s side.
As much as we take pride in the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, the
threat to our national security is not
only from the planes and the sub-
marines and the aircraft carriers. It is
also from the cyber attacks and the so-
cial media campaigns to disrupt and
destroy our democracy.
I am proud to be joined today by a
great colleague who has been a wonder-
ful champion on this issue, Senator
AMY KLOBUCHAR from Minnesota.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Min-
nesota.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.002 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5282 August 1, 2019
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I first thank my colleague from Con-
necticut, Senator BLUMENTHAL, for his
incredible work and leadership on this
important bill, the Duty to Report Act,
as well as for all of the other work that
he has done.
He gets it. He gets that we are about
to adjourn this day without passing
election security legislation. We had
bipartisan election security legisla-
tion. We have had that for years. Yet it
has been stopped in every step of the
way.
Russia invaded our democracy. Let’s
be clear about that. I don’t like it when
we use the word ‘‘meddle’’ because that
is what I do when I call my daughter on
a Saturday night to ask her what she is
doing. This foreign country didn’t just
meddle in our election. They invaded
it. They didn’t use missiles or tanks.
They used a new kind of modern war-
fare, which is cyber warfare, and they
did it to invade our democracy.
Think about this. Our Founders lit-
erally set up a country and a Constitu-
tion because they wanted to be inde-
pendent of a foreign country. In this
case, it was England. Hundreds of thou-
sands of Americans have lost their
lives on the battlefield fighting for our
democracy and democracies across the
world. That is what World War I and
World War II were about. They were
fighting for democracies across the
world and fighting for the simple right
that people should be able to determine
their own destiny and vote.
Yet, in 2016, we know for a fact—we
know it from President Trump’s own
intelligence advisers. Dan Coats, who
was once a Senator in this very Cham-
ber and who is someone we are going to
miss, is leaving his position. Dan Coats
made it clear. He said they are getting
bolder. So this is something right in
front of us right now, and we must re-
spond to it.
Yet we haven’t passed a bill to ad-
dress it. Yes, Senator LANKFORD and I,
along with Senators LEAHY, COONS,
SHELBY, and others have worked to get
some money, over $200 million, into the
States, which is important. We got
that done, but it doesn’t really end
there because, actually, there were no
strings attached to that in terms of
what we want to have done in this
country, and I will get to that in a
minute.
So let’s first go back over the facts,
because some people in this Chamber
seem to have trouble with facts. Let’s
go over those. Special Counsel Mueller,
under oath, just last week and in his
report, concluded that Russian inter-
ference in our democracy was sweeping
and systematic. Those were his words
and not my words. We know that they
are actively working again to under-
mine our democracy. In his words,
when he was testifying under oath,
‘‘they’re doing it as we sit here.’’ That
is what he said under oath.
The day before Special Counsel
Mueller testified in the House, the FBI
Director testified in front of the com-
mittee that I am on, the Senate Judici-
ary Committee. I was there and asked
him questions. I asked him whether he
thinks having things like paper ballots
makes sense in the event that the Rus-
sian hacking happens again. He said:
Yes, they would be a good thing. This
is the FBI Director for the United
States of America who was appointed
by Donald Trump. Again, he was under
oath.
We have multiple pieces of legisla-
tion that would require backup paper
ballots. There are different versions,
but they all really do the same thing.
Some of them have different kinds of
audits, but the one thing they have in
common is the paper ballots.
I am leading one of these bills with
Senator WARNER and a number of my
colleagues. One of them is a bill we
have with Senator WYDEN that is im-
portant, and then there is the work
that Senator LANKFORD and I have
done across the aisle, which is a bipar-
tisan bill, which we continue to work
on today.
But what has happened? What do all
of these bills have in common? They
have been blocked by the leadership on
the Republican side and opposed by the
White House. That is right. They
weren’t vetoed because they never got
to the White House but because the
White House made the move of stop-
ping them in their tracks before they
could get to the White House. I know
because I am the ranking member of
the Senate Rules Committee, and our
jurisdiction is elections. Our job was to
get that bill through the committee to
the Senate floor. It was actually sched-
uled for a markup, which means you
get the bill all done, and you send it to
the Senate floor, where I predict it
would have gotten at least three-
fourths of the Members working and
voting for that bipartisan bill.
What happened? The White House
made calls. They made calls. The
White House counsel actually called
Senators on the committee and said
that they didn’t want it to advance.
That is what we call ‘‘smoking gun’’
evidence. That happened. That hap-
pened. We know why this bill was
blocked. In addition to that, Repub-
lican leadership, including the leader,
made very clear that they did not want
that bill to advance in the Senate.
Our top intelligence officials and law
enforcement officers are sounding the
alarm about the fact that our elections
are a target. Look at what they have
done. They have blocked this, despite
the best advice from the intelligence
officials in the United States of Amer-
ica.
And it doesn’t stop there. It doesn’t
stop there. As to other bills that they
will not allow to advance, one of them
involves social media. You all know
what it is like, when you have your
Facebook page or your Twitter feed or
you are searching something on
Google, something comes up, and an ad
pops up. Sometimes it is scarily related
to something you were searching for,
but, yes, ads pop up.
Well, you know what other kinds of
ads pop up? Political ads pop up. Those
ads are paid for by some kind of polit-
ical entity. I see my friend Senator
WARNER is here on this floor. He is an
expert on this, as the ranking member
of the Intelligence Committee.
As to the fact that actually some of
these ads in 2016 were paid for in ru-
bles, this is illegal. A foreign country
cannot pay for ads on the internet, but
they were doing that because there are
no checks and balances.
So what kind of ads are on there?
Well, what would you do if you were on
a campaign or an issue group and you
want to put a bunch of dirty ads out
there? Would you do it on TV? No, you
wouldn’t do it on TV. If you are a for-
eign country, would you do that? No,
because there are rules in place for TV
and newspaper and radio that they
have to check those ads out, and they
have to keep them so people can see
them, and they have to show who has
paid for them. There are no rules like
that on social media.
That is why I have formally intro-
duced, with my friend Senator McCain
and now with Senator GRAHAM and
Senator WARNER, the Honest Ads Act,
which simply puts those rules in place.
Literally, if we pass that bill right
now, today, before we left for the re-
cess, well, they can get this done in the
large platforms. Some of them are vol-
untarily doing it, but it is a mishmash,
and some of them aren’t doing it at all.
We cannot go into this next election
when last time over a billion was spent
on them and next time it is $3 billion
to $4 billion without any rules of the
road.
I go back to the same argument I
made. Hundreds of thousands of people
risked their lives and died on battle-
fields to protect that right to vote and
to not be influenced by foreign coun-
tries. Why aren’t we doing things to
protect that democracy now in this
modern age?
Four little girls in a church in Bir-
mingham lost their lives at the height
of the civil rights movement. Why? Be-
cause people were trying to take away
people’s rights and because they didn’t
want them in on this democracy. That
is the American history. And yes, these
things we are talking about sound new-
fangled—cyber attacks and ads on so-
cial media—but it is actually the same
version of what our Founders fought
for in the very beginning, and that is
why we are making such a big deal out
of protecting our democracy.
Everyone remembers the 2000 elec-
tion. We saw the hanging chads dis-
played on TVs across the country. That
experience taught us that our election
systems were outdated. What did Con-
gress do back then? We passed the Help
America Vote Act, landmark legisla-
tion that provided more than $3 billion
to the States, helping them to update
their election structure. That was 17
years ago, before the iPhone existed,
and the Federal Government has not
made a big investment to update our
voting technology since.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.005 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5283
August 1, 2019
The Russians knew that when they
attacked us in 2016. Well, we can’t do it
this way. We are not going to be able
to use battleships. What way would
work today? What is their big vulnera-
bility? Let’s go for the soft spot where
they haven’t been putting the money
in to protect themselves.
They conducted sophisticated influ-
ence operations, hacked political com-
mittees and campaigns, revealed the
emails of the chairman of the Demo-
cratic candidate, targeted election ad-
ministrators and even private tech-
nology firms responsible for manufac-
turing and administering election sys-
tems. In Illinois, the names, addresses,
birth dates, and partial Social Security
numbers of thousands of registered vot-
ers were exposed.
Just recently, we learned that the
election systems in two Florida coun-
ties were hacked by the Russians. The
Department of Homeland Security is
conducting forensic analysis on com-
puters used in North Carolina after it
was revealed in the Mueller report that
a voting software company was hacked
by Russia.
So we have a common set of facts
about what has happened. What we
need to do now is to address these facts
with purpose. There must be an outcry
about this from the American people.
This must be done now, not after 2020.
It has to be done now. We have a long
way to go to make sure our election
systems are resilient against attacks.
Here are some more facts to consider.
Forty States rely on electronic voting
systems that are at least 10 years old.
Eleven States have either no or partial
backup paper ballots. Sixteen States
have no statewide audit requirement.
These are alarming statistics. I am
not stating anything secret; the Rus-
sians know this today. That is why I
have worked with my Democratic col-
leagues in the House and Senate on leg-
islation that would provide critical
election security funding in the coming
years, and mostly it would be tied to a
requirement that they have backup
paper ballots. Otherwise, what are we
going to do if we don’t have those
backup paper ballots if there is a hack?
It doesn’t even matter if three counties
in a swing State were hacked if we
can’t figure out the results. If it were
just their State elections, that would
be embarrassing or pathetic, but it is
going to be a national Presidential
election, and we cannot risk having
counties or States hacked into because
then we would have chaos and not
know the results.
Last week, my bill was offered by
Senator SCHUMER on the floor. It could
have gone to the President’s desk that
day. Instead, Leader MCCONNELL ob-
jected. During his objection, he said
that election legislation must be draft-
ed with ‘‘great care’’ and on a bipar-
tisan basis. We did that.
Senator WARNER is here. He worked
on it. We did that with Senator
LANKFORD, but we were blocked at the
Rules Committee. We were blocked.
That is a documented fact. The markup
had been scheduled. It was ready to go.
Senator BLUNT had been willing to hold
a markup on the bill, and it was
stopped.
I am going to tell that story every
day until we advance this. I have an
opportunity to do that, and I am going
to do it because people need to know
what is going on. This should not be
about partisanship or about what bene-
fits which party.
What were the Founders thinking
when they decided to declare independ-
ence from a foreign country? They
were thinking of our country as one. A
ramshackle group of those early
Founders, farmers and small business
people, came together and said: We
love this land, and we don’t want to
have another country influencing us.
That is exactly what this is about.
Election security is national security.
It is time we started acting like it. The
Federal Government spends more
money on military bands every year
than it does on election security assist-
ance to the States. I love military
bands, but let’s get real.
In 2018, we fought to get $380 million
in election funding. That was a first
step. That is 3 percent of the cost of
one aircraft carrier. Recently, 22 State
attorneys general sent a letter asking
us to take action to protect the integ-
rity of our election structure, includ-
ing the attorneys general from States
such as Iowa and Mississippi. These are
not blue States. They did not see this
as a partisan issue. This is not about
one election or one party; this is about
our democracy and our national secu-
rity. We need to be a united front, I say
to my colleagues, a united front in
fighting against those who interfere
with our democracy.
I am glad to see Senator WARNER,
someone who is on the frontlines every
day in his very important position on
the Intelligence Committee.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President,
first of all, I want to thank my friend,
the Senator from Minnesota, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, for her leadership and passion
on this issue.
This shouldn’t be that hard. I know
we addressed some of the legislation
she has talked about, and also earlier
Senator BLUMENTHAL came to the floor
as well. I think the theme you are
going to hear from all three of us is
that while we may have made some
progress, the truth is, we are simply
not doing enough to secure our election
infrastructure.
There is a series of bills that I think
are common sense and, if they got to
the floor, would get 75 votes and maybe
even more.
Over the past few weeks, I have come
to the floor a couple of times to try to
move by unanimous consent my legis-
lation known as the FIRE Act. I am
not going to do that this morning, but
I do want to highlight this bill as one
more example of commonsense, bipar-
tisan election security legislation that
unfortunately is not getting its chance
to be debated on the floor of the Sen-
ate.
The FIRE Act would simply require
Presidential campaigns to do the right
thing and report offers of foreign as-
sistance—offers which are already
spelled out as illegal—to the FBI. Any-
one who says it does anything else,
such as limiting contacts with the for-
eign press or limiting contact with for-
eign diplomats—somebody said it
might eliminate communications with
Dreamers—is just flat wrong.
If there are ways to improve the bi-
partisan legislation, I am wide open to
that. I don’t know how anyone could be
against the idea of putting our country
over narrow interests or putting our
national security concerns over polit-
ical advantage. In fact, a new poll last
week found that 87 percent of Ameri-
cans support this idea. The same poll
found that an extraordinarily large
majority of Americans believe that it
is wrong for campaigns to accept for-
eign assistance and that Congress
should pass legislation to secure our
elections.
Unfortunately, in the nearly 3 years
since we uncovered Russia’s attack on
our democracy, this body has not held
a single vote on stand-alone legislation
to protect our election security. It is
true that we did approve some addi-
tional funding to secure the 2018 mid-
term elections, and I commend the
folks at DHS for the job they did. I am
proud of that. But we would be making
an enormous mistake if we simply pat-
ted ourselves on the back and said that
because the Russians or others didn’t
launch a full-frontal attack in 2018, we
are safe on a going-forward basis.
Please, don’t take my word for it.
Let’s look at what Special Prosecutor
Bob Mueller said last week. He said
that the Russians are continuing to at-
tack virtually every day. The bipar-
tisan Intelligence Committee election
security report said that we have made
progress, but there is more that needs
to be done. Christopher Wray, the Di-
rector of the FBI, in recent testimony
said this is an ongoing challenge. Dan
Coats, for whom I have enormous re-
spect and feel it is unfortunate that he
left the position of Director of National
Intelligence—and maybe he left be-
cause he was willing to continue to
speak truth to power—said that our
election security system is not secure
enough. Even Gina Haspel, the Director
of the CIA, has continued to point out
that Russia and other foreign influ-
ences are trying to attack our democ-
racy.
Candidly, it has been a little bit dis-
appointing that some of my colleagues
are trying to turn this into a partisan
issue. Securing our democracy is not a
Democratic or Republican issue. The
absurdity of that is like saying: Well,
maybe we should think about pro-
tecting our power grid as a partisan
issue. We know and have seen evidence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.007 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5284 August 1, 2019
of foreign efforts to try to interfere
with our power grid. Well, the country
steps up and puts security measures in
place. Shouldn’t we expect the same
kind of attention and commonsense ap-
proach when we see those same foreign
adversaries attack our election infra-
structure? I think we do need to take
that kind of step and move forward.
Senator KLOBUCHAR already made
mention of some of this legislation,
and I know my friend the Senator from
Georgia is here, so I will try to wrap
up.
There was a broad bipartisan group
of Senators in the last Congress who
introduced the Secure Elections Act—
something I was proud to be part of.
That bipartisan bill would have pro-
vided the additional resources for State
and local election officials while still
preserving local control of elections.
What that legislation would have done
was simply say that if local or State
election officials want additional help
from the Federal Government, they
have to meet some basic, de minimis
standards. We have to make sure that
every polling station in America has a
paper ballot backup. We have to make
sure that there is appropriate auditing
of how we do in our election systems.
I wish the bill would have done more
and gone up the food chain to the three
private companies that control 90 per-
cent of all of our voter files. Maybe
that could be action we could take in
the future. If those voter files were
hacked into, they wouldn’t have to
change the vote totals; they simply
would have to move people from one
voting precinct to another to create
chaos on election day.
Senator KLOBUCHAR also mentioned
legislation that she, Senator GRAHAM,
and I worked on, a bipartisan bill to
prevent disinformation—particularly
on the internet—called the Honest Ads
Act. It would require the same disclo-
sure rules for political ads on Facebook
that are already in place for television,
radio, and newsprint.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of an-
other bipartisan bill called the DETER
Act, sponsored by Senator RUBIO and
Senator VAN HOLLEN. They are abso-
lutely right in saying that we need to
put in place automatic consequences if
Russia or other nations use their 2016
playbook once again to try to interfere
in our 2020 elections. Let’s warn our ad-
versaries that there will be con-
sequences if they once again try to
interfere in our election process.
These are just a few of the largely bi-
partisan ideas with regard to pro-
tecting the United States against for-
eign attacks on our election systems. I
am sure there would be suggestions on
how we can improve this legislation.
That is fine. That is what we are here
to do. Let’s debate, vote, and add
amendments.
What we should not do is simply pre-
tend this threat is going away. We
should not simply assume that because
we improved in 2018, we are safe in 2020.
We should recognize that local and
State election officials need the kind of
assistance, paper ballot backup, and
the same responsibility that Federal
campaign officials in Presidential cam-
paigns ought to have—an affirmative
duty to report. Political ads that pop
up on Facebook ought to have the
same kind of legal requirements that
ads on television have. I don’t think
this is too much to ask. I think the
overwhelming majority of Americans
expect us to do our job on this issue.
I hope when the Senate reconvenes in
September that maybe people can be
refreshed by their voters back in their
home States, because I am sure that
when you go to whatever State and
visit with folks and talk about election
security, they will say to the Congress
and Senate: Do your job and pass com-
monsense legislation.
Let’s make sure our election security
is absolutely as safe as it can be as we
move into the 2020 elections.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, in
1974, Congress passed a new Budget
Act. It was revolutionary and com-
prehensive. It was supposed to stream-
line how Congress appropriates money
to fund the business of the Federal
Government every year.
Unfortunately, now 45 years later, we
know that bill was an unmitigated dis-
aster. Only four times in the last 45
years since that Budget Act was passed
has Congress funded the government
through the appropriations process be-
fore the end of the prior fiscal year—
four times.
Today is the end of July. We are
about to leave Congress today, hope-
fully—if our Senate today gets these
bills passed. Then we will go back to
our States, and we will work in August.
We heard a lot of people talking yester-
day about what they were planning to
do in their States. It is a busy month.
I wish it were a vacation month, but it
is not—nor should it be—given the
things we have to do today.
When we come back in September,
there will be 10 working days left be-
fore the end of this fiscal year, Sep-
tember 30—10 working days.
As I stand before this body today,
this is not a partisan observation. As I
stand here today, we have not appro-
priated $1 for next year’s budget to run
the Federal Government of the United
States of America. That is an indict-
ment. It is an indictment of the proc-
ess, an indictment of the Members, and
an indictment of the fact that we have
no consequences by not funding the
government by September 30—not one.
So today we are about to do some-
thing that could cause us to actually
use a continuing resolution for the
187th time, potentially, since the 1974
Budget Act passed. We now know how
draconian these continuing resolutions
are. I will talk about that in a minute.
Hopefully, we will vote today on a
bill that is a compromise bill that ac-
tually sets the stage. It sets the upper
limit. It doesn’t do the appropriating
at the detail level. It sets the topline
number for the fiscal year 2020, which
starts October 1, 2019. That number is
roughly $1.375 trillion. I have a debt
clock in my office. I can watch the na-
tional debt spin about $100,000 a sec-
ond—going up every single minute of
every single day. This bill actually be-
gins to address that. President Trump
had a couple of priorities here.
Before I talk about that, I want to
put in perspective what this bill actu-
ally does. We talked before about man-
datory spending and discretionary
spending. Again, the problem is in our
Federal Government. This whole budg-
et drama we have seen this year and
every year for the last 45 years only
deals with the discretionary budget,
which is $1.375 trillion for 2021.
The dotted line here is where we are
for the 2019 discretionary budget. Dis-
cretionary budget is 30 percent. That is
the blue line here.
The green line is the total spending
of the Federal Government. Today we
spend $1.3 trillion in discretionary
spending. We spend $3.3 trillion in man-
datory spending. That is a total of $4.6
trillion.
What is in discretionary spending?
Military spending and all other discre-
tionary spending is in there: health,
education, agriculture, labor, the At-
torney General’s office, State. All the
discretionary spending is in there.
Some VA expenses are in there—$1.33
trillion.
In any business, any enterprise, or
your personal budget, if you only dealt
with 30 percent of what you spend in
your budgeting process, wouldn’t we all
have a good time? It wouldn’t matter
how much we did on discretionary
spending because we could just go bor-
row more money. That is what the Fed-
eral Government does.
Let me remind everybody today that
we are also borrowing about 30 percent
of what we spend every year—a little
less than that, but we are borrowing
between 25 percent and 30 percent.
Mandatory is like your home mort-
gage, car payment, and insurance pay-
ment. It is automatically deducted. So
all these mandatory expenses that
today are 70 percent of what we spend,
get spent with no debate in Congress—
none, zero. Why? Because it is manda-
tory. It gets spent like your home
mortgage gets automatically deducted.
Once that is done, just a few pennies
are left to take care of discretionary.
The point I am trying to make is, all
this drama we had this year—and every
year—is over a piece of the budget that
is totally borrowed. Over 90 percent of
what we spend in our Federal Govern-
ment’s military expenses today—our
national defense—is borrowed money,
by definition.
Right now, what we are talking
about is a spending bill that actually
reduces spending for discretionary
items. We are not even talking about
the mandatory side, the 70 percent. If
you look at the 70 percent over the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.008 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5285
August 1, 2019
next decade or the next two decades,
discretionary spending is relatively
flat. These are aggregate numbers—
total numbers adjusted for inflation.
The orange line is the mandatory ex-
penses. They are projected to sky-
rocket here, going from about 70 per-
cent today to almost 85 percent of
every dollar the Federal Government
spends in the next 20 years—from 70
percent today to well over 80 percent—
to almost 85 percent by 2035, 20 years
from now. I argue that is the problem.
Until we address the mandatory side of
our spending and save Social Security
and save Medicare, we will never be
able to solve this debt crisis we see be-
fore us in very real terms today.
Let’s move to this bill we have today.
I ran for the Senate because of the debt
crisis and because of the global secu-
rity crisis. This debt issue is real. I
have been working on it for 41⁄2 years.
Yet this bill today actually lowers
spending as a percentage of our econ-
omy. This bill proposes $54 billion in-
creases in discretionary spending over
2 years—2 percent per year for the next
2 years. That actually lowers spending
as a percentage of our economy. As a
matter of fact, since 2011—the last 10
years—what we have seen, if we do this
budget, is Federal spending on discre-
tionary items goes from 8.7 percent of
our total economy down to 6 percent.
When I ran a business, I looked at my
overhead. That is what this is. Over-
head is declining on discretionary
items as a percentage of what we spend
totally and a percentage of our total
economy.
President Trump had two goals. One
is he wanted to continue to reduce dis-
cretionary spending as a percentage of
GDP. Check that box. This bill does
that. All the so-called debt hawks out
there and all the budget hawks who
say: I am voting no to any new spend-
ing, need to recognize that this bill ac-
tually lowers spending as a percentage
of the economy.
The second objective the President
had—and the Senate is just now com-
ing to realize how draconian these 186
CRs have been over the last 45 years.
The Obama administration reduced
spending in the military by 25 percent.
So readiness had been reduced to a
point by January 1, 2017, when Presi-
dent Trump was inaugurated—readi-
ness in the military had been dev-
astated. Two-thirds of our F–18 lead
fighter jets could not fly. Only three of
our Army brigades could go to war that
night. I saw that. I am on the Armed
Services Committee. You can see when
you travel the world how absolutely
gutted our military had been. For the
last 2 years, we have been rebuilding
that, getting readiness back. In the
month of June, the FA–18s got back to
80 percent readiness.
The second thing this bill does is it
continues, in the second and third
year, to rebuild the military after it
had been gutted by the prior adminis-
tration. Focus of the military today is
readiness and recapitalization, which
means rebuilding burned-out equip-
ment and absolutely rationalization.
We had the first DOD audit—thanks
to President Trump—in the history of
the United States. Last November,
President Trump, after telling the DOD
we would have that—by the way, there
was a law that passed in 1981 that said
we would have a DOD audit. President
Trump is the first President in U.S.
history that provided that. We now
have that and understand opportuni-
ties to rationalize our spending.
When you look at this vote, you look
at making decisions in life. There are
two choices—two votes—that lead to
three potential outcomes today. A
‘‘yes’’ vote continues to support the
military and defend our country at a
level that meets the near-peer competi-
tors’ level of volume. When adjusted
for purchasing power parity, China,
today, is actually spending the same
amount on their military as we are.
They can get there quicker because
they don’t have the regulatory over-
hang that we have in the United
States, but a vote yes means that we
continue to do that; we continue to
lower discretionary spending as a per-
centage of our economy; and we set the
stage to, then again, begin to have the
hard conversation of how we save So-
cial Security and save Medicare. The
major thing it does is it avoids the
drama around not funding the govern-
ment. It gives us a chance, anyway, to
fund our government before October 1.
Remember, September 30 ends this fis-
cal year.
A ‘‘no’’ vote has two potential out-
comes. A ‘‘no’’ vote could lead to a se-
questration. People say that cuts 10
percent out of all spending. That
sounds good to me. The reality is that
happened over the last decade. We see
now the draconian impact that had on
certain parts of our discretionary
spending like military—veterans and
so forth—so we had to come back and
rebuild. When you come back and have
to rebuild it, it costs dramatically
much more. That is the point.
If we take a long-term view of this,
we have to end up voting yes to this.
The second outcome of a ‘‘no’’ vote is
actually more of the same.
Well, we will avoid sequestration, but
we will pass a continuing resolution
and kick the can down the road again
for the 187th time. It sounds easy. Ev-
erybody gets to go home. We pass a CR.
Yet the military gets gutted again—
devastated. It disrupts the supply
chain and keeps our vendors from hir-
ing people.
Imagine if you are a midcareer mili-
tary officer or noncommissioned offi-
cer—imagine what that tells you about
what we think of our military and our
men and women. I hear people on both
sides beat their chest: ‘‘I love our mili-
tary.’’ ‘‘We have to support our mili-
tary.’’ Then they vote no on a bill like
this. We cannot let that happen.
Ironically, because of the two alter-
natives, a ‘‘no’’ vote is actually a vote
to increase spending dramatically—not
just a little bit but dramatically—over
the next decade or so.
This bill is a compromise. People
back home tell us to come here and
work with the other side and com-
promise and make decisions and get to
a result. We just did that. President
Trump and Speaker PELOSI just did
that. That is what this is reflective of.
I am here to tell you today that it is
our job to back that up.
In closing, it is imperative that we
get this bill passed, allow our appropri-
ators to get busy and start appro-
priating, so by September 30—the end
of this fiscal year—we have a chance to
get the government funded. We know a
‘‘no’’ vote leads to more spending. It is
our responsibility to be fiscally respon-
sible, and I think a ‘‘yes’’ vote here
does just that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, I
am on the floor today to talk about a
crisis overseas.
Before I do, I just want to take one
moment. The Senator from Georgia
talked about the increases in defense
spending that we have done on a bipar-
tisan basis and suggested that it was
the prior administration that had gut-
ted defense spending. That is not true.
I think we should clear the record
about that.
In fact, in the first 3 years of the
Obama administration, defense spend-
ing was on the rise. It was the election
of a Republican Congress that led to
what we call sequestration—the down-
ward descent of discretionary spending
of both defense and nondefense dollars.
To the extent that my colleagues are
worried about what happened to de-
fense spending in the last 10 years,
there is only one explanation for that;
that is, the election of Republicans to
the House of Representatives in 2010
and their demand that in order to vote
for an increase in the debt ceiling, dis-
cretionary spending had to be slashed.
In the first several years of the Obama
administration, defense spending was
on the rise.
YEMEN
Madam President, I am on the floor
to once again talk about a dire human-
itarian nightmare happening on the
other side of the world in a country
called Yemen, the U.S. complicity in
that horror, and the national security
disaster that comes with staying in-
volved in this war.
I could have brought a bunch of much
more disturbing charts to the floor to
talk about the world’s worst humani-
tarian disaster—a country in and on
the brink of famine and with a cholera
epidemic that the world has never ever
seen before in recorded history. In-
stead, I chose to bring you a picture of
a child with his back turned to you in
order to spare you the worst of this
nightmare.
Before we break, I am here to make
an urgent plea to my colleagues be-
cause, as bad as the situation is today,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.009 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5286 August 1, 2019
it is about to get much worse over the
course of the summer and this fall.
There are millions of Yemenis who are
going to die if we don’t make some de-
cisions and pressure our allies to make
some decisions in the coming days. The
reason for this is simple.
At the beginning of this year, Saudi
Arabia and the UAE, which are the pri-
mary military partners with the
United States in Yemen, made a pledge
they have made in the past, which is
that while they would be dropping
bombs and fighting battles on the
ground in Yemen, they would be put-
ting up money to make sure that peo-
ple would be fed and that children
would be immunized. They made that
pledge at the beginning of this year.
We are now halfway through the year,
and the UAE and the Saudis have
reneged on that pledge.
Saudi Arabia pledged $750 million to
the United Nations. It still owes,
today, $630 million. The UAE pledged
$750 million. It still owes, today, $500
million. They have always been tough
negotiators and have been difficult to
get the money from, but this year is
different. This year, 6 months in, the
Saudis and the Emirates are essen-
tially saying: We are not giving the
U.N. its money.
If you meet with them, they will tell
you that they are spending that money
in other ways, that they are working
with other partners inside Yemen to do
the same kind of work. Don’t let them
put that argument over on you. There
is no one in Yemen who can do the nu-
trition work, the healthcare work, or
the anti-cholera work that the U.N.
can and does. There are no other part-
ners who have the capacity to keep
people alive like the U.N. You can’t
just create and stand up that capacity
outside of the United Nations.
If Saudi Arabia and the UAE were
not planning on giving the U.N. the
money, then they shouldn’t have prom-
ised it at the beginning of the year.
The U.N. went out and built infrastruc-
ture. It hired partners based on those
pledges. If the Emirates and the Saudis
were not planning on giving the
money, then they shouldn’t have prom-
ised it at the beginning of this year.
Let me tell you what is happening
right now inside Yemen.
Work has been suspended on 30 new
feeding centers in the most famine-
stricken parts of Yemen.
Vaccinations have been suspended for
13 million people, which increases the
risk for things like measles and ma-
laria.
The procurement of new medical sup-
plies and equipment has been sus-
pended.
UNICEF has stopped its clean water
and sanitation services for 8.4 million
people, including 3 million kids, which
means more cholera, and cholera is al-
ready on the rise. There have been
more cholera cases reported in the first
half of this year than had been re-
ported in all of 2018. There have been
half a million new cases of cholera just
in the first 6 months of this year.
A U.N.-supported treatment plant
that purifies water for agriculture has
started to shut down as well, meaning
an additional 4 million people could be
eating vegetables that are irrigated
with dirty water.
Starting very soon, the World Food
Programme will not be able to buy
vouchers for 3 million people.
Sixty more feeding centers will close
in the coming weeks.
The World Food Programme has
stopped providing nutrient bars to 2.6
million malnourished women and chil-
dren, which will tip them now into the
category of ‘‘severely malnourished,’’
just like this child is.
The U.N. is going to have to stop pro-
viding fuel for hospital generators.
There are 35,000 cancer patients who
will stop receiving treatment.
I could go on and on and on.
Why are we standing here? Why
aren’t we all pressing our friends—the
Saudis, our allies, the Emirates—to
come up with this money? While we all
enjoy our August recess, there are
going to be millions of children in
Yemen who will look like this who
don’t look like this today. There will
be hundreds of thousands who will ei-
ther die or reach the brink of death all
because of a war that the United States
has perpetuated and because of funding
commitments that can’t keep all of
these people alive, that can’t save all
of these children’s lives but that could
save tens of thousands of lives if our
friends, our allies, would simply do the
right thing.
I am furious about this, my col-
leagues, because I don’t know what the
Trump administration is getting for
this bear hug it has put around Saudi
Arabia. After the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi, we transferred to it more
nuclear technology and sold it more
weapons. Maybe the hope was, in ex-
change for that, Saudi Arabia would do
something about the humanitarian
nightmare, but it is making it worse.
Saudi Arabia is getting everything
from us, and it is not even feeding the
people on the ground in Yemen who are
dying as we speak.
At a 2015 campaign rally in Alabama,
the President said: I get along great
with the Saudis. They buy apartments
from me. They spend, like, $40 million,
$50 million. Am I supposed to dislike
them? I like them very much.
From 2016 to 2017, a lobbying firm
connected to the Saudi Government
paid $270,000 to the Trump Inter-
national Hotel in DC. In 2018, a 5-day
visit from Saudi officials to the Trump
International Hotel in New York City
helped to boost the hotel’s quarterly
revenue by 13 percent.
Boy, I hope this isn’t the reason the
administration isn’t pressing the
Saudis harder to come up with their
funding commitment, but the Presi-
dent has been pretty clear that the
Saudis send him and his family a lot of
money. He has been open about that. I
hope this is not the reason for our not
forcing our partners to step up. This is
life-or-death time right now. If the ad-
ministration is not going to do it, then
we will have to do it. Members of Con-
gress will have to do it.
I hope, before my colleagues go home
and enjoy some rest and relaxation
over the month of August, they will
get on the phone with their friends in
the Saudi Government, that they will
get on the phone with the Emirates
Government, and that they will get on
the phone with the Trump administra-
tion and tell them that it is time to
pony up the money they have pledged.
The United States is the No. 1 donor,
but we could do more. The Saudis and
the Emirates have come through on a
quarter of the money they have prom-
ised, and the consequences of that con-
tinuing are absolutely nightmarish. So,
before we go home for our break, let’s
do something to make sure that a
handful more of these kids are alive
when we come back.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
H.R. 3877
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, some
say it is irresponsible not to raise the
debt ceiling. Well, true fiscal conserv-
atives say it is irresponsible to raise
the debt ceiling without any reform of
our profligate spending ways. To allow
the debt ceiling to go up an infinite
amount—as much as Congress can pos-
sibly spend and borrow over a nearly 2-
year period—is fiscally irresponsible
and has never been seen in our history.
This may well be the most fiscally irre-
sponsible thing we have done in the
history of the United States.
The Federal Government is currently
spending nearly $2 million every
minute. Don’t let anybody fool you—
this is a spending problem. The annual
deficit this year will exceed $1.2 tril-
lion. What is irresponsible is recklessly
indenturing our children and our
grandchildren. What is irresponsible is
binding our kids to this massive burden
of debt. What is irresponsible is a Con-
gress that believes it is Santa Claus
and that it can be everything to every-
one and that everything is free.
At least the Democrats are honest.
The Democrats don’t care about defi-
cits, and they will tell you that to your
face. The Democrats, in fact, are fall-
ing all over themselves to propose
more than $50 trillion in new spending
in addition to the trillion-dollar annual
deficits. They want to add $50 trillion
in spending.
Yet it is not just the Democrats. The
Republicans are also guilty—at least
the Big Government Republicans who
will vote for this monstrous addition of
debt. Many of the supporters of this
debt deal ran around their States for
years and complained that President
Obama was spending too much and bor-
rowing too much. These same Repub-
licans now—the whole disingenuous lot
of them—will wiggle their way to the
front of the spending trough to vote for
as much or more debt than President
Obama ever added.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.011 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5287
August 1, 2019
Get this. All of those who said the
debt was bad under President Obama
will today snuggle their way up, wiggle
their way up to the spending trough,
and they will do exactly what they
condemned under President Obama.
Shame. Shame on the politicians who
have campaigned as conservatives but
who have governed as big spenders.
America, wake up. The two parties
are often one. The two parties that os-
tensibly fight are in reality one party
of big spenders, separated only by
where they want to spend the money.
The media reports of a lack of com-
promise. The opposite is true. There is
too much compromise, and the com-
promise is always more debt, more
porkbarrel spending, and more burden
for our kids.
Yet there is another path. There is
another form of compromise. Instead of
compromising to raise spending for
guns and butter, we could compromise
to hold the line on all spending. Just a
mere 2-percent cut in spending would
balance the budget over a 5-year pe-
riod—1 or 2 pennies out of a dollar. You
get to spend 98 percent of what you
spent last year, and we balance the
budget. Yet that is never enough be-
cause these people are not honest with
you. They are not willing to hold the
line. They want more, more, more.
More spending, though, means more
debt, and that is what we are getting.
So what I offer today is a compromise.
The right would have to deal with
less military spending. The right says:
Oh, we don’t have enough. Perhaps the
mission is too big for the budget. It
isn’t a lack of money. We spend more
money on the military than the next 10
countries combined. We spend more
money on the military than all of Eu-
rope spends. It isn’t a lack of money; it
is that the mission is too large. Why do
we have troops in 50 of 55 African coun-
tries? Why are we involved in every
civil war on the globe? We need to
question what our mission is. The left
would have to accept less welfare
spending or at least hold the line and
get 98 percent of what it spent last
year on welfare. The right would have
to spend 98 percent of what it spent on
the military last year. Guess what. We
would balance the budget.
My amendment is called cut, cap, and
balance. When the balanced budget is
passed and sent to the States, when
spending caps are in place and when
spending has been cut, then and only
then would we raise the debt ceiling.
This is the only responsible way of
dealing with this. It is irresponsible to
give a blank check to a government
that has shown itself to be so reckless
and for it to so recklessly disregard
any kind of sense of sanity with regard
to the budget.
Today’s votes, though, will be a lit-
mus test for fiscal conservatism. Those
Senators who vote for an unlimited in-
crease in the debt ceiling are not and
have no right to call themselves con-
servatives.
America, wake up, watch the votes
today, and discover who actually gives
a damn about the future of our coun-
try.
I yield the remainder of my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
AMENDMENT NO. 932
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, I call
up my amendment No. 932.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. PAUL]
proposes an amendment numbered 932 to
H.R. 3877.
Mr. PAUL. I ask unanimous consent
that the reading of the amendment be
waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cut, Cap,
and Balance Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEBT LIMIT INCREASE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date de-
scribed in subsection (b), the limitation in
effect under section 3101(b) of title 31, United
States Code, shall be increased by
$500,000,000,000.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The date described in
this subsection is the earliest of the date on
which the Archivist of the United States
transmits to the States S. J. Res. 3 (116th
Congress) in the form introduced on January
4, 2019, S. J. Res. 5 (116th Congress) in the
form introduced on January 24, 2019, a bal-
anced budget amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States, or a similar
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States if the amendment requires
that total outlays not exceed total receipts,
contains a spending limitation as a percent-
age of the gross domestic product, and re-
quires that tax increases be approved by a
two-thirds vote in both Houses of Congress
for their ratification.
SEC. 3. LIMIT FOR ON-BUDGET SPENDING.
(a) POINT OF ORDER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall not be in order in
the Senate or the House of Representatives
to consider any bill, joint resolution, mo-
tion, amendment, amendment between the
Houses, or conference report that would
cause the total amount of on-budget spend-
ing for any of fiscal years 2020 through 2029
to exceed the amount specified in paragraph
(2) with respect to such fiscal year.
(2) CAPS.—The amount specified in this
paragraph is the following:
(A) With respect to fiscal year 2020,
$3,435,880,000,000.
(B) With respect to fiscal year 2021,
$3,367,160,000,000.
(C) With respect to fiscal year 2022,
$3,299,820,000,000.
(D) With respect to fiscal year 2023,
$3,233,820,000,000.
(E) With respect to fiscal year 2024,
$3,169,150,000,000.
(F) With respect to fiscal year 2025,
$3,232,530,000,000.
(G) With respect to fiscal year 2026,
$3,297,180,000,000.
(H) With respect to fiscal year 2027,
$3,363,120,000,000.
(I) With respect to fiscal year 2028,
$3,430,390,000,000.
(J) With respect to fiscal year 2029,
$3,498,990,000,000.
(b) WAIVER AND APPEAL.—
(1) SENATE.—Subsection (a) may be waived
or suspended in the Senate only by an af-
firmative vote of three-fifths of the Mem-
bers, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative
vote of three-fifths of the Members of the
Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be re-
quired to sustain an appeal of the ruling of
the Chair on a point of order raised under
subsection (a).
(2) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) may be
waived or suspended in the House of Rep-
resentatives only by an affirmative vote of
three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and
sworn.
(B) POINT OF ORDER PROTECTION.—In the
House of Representatives, it shall not be in
order to consider a rule or order that waives
the application of subparagraph (A).
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Democratic
leader is recognized.
H.R. 3877
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in a
short time the Senate will vote on final
passage of a bipartisan agreement to
lift the budget caps for 2 years and ex-
tend the debt ceiling. It is an agree-
ment that will strengthen our national
security and provide our troops with
the resources they need to do a very
difficult and often dangerous job. Im-
portantly, it will clear the way for crit-
ical investments in America’s middle
class, as well as for those struggling to
get to the middle class, in healthcare,
education, childcare, cancer research,
our veterans, and more.
For too long, the arbitrary, draco-
nian limits of sequester have hampered
our ability to invest in working Ameri-
cans and our military readiness. This
deal ends the threat of sequester per-
manently. That is huge.
As large forces erode the financial se-
curity of the middle class—
globalization, automation, techno-
logical advancement—one of the only
forces large enough to push back on
the side of the middle class and help
them is the Federal Government.
Investing in education, healthcare,
infrastructure, and childcare is how we
give middle-class Americans greater
security and give Americans struggling
to get into the middle class a ladder
up—something this government has
done for decades and decades but hasn’t
been doing very well since the seques-
ter has been in effect.
The sequester has hamstrung our
ability to make investments in the
middle class for 8 years—but no longer.
Thank God.
Not only does this agreement end the
sequester, it includes a significant in-
crease in support for domestic prior-
ities. In fact, the budget deal increases
domestic budget authority $10 billion
more than defense. In the 3 years of
Trump’s Presidency and a Republican
Senate, Democrats have secured over
$100 billion in increases for domestic
programs. That means additional re-
sources for the States to combat the
opioid epidemic; support for VA hos-
pitals caring for our veterans; cancer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.012 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5288 August 1, 2019
research and other critical medical re-
search that have saved the lives of lit-
erally millions; climate and clean en-
ergy technology; reducing the burden
of college debt; infrastructure and
transportation improvements.
So this $100 billion is not abstract. It
means jobs; it means ladders up; and it
means hope for the American people,
who are often pushed around by forces
much larger than themselves.
Finally, this legislation lays the
groundwork to avoid another govern-
ment shutdown and will preserve the
full faith and credit of the United
States.
As my colleagues know well, the
House has already passed this legisla-
tion and recessed for the State work
period. The President supports it. Re-
portedly he is calling Members to en-
courage them to vote yes. The final
piece to this puzzle is the Senate’s
stamp of approval.
I want to salute Senator LEAHY, our
ranking member, all of the members of
the Appropriations Committee, and all
of those who came up with this bipar-
tisan agreement.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to vote yes. Let’s give our
military, our middle class a boost be-
fore the Senate adjourns today.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 932
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question occurs on agreeing to the
Paul Amendment No. 932.
Mr. PAUL. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 23,
nays 70, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 260 Leg.]
YEAS—23
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cornyn
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Moran
Paul
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Toomey
Young
NAYS—70
Alexander
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 23, the nays are 70.
Under the previous order requiring 60
votes for the adoption of this amend-
ment, the amendment is not agreed to.
The amendment (No. 932) was re-
jected.
The majority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the re-
maining votes be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 165, H.R. 3877, a bill to amend the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985, to establish a congressional
budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to tem-
porarily suspend the debt limit, and for
other purposes.
Lamar Alexander, Thom Tillis, Martha
McSally, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, Susan M. Collins, Tom
Cotton, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
Bill Cassidy, John Thune, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Rob Portman,
Lisa Murkowski, Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on H.R. 3877, a bill
to amend the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985,
to establish a congressional budget for
fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to tempo-
rarily suspend the debt limit, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 67,
nays 27, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 261 Leg.]
YEAS—67
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—27
Bennet
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cotton
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Fischer
Gardner
Hawley
Johnson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
Paul
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Tester
Tillis
Toomey
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 67, the nays are 27.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I sup-
port the bipartisan budget deal that
will extend the debt ceiling and lift the
current budgets caps for the next 2
years.
This important deal will avoid harm-
ful cuts to domestic priorities, prevent
a default on our Nation’s debt, and fi-
nally allow appropriators to get to
work on this year’s appropriations bills
to fund the government.
Despite proposing draconian cuts in
his budget, I am glad that President
Trump has agreed to join Democrats in
permanently ending the threat of se-
quester.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.013 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5289
August 1, 2019
For too long, sequestration has hand-
cuffed Congress’s ability to make in-
vestments in middle-class priorities
that advance the health, financial se-
curity, and well-being of the American
people.
I am pleased that this agreement
goes even further than previous budget
deals by increasing nondefense spend-
ing by $10 billion more than defense
spending.
With this budget deal, Democrats
have secured an increase of more than
$100 billion in funding for domestic pri-
orities since President Trump took of-
fice.
I am especially pleased that this
budget deal will allow us to continue
making the big investments in medical
research conducted at the National In-
stitutes of Health, as well as the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, that will improve and save lives.
Because of NIH funding, new treat-
ments have been developed that re-
duced cancer deaths more than 25 per-
cent over past two decades.
Thirty years ago, HIV was a death
sentence. Because of NIH funding, that
is no longer the case.
Because of NIH-funded research,
deaths from heart disease and stroke
have fallen by nearly 80 percent since
1970.
Because of NIH funding, we are on
the verge of curing—yes, curing—sickle
cell anemia.
Consider this: Between 2010 and 2016,
the Food and Drug Administration ap-
proved more than 200 new drugs and
treatments for use in the United
States; every single one of them was
developed with NIH dollars.
Congress has recognized the impor-
tance of NIH, which is why we have, on
a bipartisan basis, provided the NIH
with $9 billion in additional funding
over the past 4 years, a 30 percent in-
crease in that time.
This agreement will allow us to con-
tinue those vital investments.
Most importantly, this agreement
will help prevent another harmful gov-
ernment shutdown from occurring this
fall.
While not perfect, this budget deal
will finally allow Congress to get to
work on this year’s appropriations bills
and invest in the programs that the
American people rely on.
I hope that my colleagues will join
me in passing this agreement with
overwhelming bipartisan support.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all cloture time is
expired.
The clerk will read the title of the
bill for the third time.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
Mr. WICKER. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 67,
nays 28, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 262 Leg.]
YEAS—67
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—28
Bennet
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cassidy
Cotton
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Fischer
Gardner
Hawley
Johnson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
Paul
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Tester
Tillis
Toomey
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
The bill (H.R. 3877) was passed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President,
when the Senate gavels out at the end
of this day, Members will head home
for the August work period to spend
time with our constituents and family.
I, for one, am eager to get back home
to Texas and spend time with folks in
about every region in my State. I have
the honor of representing roughly 28
million people, and it takes a little bit
of time and effort to get around the
State, but I am looking forward to it.
I will have the chance to highlight
some of the work that we have been
doing here in Washington and, yes,
hear from my constituents, my fellow
Texans, on what they care most about,
what they agree with, what they dis-
agree with, and everything in between.
With the passage of this bipartisan
budget deal, we have now taken care of
our final piece of business for this work
period. The funding agreement we just
passed will provide stability for our
Nation through 2020 and deliver on
some of the administration’s key prior-
ities. It has been the result of extensive
negotiations between President Trump
and Speaker PELOSI and represents a
compromise between two sides that
typically don’t agree on much, and,
yes, ‘‘compromise’’ is still not a dirty
word. It is the only way things get
done around here.
Obviously, this agreement is not per-
fect. That is the nature of compromise
and the hallmark of responsible gov-
ernment. By passing this funding
agreement, we are avoiding the possi-
bility of a government shutdown again
this fall. Instead, it provides us the
time and space for wide-ranging debate
about our government’s spending hab-
its. As our national deficit continues to
grow, that could not be more critical.
I was glad to see that through the
President’s tough negotiations, it pre-
vents 30 poison pills—or policy riders—
from reaching the President’s desk. It
is no secret that our friends across the
aisle have tried their best to eliminate
the Hyde amendment, which, since
1976, has defined a consensus that no
taxpayer funds be provided for abor-
tions. That argument is over until 2020.
We also know there will be no Green
New Deal done—no undoing of the
President’s regulatory reform through
the backdoor.
Most importantly though, this fund-
ing agreement invests in our military.
If there is one priority for what we
ought to be doing here as elected rep-
resentatives in the Federal Govern-
ment, it is to provide for the common
defense and for our national security.
This funding agreement provides the
Pentagon with the predictability and
flexibility they need in order to keep
our country safe today and tomorrow.
A predictable and steady budget gives
our military leaders the ability to plan
for the future and allows them to in-
vest in the innovative and cutting-edge
tools our servicemembers need and en-
sure that when the call comes, we are
ready.
I was proud to support this funding
agreement, and I am glad it is now
headed to the White House for the
President’s signature.
f
DEBBIE SMITH ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, over
the last few months, I have spoken at
length on the Senate floor about a bill
I introduced earlier this year to reau-
thorize the Debbie Smith Act—legisla-
tion to help us end the nationwide rape
kit backlog.
This legislation carries the name of a
fierce and courageous woman—a sexual
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.010 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5290 August 1, 2019
assault survivor whose advocacy was
born of her personal experience.
Three decades ago, Debbie Smith was
taken from her home and taken to a
wooded area where she was robbed and
raped by an unknown attacker. She re-
ported the crime to police and went to
the emergency room for a forensic
exam, but because of the rape kit back-
log, she had to wait 61⁄2 years before fi-
nally receiving the call that her
attacker had been identified through a
DNA test.
During that time, she lived in con-
stant fear, wondering who he was,
where he was, and whether he would re-
turn to hurt her again. Identifying of-
fenders through DNA evidence is crit-
ical to providing not only justice but
peace of mind for those assaulted and
delivering justice to victims, and, yes,
even exonerating the innocent. The
power of DNA testing is such that it
can essentially rule out people from
being the alleged assailant or the ac-
tual assailant. So this is really impor-
tant for a number of reasons.
Sharing this information across
State lines through the Federal system
can help us identify repeat offenders
who would otherwise go undetected.
Knowing the potential impact, Debbie
became one of our Nation’s most vocal
advocates for eliminating rape kit
backlogs, including the reprehensible
rape kit backlog I have been speaking
about.
In 2004, a bill that carries her name
was signed into law to help local and
State crime labs partner with Federal
law enforcement to receive resources
to end the Federal DNA evidence back-
log. It is because of the Debbie Smith
Act that more than a billion dollars
has been provided to forensic labs
across the country.
Since 2005, more than 860,000 DNA
cases have been processed, accounting
for 43 percent of all forensic profiles in
the FBI’s DNA database.
The Debbie Smith Act has also been
central in eliminating the rape kit
backlog in my home State of Texas,
which had reached the point of more
than 20,000 untested kits at one point
earlier this decade.
As I said at the beginning, I intro-
duced the Debbie Smith Act of 2019 to
reauthorize this important funding
stream that supports the auditing,
testing, and sharing of DNA evidence
so we can eliminate that backlog and
ensure that it will not grow again in
the future. The benefits of continuing
the programs created under the origi-
nal Debbie Smith Act cannot be over-
stated, and we must get this important
legislation to the President’s desk be-
fore it expires at the end of September.
Since it was first enacted in 2004, the
Debbie Smith Act has never lapsed or
expired, and there is no excuse for al-
lowing it to expire or lapse this year.
This bill is not controversial; it is not
partisan; and it is not divisive. In fact,
when it came to the Senate floor, not a
single Senator voted against it.
Since we passed the legislation in
May, the House of Representatives has
sat on its hands and has done nothing.
After repeated requests from myself,
our other colleagues, and countless vic-
tims’ advocates, Speaker PELOSI has
refused to bring the Debbie Smith Act
up for a vote.
Earlier this week, the Fraternal
Order of Police, which represents more
than 348,000 members, sent a letter to
Speaker PELOSI and Leader MCCARTHY
urging the House to move this legisla-
tion.
We also heard from the National Dis-
trict Attorneys Association, RAINN,
the Sergeants Benevolent Association,
and several other law enforcement and
victims’ rights groups which are fully
supportive of this legislation. All of us
are ready for the House to act.
I urge Speaker PELOSI to take up the
Debbie Smith Act once the House re-
turns to Washington in September and
before it expires or lapses. It is simply
unconscionable to let unrelated par-
tisan bickering stop a bill that brings
justice to victims.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, first,
I want to compliment the leadership in
being able to come together on a budg-
et agreement. This was a good day for
the Senate, a good day for Congress,
and a good day for the American peo-
ple.
We now have predictable spending
caps not only for the fiscal year that
begins October 1 but for the following
year. This is good news. It provides the
predictability we need in order to have
early process for the consideration of
the appropriations bills. When we re-
turn in September, it is our anticipa-
tion that the House and Senate Appro-
priations Committees will be hard at
work, and we will have an opportunity
to get our work done prior to the be-
ginning of the fiscal year on October 1.
I want to explain why I think this
was the right vote and why I proudly
supported it. It provides a reasonable
growth rate for discretionary spending.
If you look at the trend line over sev-
eral decades, you will find that discre-
tionary spending has become a smaller
and smaller part of the Federal budget.
We held back on discretionary spending
in this country, whether it is defense
or nondefense needs, and those needs
have grown.
We have not kept up with the needs
of funding these programs. This budget
agreement will now give us the oppor-
tunity to set priorities and move for-
ward with many important programs
that are funded by discretionary spend-
ing. Once again, discretionary spending
has grown much slower than the
growth rate of our budget, generally.
It is a reasonable expectation that we
can meet the needs of the people of this
country by allowing some growth.
What does it mean? Well, this past
week, the Environment and Public
Works Committee has recommended a
transportation reauthorization bill for
service transportation that would grow
by about 10 percent. I think everyone
in this Chamber understands that we
have tremendous unmet needs in trans-
portation infrastructure in this coun-
try. These caps give us a better oppor-
tunity of meeting those types of needs.
Tomorrow I will be in the city of
Bowie—which is not far from here—
meeting with the mayor who has a sim-
ple request: His drinking water pipes
need major maintenance or replace-
ment. There is not enough capacity
within the ratepayers in order to be
able to do that work. He needs the Fed-
eral partnership, State-revolving funds,
or other areas in order to help fund a
modern water infrastructure so we
have safe drinking water in our com-
munity.
These budget caps, again, give us the
opportunity to move forward on pro-
grams like that so the Federal Govern-
ment can help us meet our needs.
I am proud, in the State of Maryland,
that we have the National Institutes of
Health located and headquartered in
our State. We are all very proud of the
work they do. They are unlocking the
mystery of diseases in this country. We
need to fund them. At the present
time, so many worthwhile grant appli-
cations go unmet and unfilled that
could discover how we could deal with
some of the most dreaded diseases in
our country. Funding NIH is in our na-
tional interest, but we have been held
back because of the budget caps that
have been in place. This allows us now
to move forward with that priority.
This is the year we prepare for the
census. We only do that every 10 years.
We take the census of our country.
This budget will allow the Census Bu-
reau to have the tools so we can accu-
rately count the people in this country.
Why is that important? The Constitu-
tion says it is important. It is impor-
tant so we have proper legislative rep-
resentation in the congressional dis-
tricts as well as in the State legisla-
tures. That gives us the numbers so the
communities are properly represented
and so their voices can be adequately
heard. It is also used for distribution of
Federal funds so proper distribution
can be made to the people of this coun-
try. I can go on with a whole list of
issues that are important. Each one is
important.
We will set the priorities, whether it
is childcare or dealing with our vet-
erans. We all talk about how we want
to do what is right for our veterans. We
know there are a lot of unmet needs.
This budget will allow us to move for-
ward in that area.
I am proud to represent the State of
Maryland that has major urban cen-
ters. This bill will allow us to deal with
some of the challenges we have in our
urban centers.
I also represent rural Maryland. This
bill will allow us to move forward with
their needs. We will be able to move
forward on education, which should be
our top priority. It is a great equalizer
in this country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.021 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5291
August 1, 2019
Now the appropriators have to make
those judgments on the priorities, and
we will have to reconcile between the
House and Senate and get the Presi-
dent’s signature.
That is what we should be doing—set-
ting the priorities for our country but
having a reasonable pool of money to
deal with discretionary spending. We
have been denied that for many years.
Now we have the opportunity to do
what Congress should do and set the
priorities for this country.
In addition, we have the drug prob-
lems. I probably have more meetings in
my State on dealing with the drug cri-
sis. It is in every community in Mary-
land and this Nation. I hope we will see
increased Federal participation in that
area.
Another part of the budget agree-
ment was to extend the debt limit for
2 years. This, to me, is one of the ab-
surdities of what we do on debt limits.
We incur money—we incur debt—and
then we put a limit as to whether we
will pay for the bills we incurred. You
don’t default on your debt. That is not
what America is about. We have to
control what we spend, but we have to
pay for what we spend. We have to
honor our debt. Our credit ratings were
at risk. The Secretary of Treasury
made this one of his top priorities. I
agreed with him on this issue. Now we
no longer have the fear that America
will not honor its debt.
The bill also gets rid of sequestra-
tion. Good riddance. This was put in as
a placeholder for us to deal with the
budget deficit. It didn’t work in that
way. All it did was cause uncertainty,
and in many respects, it would have re-
quired across-the-board cuts. That is
not the way we should do business. We
have to make decisions. Sequestration
could have been used for us to avoid
making the tough decisions. We have
to do that ourselves.
The bottom line is the budget agree-
ment gets rid of that and gives us a
much better chance of avoiding a gov-
ernment shutdown, which makes abso-
lutely no sense at all, and of, hopefully,
not having to deal with continuing res-
olutions. Continuing resolutions put us
on autopilot because we can’t pass a
budget. Now, I hope we will be able to
pass budgets and avoid not only shut-
downs but continuing resolutions.
I want to emphasize this point. Dis-
cretionary spending has become a
smaller part of the overall budget of
this country. It has been a shrieking
song. So why do we have growing defi-
cits? By the way, discretionary spend-
ing is at historically low levels in this
country. Revenues, unfortunately, are
also at historically low levels. In other
words, we are not raising the tradi-
tional amount of revenue that is nec-
essary for us to pay our bills.
I come from a family who believes
you have to pay your bills. I think it is
wrong for us to spend money today and
ask our children and grandchildren to
pay for our current spending. We
should have the courage to provide the
revenues that are necessary to pay our
bills. Instead, what have we done? We
have cut revenues again and again so
our deficit today is not sustainable. We
have to deal with it.
The major culprit has been these ir-
responsible tax cuts, the last of which
went primarily to the wealthiest peo-
ple in the country. According to the
Congressional Budget Office, it will add
$1.9 trillion to the deficit over the next
decade. That is the culprit of the defi-
cits, and that is what we should be
dealing with.
I have heard a lot of my colleagues
come in here and lament this agree-
ment. They have said it is going to add
to the deficit. Some of these people are
the same people who voted for the tax
cut. Let’s be direct about this. We have
to have the revenues that are nec-
essary to pay for what we incur in
spending.
Yes, there is another area in which
we can do better, and that is in
healthcare spending, much of which is
mandatory spending, not discretionary
spending. These are the appropriations
that have to be made. We can do a
much better job of reining in the cost
of healthcare. We had a chance to do
that this week, but we didn’t take full
advantage of that.
I am a member of the Senate Com-
mittee on Finance. We passed a bill to
deal with the escalating costs of pre-
scription drugs. Today, in Maryland, I
have been told one out of every four
healthcare dollars is spent on medi-
cines. We pay so much more in Amer-
ica for medicines than do the other in-
dustrialized nations of the world.
Yes, we have recommended to the
Senate body a bill to deal with the cost
of prescription medicines. It will deal
with the issue of putting a cap on the
escalation of the current drug prices. It
will put a cap on the out-of-pocket
costs that the people on Medicare Part
D will have to pay. That is good. Those
are two good things.
We had a chance to really make a dif-
ference by eliminating the prohibition
in the current law that prevents Medi-
care from negotiating the costs of
medicines. Think about that for one
moment. Where else do we do that? We
tell businesses they can’t leverage all
of their buying to get the lowest pos-
sible prices, and we tell Medicare it
can’t leverage the total market it is
paying in order to get the best price on
prescription medicines.
What does that mean? That means
we are overpaying. Whether you are
paying it in Part D premiums, whether
you are paying it in private insurance
premiums, or whether you are paying
it as a taxpayer, we are paying too
much for medicines. It is the primary
reason the international price on medi-
cines is so much lower than what we
pay in America.
We had a chance to deal with it this
week, and we didn’t. We will have an-
other opportunity when the bill comes
to the floor, and I hope we will do the
right thing by removing the prohibi-
tion that is in the current law on nego-
tiating price.
I am very pleased we got this budget
agreement done. No, I am not pleased
about the deficit, but I recognize that
we need to deal with revenues and that
we need to deal with costs like pre-
scription drugs, which were not part of
today’s vote. I hope, when we return in
September, the good will we have used
in order to get this budget agreement
done will continue and that the appro-
priators will be able to reconcile their
appropriations bills before October 1 so
we will not need continuing resolutions
and so there will be no threat of a gov-
ernment shutdown.
I hope we will have the same type of
bipartisan commitment by which peo-
ple have expressed their outrage on the
growth of the deficit in order to deal
with the real causes of the deficit. We
will have a chance on prescription
medicines to deal with those costs.
Let’s have the courage to sit down and
make sure we raise the revenues we
need in order to pay for our expenses.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The as-
sistant Democratic leader.
f
HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
SPECIALIST MICHAEL ISAIAH NANCE
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
rise on my behalf and on the behalf of
Senator TAMMY DUCKWORTH to express
my condolences to the family of SPC
Michael Isaiah Nance. He and fellow
paratrooper, PFC Brandon Jay
Kreischer, of Ohio, gave their lives in
service to our country on July 29 in
Uruzgan Province, Afghanistan.
The early reports on their deaths are
that they were shot by an Afghan sol-
dier at a military base—a so-called
green on blue attack. The incident is
under investigation. Isaiah was 24
years old. Isaiah was the 96th Illinois
servicemember to have been killed in
Afghanistan since our invasion began
in 2001, and he is 1 of 2,289 American
troops who have died there since that
invasion. He was a proud and out-
standing member of the 82nd Airborne.
Since enlisting in 2017, he earned the
Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, and the
Combat Infantryman Badge, and he
qualified as a Basic Parachutist.
As a member of the Nance family
noted, ‘‘He loved his country and want-
ed to serve his country. He died doing
something that he loved.’’
Isaiah arrived in Afghanistan just a
few weeks ago, shortly after a trip to
Europe with his mother Shawn
Gregoire. He and thousands of other
Americans who are still there were de-
ployed in support of our NATO-led mis-
sion to train, advise, and assist the Af-
ghan Army, a mission known as Oper-
ation Freedom’s Sentinel. As fate
would have it, when uniformed Army
personnel arrived at his house to break
this terrible news to his family, much
of the family had already gathered
after having attended the funeral of
the Nances’ great-grandfather, Sam
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.022 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5292 August 1, 2019
Forest, Jr., who had served in the U.S.
Army during the Korean war.
As one member of Isaiah’s family
noted, ‘‘It was the worst day in our
family’s history.’’
Isaiah was raised by his mother and
grandparents in Chatham, which is on
the South Side of Chicago. He attended
college in Florida. After 2 years, he in-
sisted to his mother that he wanted to
join the Army. He wanted to continue
his family’s tradition of military serv-
ice not only as his great-grandfather
had but also as several members of his
family still do in the Chicago Police
Department.
He told his mother he wanted to pur-
sue his dream. He promised her that
after it was over, he would finish his
degree. Shortly after enlisting, he com-
pleted basic training and earned his
wings at the Airborne School at Fort
Benning, GA. He became an Automatic
Rifleman who was assigned to Com-
pany B, First Battalion, 505th Para-
chute Infantry Regiment of the storied
82nd Airborne Division.
The motto of the 82nd Airborne is
‘‘Airborne all the way.’’ Isaiah lived
every bit of this motto in his faithful
service to America and with his family
and friends. He enjoyed wrestling, trav-
eling the world, and cheering for his
beloved Chicago White Sox. He was a
foodie. He loved good soul food. Per-
haps, most especially, he loved spend-
ing time with his younger brother.
As a member of his family noted, he
was ‘‘energetic, athletic, funny, hum-
ble’’—all of the things you would want
your kid to be.
Every Member of the Senate would
be proud to have a son like Isaiah. All
of the Members join me in expressing
their condolences to his family at this
painful moment and in grieving with
them over Isaiah’s bright light—ended
all too soon.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President,
we just had our last vote here in the
Senate before going into the August re-
cess, and I am looking forward to being
home in Ohio during the week. I come
here during the week and go home on
the weekends, but during this August
recess period, it gives me a chance to
get all around the State because we are
home during the workweek.
I will be in a few dozen counties by
the end of the recess, but I am going to
start by being at the Ohio State Fair
tomorrow. Tomorrow morning at 7:30
a.m., we have the biggest ag event in
the State, which is our annual ag
breakfast. I will be hearing from farm-
ers from all over the State.
It has been a tough year for us in
Ohio. Because of all the water, we have
had lots of farmers who weren’t able to
plant their crops, and, therefore, there
are some fields that are bare. Others
who did plant their crops have found
that their crops aren’t doing very well
because of all of the water damage
early in the year.
So it has been a hard year, and,
frankly, it has been a hard few years in
terms of the price, particularly, of corn
and soybeans. On top of that, we have
less exports of soybeans, which I hope
is now being addressed with the new
agreements being made with relation
to China in particular, but that has put
pressure on price, because without hav-
ing those additional overseas markets,
it has had the effect of lowering the
price, particularly for soybeans and
corn. On top of that, it has just been
generally a tough time in farm country
in terms of the price of inputs going up
and the price of the product being flat.
So my hope is that tomorrow I will
get more input from farmers all across
the State, and we will be able to con-
tinue to talk about the things we are
doing.
I supported the U.S. Department of
Agriculture providing some emergency
loans and grants to Ohio farmers to get
us through this season to avoid bank-
ruptcies and to get people back on
their feet. That money is now begin-
ning to flow, I am happy to say. We are
beginning to see some progress. The
new farm bill is helping.
So my hope is that we will see better
weather here going into the end of the
season for these crops, that the harvest
season will be better, and that we will
be able to get back on our feet.
Also tomorrow, after touring the
fair, I will be having some meetings
with the business community, talking
about what is working and what is not
working in terms of regulations and
taxes.
I will also be meeting with business
leadership about how to get these new
opportunity zones in the tax bill up
and going. At those meetings, we will
have community leaders and we will
have people from neighborhoods that
have had a tough time. Even during the
economic growth, we have seen that
some neighborhoods have been left be-
hind. They still have relatively high
unemployment, and they still have real
problems of stubborn poverty. These
opportunity zones are a perfect exam-
ple there. This actually puts money
into these communities by lowering
and sometimes removing altogether
the capital gains taxes for people if
they agree to invest.
I will be talking to small businesses
and housing advocates who are excited
about this and see how this is working
in Columbus, OH.
I will also be in Youngstown, OH,
early next week, talking about this
same topic, as well as some other eco-
nomic development issues we have
there in terms of how we deal with the
Lordstown plant, the plant that Gen-
eral Motors, unfortunately, has chosen
to walk away from, which is very dis-
couraging.
So we will be all over the State.
On Saturday, I will be at the largest
gathering in the country of watercraft,
which is the annual Paddlefest, with
more kayaks and canoes on the Ohio
River than any other event in the
country. I will be participating in a
charity race—I think this is an 11-mile
race this year—with my son, going
down the Ohio River, all for a good
cause. I look forward to that as well.
I will be all over the State. It is an
opportunity to visit the State, talk to
constituents, hear what is going on,
and try to be more helpful here in
Washington to address the real con-
cerns we have in Ohio.
One of the things I will be doing next
weekend is visiting the Cuyahoga Val-
ley National Park. I will be touring the
park, looking at what some of their
maintenance needs are, and talking to
the Park Rangers.
Cuyahoga Valley National Park is
actually the 13th most visited national
park in America. You probably haven’t
heard of it, unless you are from Ohio.
But if you are from Akron or Cleve-
land, you certainly know about it be-
cause it is nestled right in between
these two big cities, and it gets a lot of
visitors and a lot of school kids. It is
an incredible park because it is really a
suburban and urban, as well as rural,
park all at once. There is a lot of out-
door education going on there. There is
a beautiful river that runs through it,
the Cuyahoga River. There is also a
train that can commute you back and
forth. I will be there with Ohio Sec-
retary of State Frank LaRose, doing a
kayak trip down the river, again look-
ing at some of the needs the park has.
This leads me to a topic I had hoped
to discuss on the floor yesterday, but
because of a string of votes we were un-
able to do so. I was going to be out here
on the floor giving a colloquy with
some of my colleagues—Senator ALEX-
ANDER, Senator WARNER, Senator KING,
and others. We were going to talk
about the need for us to provide more
repairs in our national parks.
Unfortunately, Cuyahoga Valley Na-
tional Park is one of those parks badly
in need of it. We have about a $48 mil-
lion maintenance backlog. What does
that mean? It means that every year
we do fund the parks, but we don’t fund
these capital expenses that are needed.
In the case of Cuyahoga Valley, as an
example, there is an old railroad bridge
they use for pedestrian traffic that is
falling apart, and they may have to
close it off soon. For every year that
you don’t attend to this deferred main-
tenance, things get worse and worse.
Think about your own home. If you
stop taking care of the roof, what hap-
pens? You get a leak, and then you
have drywall damage. Then, you have
paint damage. So the Federal Govern-
ment over time has not taken care of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.024 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5293
August 1, 2019
the parks and not provided the right
stewardship in terms of these longer
term deferred maintenance projects.
Yes, we fund the naturalist programs
and we fund the immediate needs of the
park, but these, frankly, more expen-
sive items, like deferred maintenance,
do not get funded. My hope is that we
will pass legislation to do that.
For more than a century, we have
been blessed as Americans to have
these National Parks. They are amaz-
ing. Some of you have experienced the
majesty of the Yellowstones, Yosem-
ites, and Grand Tetons of the world.
They are amazing. There are some
more modest ones, like the boyhood
home of William Howard Taft in Ohio,
that maybe you don’t know as well, but
they are all important. A lot of them
are focused on history, in terms of the
historic homes. There are now 84 mil-
lion acres of national parks and histor-
ical sites. They attract over 330 million
visitors every year. Think about that.
That is more than the population of
our country.
Again, we have eight of those parks
in Ohio. We are proud of those. And 2.7
million visitors go to Ohio’s National
Parks every year. They are part of our
history and part of our culture. This
$12 billion backlog of long-delayed
maintenance needs is a real concern,
though. It is $12 billion now. These
parks are treasures, but they have un-
fortunately been allowed to deteriorate
to the point that some of the assets in
these parks are totally unusable.
If you go to a park today, you might
find out that a trail is closed or a visi-
tors center can’t be visited. We have a
visitors center in Ohio that had to be
closed down because the roof was leak-
ing. They didn’t have the funds to re-
place the roof. They had funds to run
the programs within the visitors cen-
ter, but these long-term maintenance
problems are a real problem. You may
find that some of the overnight lodging
facilities are not available.
In a way, our parks are crumbling
from within. They may look good on
the outside, but they have serious
problems.
I mentioned the fact that we have
long-term maintenance problems at
Cuyahoga Valley National Park. We
also have that at others, to the point of
about $100 million in backlogs.
Last August, I visited Perry’s Vic-
tory and International Peace Memorial
on the shores of Lake Erie, which was
established on Lake Erie to honor
those who fought in the famous Battle
of Lake Erie during the war of 1812, as
well as to celebrate the now long-
standing peace we have had between
Great Britain, Canada, and the United
States. There, I saw $48 million in long-
delayed maintenance needs at the site,
primarily a seawall. There is a seawall
on Lake Erie to keep Lake Erie from
destroying the park, and it is cracking.
There are actually sinkholes around it.
So you can’t walk near the seawall for
fear of falling into a sinkhole. This is
something that needs attention, and it
needs it now. Yet think of the expense
of replacing a huge seawall, about a $48
billion project, when you add to that
the need to make the visitors center
accessible under the ADA, or the Amer-
icans with Disabilities Act. That is an
example.
I mentioned President Taft’s first
place. The house was in pretty good
condition, and, unfortunately, it now
has some problems. It has roofing prob-
lems, and about $2 million worth of re-
pairs are necessary and needed there.
I also visited Hopewell Culture Na-
tional Historical Park in Chillicothe.
There you see millennia-old burial
sites from pre-Columbian times. Again,
there are about $3.5 million in unmet
maintenance needs at the site, includ-
ing repairs to the exterior of the visi-
tors center that was absolutely needed.
You can see why when you go there, be-
cause there are construction signs in
front of it. You can go in the Visitors
Center, but pretty soon you will not be
able to at all.
Our parks have had a lot of issues
that have built up over time. This de-
ferred maintenance is really impor-
tant. So we have legislation to address
that. It is important that we do it now
because if we don’t, the costs just go
higher. For taxpayers, it is a good deal
to move now to make these improve-
ments so that the costs don’t com-
pound and you make the situation even
worse.
This is at a time when more and
more people want to go to our parks.
Visitation over the last 10 years has in-
creased by about 58 million people.
That is putting a lot of pressure on the
parks, of course. But it is good that
people want to go to our parks. Our na-
tional treasures are a great place to go
with your family, but we can’t keep
the parks healthy through bandaids
alone. We need this legislation.
Along with my colleagues Senators
MARK WARNER, LAMAR ALEXANDER, and
ANGUS KING, about whom I spoke ear-
lier—two Republicans, one Democrat,
and one Independent—we have pro-
posed what is called the Restore Our
Parks Act. It is a commonsense solu-
tion.
Specifically, the legislation creates
what is called a legacy restoration
fund, which will get half of all the an-
nual energy revenues over the next 5
years that are not otherwise allocated
to be used for these priority deferred
maintenance projects. This money
would come from royalties from our
offshore and onshore energy projects.
By the way, the Trump administra-
tion is doing more energy exploration
and development. So there is actually
more funding coming out of here. The
funding and the royalty would go to
this purpose to the extent it is not
being used for other purposes. The bill
caps deposits into the fund at $1.3 bil-
lion annually, which would provide a
total of $6.5 billion for deferred mainte-
nance over the next 5 years.
You might notice that $6.5 is not the
$12 billion we need, but, No. 1, it is a
great start. No. 2, we have asked the
Park Service to give us a specific list
of what are the most urgent problems,
and that is about $6.5 billion. We will
continue to work on this, but right now
we need that funding badly because,
again, if we don’t provide it, not only
will the parks not be there for people
to enjoy, with certain assets off limits,
but also the costs only get higher and
higher. It is a historic step in the right
direction.
Last Congress, we proposed this leg-
islation and we got a lot of support. We
had a total of 40 cosponsors here in the
Senate, more than one-third of this
Chamber. There was a House bill also
offered, companion legislation in the
House, that actually got 302 Members
supporting it. So these are totally bi-
partisan approaches. That is two-thirds
of the House of Representatives.
We also got it through our com-
mittee here in the Senate last year.
The Senate Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee passed a bill on a
bipartisan basis by a vote of 19 to 4.
Importantly, we also received sup-
port from all over the country. As peo-
ple found out about this legislation,
people who love the parks stepped for-
ward. It includes the Pew Charitable
Trusts, the National Parks Conserva-
tion Association, the Outdoor Industry
Alliance, the National Trust for Public
Land, and others. During the legisla-
tion hearing last year, the director of
the Pew Charitable Trusts agreed, say-
ing: ‘‘Supporting this bipartisan bill is
a wise investment for our National
Parks System and has overwhelming
support from the American public, gen-
erates hundreds of thousands of jobs
and billions of dollars for the economy
each year and provides access to world
class recreation opportunities and
helps preserve our nation’s history.’’
That is all true.
This is a critical piece of legislation
that we can actually all agree on here
on a bipartisan basis. We urge that it
be moved quickly.
As we enter the August recess, a lot
of my colleagues are going to go to one
of our national parks or more. Some of
them live, as one told me recently, in
the shadow of one of our national
parks. Folks who live in places like
Montana and Wyoming see the parks
all the time. As I said, I will be at our
largest park, Cuyahoga Valley Na-
tional Park. This is a time for us to see
the parks, tour the parks, find out
what the needs are, and, hopefully,
come back here to Congress in Sep-
tember and do something about this
deferred maintenance.
I urge my colleagues, first, on the
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee, to take this bill up. Let’s mark
it up, again, as soon as possible after
the recess. Let’s not wait any longer
until things get worse. I look forward
to working with my colleagues to get
this legislation on the floor of the Sen-
ate, to get it voted on, and to have a
companion bill that is still being
worked on in the House voted on as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.027 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5294 August 1, 2019
well. Let’s get something done and
send it to the President for his signa-
ture so we can ensure that these treas-
ures, our national parks, are there for
generations to come.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from New Jersey.
f
EBOLA ERADICATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise today to draw attention to the
growing risks of an Ebola epidemic in
Central Africa and to urge the Senate
to take up and pass S. 1340, my bipar-
tisan bill authorizing USAID to combat
the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. This legislation
passed the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in June, and it is time for
the full Senate to act.
On July 17, the World Health Organi-
zation declared this Ebola outbreak a
‘‘public health emergency of inter-
national concern,’’ with experts pre-
dicting the outbreak will last well into
2020.
The Democratic Republic of the
Congo, or the DRC, as it is known, has
been battling an Ebola outbreak for ex-
actly 1 year as of today. Despite the
best efforts of the Congolese, the World
Health Organization, and international
partners, this outbreak is now the sec-
ond worst in history. More than 1,800
people are dead and more than 2,600
confirmed and probable cases have
been identified.
It took just over 7 months to reach
1,000 cases of Ebola, but only 2 months
to reach 2,000. According to the World
Health Organization, up to 25 percent
of all infections may be going unre-
ported.
The scope of the outbreak continues
to grow. Just today, press reports indi-
cate that there is a third case in the
city of Goma, home to over 1 million
people.
Imagine the consequences of an unre-
strained outbreak in a city of over 1
million people. Under the best of cir-
cumstances, it would be difficult, but
not impossible, to control the out-
break. However, we are not dealing
with ideal circumstances. Today’s
Ebola outbreak is unfolding amid a
noxious mix of political mistrust and
overall insecurity.
Consider that eastern Congo has been
plagued for years by armed opposition
groups and militias. Dozens of armed
groups opposed to the government op-
erate in the areas most affected by
Ebola, periodically preventing health
officials from reaching communities in
need of treatment and prevention.
Likewise, criminal gangs operating
with near impunity have made it dan-
gerous for healthcare workers to travel
to Ebola-affected villages without se-
curity.
To complicate things further, we
have witnessed community resistance
specifically to the Ebola response.
Long marginalized by the capital of the
DRC, Kinshasa, communities in east-
ern Congo remain skeptical that the
crisis is real. They fear the government
is using the disease as another tool of
disenfranchising them, especially after
the former government canceled elec-
tions. Some actors even oppose medical
interventions and promote
disinformation and conspiracy theories
questioning the existence of the Ebola
outbreak.
To date, there have been more than
100 attacks on health facilities, se-
verely hampering the response of the
DRC and the international community.
Misinformation, mistrust of the gov-
ernment, and fear of violence at health
centers has resulted in between 25 and
50 percent of new Ebola deaths taking
place outside treatment facilities. This
means infectious patients are less like-
ly to receive lifesaving treatment and
more likely to infect others.
We no longer have the luxury of half-
hearted international engagement. We
need a multifaceted, multisectoral,
international response to get this
under control. We know all too well
that infectious diseases have no bor-
ders. It is one airplane flight away
from coming to our own country. That
has happened in the past.
It is in our national and inter-
national interest to ensure the United
States uses every resource available to
get this outbreak under control. To
date, however, the White House re-
sponse has not only been inadequate
but downright counterproductive.
In early May, USAID developed a new
strategy focusing on basic assistance
for disenfranchised communities to
help build trust and improve access for
healthcare workers. This strategy
would, for example, support health
interventions for anyone who comes to
a healthcare center in need of care,
even if not totally related to Ebola.
USAID also proposed new programs
to increase education, provide clean
water and sanitation in communities,
and improve conditions in Ebola-af-
fected communities. These programs
were designed to build trust and pro-
mote resilience in at-risk communities
so that health workers can better stop
the spread of the disease.
These were good ideas. Instead of em-
bracing them, the administration has
effectively tied its own hands in pro-
moting a sensible, sustainable response
to the Ebola crisis.
As we all know, the Trafficking Vic-
tims Protection Act, which I have been
a champion of on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having worked
with the former chairman, Bob Corker,
who felt passionately about these
issues, railed against the administra-
tion when they didn’t put countries in
tier 3, the most significant con-
sequence under our law, because they
were playing politics with that country
for other reasons and not observing the
essence of the law, and made sure that
the TIP Report was transparent and
honest in its assessments. So I am sup-
portive of the harsh sanctions for coun-
tries that fail to adequately combat
human trafficking.
As a tier 3 country under the law, the
DRC is therefore severely restricted
from receiving U.S. aid. But let’s use
some common sense here. This legisla-
tion was never, never intended to hurt
the most vulnerable in society or to be
used as an excuse to ignore a deadly
epidemic with international implica-
tions. In fact, Congress foresaw the
need for exceptions to these sanctions
in extraordinary cases in 22 USC, chap-
ter 78, section 4 of the Trafficking Vic-
tims Protection Act. This language
that I just cited allows the United
States to waive sanctions and provide
assistance when it is in our national
interest to do so. Indeed, the law spe-
cifically says: ‘‘The President shall ex-
ercise the authority’’—shall exercise
the authority—‘‘under section (4) when
necessary to avoid significant adverse
effects on vulnerable populations, in-
cluding women and children.’’
According to the World Health Orga-
nization, the Ebola virus disease has a
50-percent mortality rate. No one can
deny its effects on vulnerable popu-
lations. If the people of eastern Congo,
including women and children, are not
vulnerable, then I don’t know who is.
Yet the White House has refused to
exercise the waiver. That is why we
need the Ebola Eradication Act. This
simple legislation directs the USAID
Administrator to immediately provide
assistance, including multisectoral,
nonhumanitarian, and nontrade related
foreign assistance, to the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and other vul-
nerable countries to effectively combat
the Ebola outbreak, notwithstanding
the sanctions required by the Traf-
ficking and Victims Protection Act.
Make no mistake, President Trump
could have done this himself months
ago. But as a Bloomberg editorial pub-
lished today points out, President
Trump has failed to respond with ur-
gency. As a result, needless delays and
inaction have hampered our response.
In mid-June, the administration had
granted exceptions for all Ebola-re-
lated activities proposed under
USAID’s new plan, but they have yet to
be launched. To make matters worse,
those exceptions were granted only for
fiscal year 2018 money.
Finally, the exception is not a coun-
try waiver, creating loads of redtape
for future activities related to com-
bating Ebola. In other words, we are
shooting ourselves in the foot with un-
necessary bureaucratic hurdles that
serve no purpose and slow down our re-
sponse even as the disease continues to
kill more and more people.
Fortunately, the DRC and bordering
countries, together with the World
Health Organization, have lessened the
overall impact by successfully vacci-
nating more than 120,000 people. They
have also administered experimental
treatment regimens to over 300 people,
which, if caught in time, can save more
lives. But this is a case where, in fact,
America can and must do more.
While there is no magic wand we can
wave to change the security situation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.028 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5295
August 1, 2019
we can certainly step up the U.S. re-
sponse and our support for local and
international efforts. We have a moral
obligation to help contain and combat
this outbreak before it becomes an epi-
demic. Likewise, we have an obligation
to protect the safety and security of
the American public. Our goal must be
to save lives and prevent the spread of
Ebola before it stands a chance of
reaching America’s shores. Ultimately,
we ignore the tragedy unfolding in the
Congo at our own peril. It is time for
this body to act.
USAID Administrator Mark Green
testified in front of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee earlier this year
and expressed strong support for this
legislation as it is currently written.
I urge my colleagues to work with
me in passing S. 1340, the Ebola Eradi-
cation Act of 2019, as it is currently
drafted and as the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee passed it in June.
This is an opportunity to ultimately
save lives. It is an opportunity—some-
thing we don’t always get in this
Chamber—for us to actually save lives.
It is an opportunity to stop an epi-
demic. It is an opportunity to preserve
our own interests by making sure
Ebola doesn’t come to the shores of the
United States. It should be a no-
brainer.
I hope we can work through the one
objection I understand that exists with
our colleague from Utah so that we can
actually control the epidemic, save
lives, and ultimately ensure our own
interests.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREE-
MENT—EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
vious order of July 31 with respect to
district judges be modified to allow for
confirmation votes notwithstanding
rule XXII.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 421.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ment related to the nomination be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nomination of
the following named officer for ap-
pointment as Chief of Naval Operations
and appointment in the United States
Navy to the grade indicated while as-
signed to a position of importance and
responsibility under title 10, U.S.C.,
sections 601 and 8033 to be Admiral:
Vice Adm. Michael M. Gilday?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 57 and 58.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of M. Miller Baker, of Lou-
isiana, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of International Trade;
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of International Trade.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations en bloc with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table en bloc;
that the President be immediately no-
tified of the Senate’s action; that no
further motions be in order; and that
any statements relating to the nomina-
tions be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Baker and Reif
nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 296 and 297.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Randolph J. Stayin, of Vir-
ginia, to be a Member of the United
States International Trade Commis-
sion for a term expiring June 16, 2026;
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a
Member of the United States Inter-
national Trade Commission for a term
expiring June 16, 2023.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Stayin and
Karpel nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations:
PN892, PN492, PN154, PN159, PN160,
PN161, PN163, PN164, PN165, and PN167.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nominations of
Matthew Keenan, of Kansas, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Legal Services Corporation for a
term expiring July 13, 2020; Julie
Reiskin, of Colorado, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal
Services Corporation for a term expir-
ing July 13, 2019 (Reappointment); Rob-
ert J. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Legal Services Corporation for a
term expiring July 13, 2020 (Reappoint-
ment); Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Legal Services Corporation for a
term expiring July 13, 2019; Abigail L.
Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal
Services Corporation for a term expir-
ing July 13, 2022 (Reappointment); John
G. Levi, of Illinois, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal
Services Corporation for a term expir-
ing July 13, 2020 (Reappointment); John
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:45 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.026 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5296 August 1, 2019
G. Malcolm, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2020;
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Legal Services Corporation for a
term expiring July 13, 2019; Frank X.
Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the
Legal Services Corporation for a term
expiring July 13, 2022 (Reappointment);
and Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New
Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Legal Services Cor-
poration for a term expiring July 13,
2020 (Reappointment)?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 241, 242, and 338.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Ron A. Bloom, of New York,
to be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service for a term expiring De-
cember 8, 2020; Roman Martinez IV, of
Florida, to be a Governor of the United
States Postal Service for a term expir-
ing December 8, 2024; and John McLeod
Barger, of California, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for
a term expiring December 8, 2021.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Bloom, Mar-
tinez, and Barger nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 391 and 392.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Ann C. Fisher, of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, to be a Commis-
sioner of the Postal Regulatory Com-
mission for a term expiring October 14,
2024, and Ashley Jay Elizabeth Poling,
of North Carolina, to be a Commis-
sioner of the Postal Regulatory Com-
mission for a term expiring November
22, 2024, en bloc.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Fisher and Pol-
ing nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 80, 413, and 414.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Mark Schultz, of Nebraska,
to be Commissioner of the Rehabilita-
tion Services Administration, Depart-
ment of Education; Sharon Fast Gus-
tafson, of Virginia, to be General Coun-
sel of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission for a term of four
years; and Charlotte A. Burrows, of the
District of Columbia, to be a Member
of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission for a term expiring July 1,
2023.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Schultz, Gus-
tafson, and Burrows nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 68, 70, 71, 72, 75,
79, PN10, PN7, PN8, P9, PN11, PN13,
PN14, PN16 PN15, PN12, and PN172.
There being no objection the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nominations of
Kathe Hicks Albrecht, of California, to
be a Member of the National Council
on the Humanities for a term expiring
January 26, 2024; Keegan F. Callanan,
of Vermont, to be a Member of the Na-
tional Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2024; David
Armand DeKeyser, of Alabama, to be a
Member of the National Council on the
Humanities for a term expiring Janu-
ary 26, 2020; Kim R. Holmes, of Vir-
ginia, to be a Member of the National
Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022; Phyllis
Kaminsky, of Arizona, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Human-
ities for a term expiring January 26,
2020; and Jean M. Yarbrough, of Maine,
to be a Member of the National Council
on the Humanities for a term expiring
January 26, 2022; Marjorie Fisher
Furman, of Michigan, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Human-
ities for a term expiring January 26,
2022; Russell A. Berman, of California,
to be a Member of the National Council
on the Humanities for a term expiring
January 26, 2020; William English, of
the District of Columbia, to be a Mem-
ber of the National Council on the Hu-
manities for a term expiring January
26, 2024; John Fonte, of Virginia, to be
a Member of the National Council on
the Humanities for a term expiring
January 26, 2020; Claire Griffin, of
Washington, to be a Member of the Na-
tional Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2022; Adair
Margo, of Texas, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Humanities for
a term expiring January 26, 2022; Mat-
thew Rose, of Iowa, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Human-
ities for a term expiring January 26,
2024; Noel Valis, of Connecticut, to be a
Member of the National Council on the
Humanities for a term expiring Janu-
ary 26, 2020; William Schneider, Jr., of
Colorado, to be a Member of the Na-
tional Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2020; Joyce
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.032 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5297
August 1, 2019
Malcolm, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Human-
ities for a term expiring January 26,
2020; and Mary Anne Carter, of Ten-
nessee, to be Chairperson of the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts for a
term of four years?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 366.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Wilmer Ocasio, of Puerto
Rico, to be United States Marshal for
the District of Puerto Rico for the
term of four years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments related to the nomination be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Ocasio nomina-
tion?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nomination: Ex-
ecutive Calendar No. 114.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Thomas McCaffery, of Cali-
fornia, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Defense.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statements relating to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the McCaffery nom-
ination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the Senate pro-
ceed to the consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination: Executive Calendar
No. 245.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Michael Eric Wooten, of Vir-
ginia, to be Administrator for Federal
Procurement Policy.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statements relating to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Wooten nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged and the
Senate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations:
PN21, PN563, and PN963.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nominations of
Jennifer L. Homendy, of Virginia, to be
a Member of the National Transpor-
tation Safety Board for a term expiring
December 31, 2024 (Reappointment); Mi-
chael J. K. Kratsios, of South Carolina,
to be an Associate Director of the Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy;
and Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South
Carolina, to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board for
a term of three years (Reappointment)
en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 373.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Mark Lee Greenblatt, of
Maryland, to be Inspector General, De-
partment of the Interior.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statements relating to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Greenblatt
nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 243, 244, 388, and
389.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of James A. Crowell IV, of the
District of Columbia, to be an Asso-
ciate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term
of fifteen years; Jason Park, of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia for the term of fif-
teen years; Rainey R. Brandt, of the
District of Columbia, to be an Asso-
ciate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term
of fifteen years; and Shana Frost
Matini, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.033 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5298 August 1, 2019
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Crowell, Park,
Brandt, and Matini nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 293, 158, and 7.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Emin Toro, of Virginia, to
be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court for a term of fifteen years;
Courtney Dunbar Jones, of Virginia, to
be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court for a term of fifteen years; and
Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to
be an Assistant Secretary of the Treas-
ury.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Toro, Dunbar
Jones, and Faulkender nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 115.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Lisa M. Schenck, of Virginia,
to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Military Commission Review.
(New Position)
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motion be in order; and
that any statements relating to the
nomination be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Schenck nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 178, 181, 395, 397,
400, 401, 404, 405, 406, and 361.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Kenneth S. George, of Texas,
to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Oriental Republic of
Uruguay; W. Patrick Murphy, of
Vermont, a Career Member of the Sen-
ior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the King-
dom of Cambodia; Richard K. Bell, of
Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Coun-
selor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the Republic of
Cote d’Ivoire; Jonathan R. Cohen, of
California, a Career Member of the
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Min-
ister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Arab
Republic of Egypt; Christopher Lan-
dau, of Maryland, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the
United Mexican States; Richard B.
Norland, of Iowa, a Career Member of
the Senior Foreign Service, Class of
Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Libya;
Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of
Columbia, a Career Member of the Sen-
ior Foreign Service, Class of Career
Ambassador, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Repub-
lic of Colombia; Jessica E. Lapenn, of
New York, a Career Member of the Sen-
ior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Afri-
can Union, with the rank and status of
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary; Mary Beth Leonard, of
Massachusetts, a Career Member of the
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Min-
ister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Fed-
eral Republic of Nigeria; and Eliot
Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-
American Development Bank for a
term of three years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon table; that the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action; that no further
motions be in order; and that any
statements relating to the nominations
be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the George, Mur-
phy, Bell, Cohen, Landau, Norland,
Goldberg, Lapenn, Leonard, and
Pedrosa nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 403.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kelly Craft, of
Kentucky, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Ses-
sions of the General Assembly of the
United Nations during her tenure of
service as Representative of the United
States of America to the United Na-
tions.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
Representative of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Sessions of the General Assembly
of the United Nations during her tenure of
service as Representative of the United
States of America to the United Nations.
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, Mike
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.034 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5299
August 1, 2019
Rounds, John Boozman, Thom Tillis,
Richard Burr, James E. Risch, David
Perdue, Roy Blunt, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, Tom Cotton, John
Barrasso, Steve Daines, John Thune.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 5.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Elizabeth Dar-
ling, of Texas, to be Commissioner on
Children, Youth, and Families, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be
Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Fami-
lies, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 174.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephen Akard,
of Indiana, to be Director of the Office
of Foreign Missions, with the rank of
Ambassador.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be
Director of the Office of Foreign Missions,
with the rank of Ambassador.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mike Rounds, John
Boozman, Thom Tillis, Richard Burr,
James E. Risch, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, Kevin Cramer, Roger F. Wicker,
Tom Cotton, John Barrasso, Steve
Daines, John Thune, John Hoeven.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 246.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Dale Cabaniss,
of Virginia, to be Director of the Office
of Personnel Management for a term of
four years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment for a term of four years.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, Roy
Blunt, John Boozman, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, Richard Burr, Lindsey
Graham, John Kennedy, Mike Crapo,
Mike Rounds, David Perdue, Roger F.
Wicker, Thom Tillis, Ron Johnson,
Rick Scott.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 294.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of James Byrne,
of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of
Veterans Affairs.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, John
Boozman, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Richard Burr, Lindsey Graham, John
Kennedy, Mike Crapo, David Perdue,
Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Roger F.
Wicker, Todd Young, Thom Tillis, Ron
Johnson, Rick Scott.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 333.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Michelle Bow-
man, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System for a term of fourteen
years from February 1, 2020. (Re-
appointment)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.036 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5300 August 1, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be
a Member of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System for a term of four-
teen years from February 1, 2020. (Reappoint-
ment)
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, Mike
Rounds, John Boozman, Thom Tillis,
Richard Burr, James E. Risch, Jerry
Moran, David Perdue, Roy Blunt, Kevin
Cramer, Roger F. Wicker, Tom Cotton,
John Barrasso, Steve Daines.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 335.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Thomas Peter
Feddo, of Virginia, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury for Investment
Security. (New Position)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia,
to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for
Investment Security. (New Position)
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, Richard Burr, Lindsey
Graham, John Kennedy, David Perdue,
Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Roger F.
Wicker, Todd Young, Thom Tillis, Ron
Johnson, Rick Scott.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 407.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jennifer D.
Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and
Development for a term of two years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Virginia,
to be United States Executive Director of
the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development for a term of two years.
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, Mike
Rounds, John Boozman, Thom Tillis,
Richard Burr, James E. Risch, David
Perdue, Roy Blunt, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, Tom Cotton, John
Barrasso, Steve Daines, John Thune.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination: Executive Calendar
No. 337.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of William B. Kilbride, of Ten-
nessee, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority for a term expiring May 18,
2023.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statements relating to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Kilbride nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO JANE TSCHETTER
LUCAS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize Jane Tschetter
Lucas. This month, she is leaving gov-
ernment service after serving her home
State of South Dakota as a member of
my staff for 10 years and, most re-
cently, serving in the executive branch
for the last 2 years.
In 2007, Jane graduated from South
Dakota State University, SDSU, in her
hometown of Brookings. where she was
a Briggs Scholar and a student athlete.
After graduating from SDSU, Jane
moved from South Dakota to Wash-
ington, DC, to take a position as a staff
assistant in my office.
In the 12 years since then, a lot has
happened for her both personally and
professionally. She quickly moved on
from the front office and went on to
serve on my legislative team in several
capacities, including as a legislative
assistant, health policy counsel, and fi-
nally as legislative director.
Jane was a fierce advocate for rural
healthcare and education priorities,
and I know many South Dakotans ben-
efited from her tireless work on these
issues.
While working full time in my office,
through healthcare debates and edu-
cation reform, and all that came with
them, Jane earned her law degree from
Georgetown University. In 2017, Jane
and her husband Chris welcomed a fu-
ture SDSU Jackrabbit, their daughter,
Grace. During that time, she
transitioned to a senior role at the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices. Shortly after, she accepted a role
in the White House Counsel’s office.
For the last 13 months, she has served
the administration as a special assist-
ant to the President in the White
House Office of Legislative Affairs.
Since her days as an intern in the
South Dakota State Legislature, Jane
has demonstrated an affinity for public
service and a knack for developing
solid public policy. She is a natural
leader, a patient mentor, and thought-
ful and thorough in her work. I would
like to thank her for her decade of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AU6.046 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5301
August 1, 2019
service to my office and the State of
South Dakota and for her service to
the American people.
I wish her continued success in her
new endeavors,
f
DREAM CENTER
Mr. DURBIN.
‘‘We’ve got a friend in Trump;
He’s lifting us out of our slump;
We were down—and life was rough;
Too many regs, were way too tough;
After so many years;
We’d just had enough, but;
Now, we’ve got a friend in Trump.’’
Mr. President, that was a song, sung
to the tune of Randy Newman’s
‘‘You’ve Got a Friend in Me,’’ written
by a former lawyer for Dream Center
Education Holdings about the pros-
pects for their for-profit college enter-
prise under a Trump administration.
Earlier this month, House Education
and Labor Committee Chairman Bobby
Scott sent a letter to Education Sec-
retary Betsy DeVos which revealed
damning new details about just how far
Dream Center’s ‘‘friends’’ at the
Trump/DeVos Department of Education
would go to assist as they collapsed.
Details, including that catchy little
ditty, were later reported by the New
York Times in an article entitled,
‘‘Emails Show DeVos Aides Pulled
Strings for Failing For-Profit Col-
leges.’’
I ask unanimous consent that the
New York Times article be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the New York Times, July 23, 2019]
EMAILS SHOW DEVOS AIDES PULLED STRINGS
FOR FAILING FOR-PROFIT COLLEGES
(By Erica L. Green and Stacy Cowley)
WASHINGTON.—Dream Center Education
Holdings, a subsidiary of a Los Angeles-based
megachurch, had no experience in higher
education when it petitioned the federal
Education Department to let it take over a
troubled chain of for-profit trade schools.
But the organization’s chairman, Randall
K. Barton, told the education secretary,
Betsy DeVos, that the foundation wanted to
‘‘help people live better lives.’’
The purchase was blessed despite Dream
Center’s lack of experience and questionable
finances by an administration favorable to
for-profit education. But barely a year later,
the company tumbled into insolvency, doz-
ens of its colleges closed abruptly and thou-
sands of students were left with no degree
after paying tens of thousands of dollars in
tuition.
Making matters worse, the college is ac-
cused of enrolling new students and taking
their taxpayer-supported financial aid dol-
lars even after some of its campuses had lost
their accreditation, which rendered their
credits worthless.
Company emails, documents and record-
ings show that part of why Dream Center
kept going is that it thought the Education
Department, which under Ms. DeVos has
rolled back regulations on for-profit edu-
cation, would try to keep it from failing. Mr.
Barton emailed other Dream Center execu-
tives that the department’s head of higher
education policy—Diane Auer Jones, a
former executive and lobbyist for for-profit
colleges—had pulled strings to help the com-
pany’s schools in their effort to regain a seal
of approval from an accreditor, despite their
perilous positions.
In another instance, Dream Center’s chief
operating officer told faculty at an endan-
gered campus that Ms. Jones was changing
departmental regulations to help the schools
obtain accreditation retroactively.
Although the Trump administration did
eventually cut off federal aid to the chain of
colleges and precipitate their collapse,
Democrats say the department failed to re-
spond to warning signs.
Representative Robert C. Scott, a Virginia
Democrat who is the chairman of the House
Education Committee, unveiled a trove of
documents, including internal communica-
tion between executives from Dream Center,
in a letter to Ms. DeVos this month. He said
the documents suggest that Ms. Jones misled
Congress about her efforts to help shield
Dream Center from its misdeeds.
‘‘The actions of Dream Center and the De-
partment of Education’s execution of its re-
sponsibility to protect students raise grave
concerns,’’ Mr. Scott wrote.
Instead of requiring Dream Center to take
action, ‘‘the department informed Dream
Center executives that it would work to
retroactively accredit the institutions dur-
ing the periods they had lied to students—re-
writing history to erase Dream Center’s de-
ceptive marketing practices,’’ Mr. Scott
wrote.
The Education Department has maintained
it did nothing wrong.
‘‘This story is based entirely on a wrongful
premise,’’ the department wrote in a state-
ment. ‘‘The full and complete timeline shows
Dream Center did not receive any unique
benefits from policy decisions made by the
department. We simply worked to try and
get as many students into a new program as
possible. While we did not achieve a perfect
outcome, our actions helped thousands of
students land on their feet.’’
In a response letter to Mr. Scott on Mon-
day, the department’s acting general coun-
sel, Reed D. Rubinstein, submitted docu-
mentation that he said contradicted the
committee’s ‘‘unfair suggestions’’ that the
department tailored its policies to assist
Dream Center and was not forthcoming with
Congress. ‘‘The Department categorically re-
jects these allegations,’’ he wrote.
‘‘Dream Center’s management received no
special treatment,’’ he said.
President Trump has moved to deregulate
any number of industries, from mining and
offshore oil exploration to chemicals and
Internet providers. But Ms. DeVos’s efforts
to get the government off the backs of for-
profit colleges have come under particular
scrutiny, in part because of the spectacular
implosions of for-profit college chains only a
few years ago, in part because people who
once worked in the sector have led the
DeVos deregulatory push.
Dream Center’s collapse was the first of
the new deregulatory era. Yet Education De-
partment officials insisted, repeatedly, that
its demise had nothing to do with the admin-
istration’s policies or efforts. Ms. Jones told
Congress that she did not even know of
Dream Center’s accreditation problems at
the time the company said she was working
to get it out of its jam. She also told law-
makers the policy change extending retro-
active accreditation had ‘‘nothing to do with
the Dream Center.’’
Those assurances are now being ques-
tioned.
‘‘The documents further suggest that de-
partment officials were not forthcoming to
Congress and the public about the informa-
tion they had about Dream Center’s status
and practices,’’ Mr. Scott wrote. He is re-
questing emails, text messages and inter-
views with several department officials, in-
cluding Ms. Jones.
The letter and documents ‘‘raise questions
about whether the department took steps to
allow Dream Center to mislead students,’’
Mr. Scott said.
From the start, the Education Department
overlooked red flags when, in late 2017,
Dream Center took control of more than 100
campuses with 50,000 students from a for-
profit higher-education company, Education
Management Corporation. Around that time,
Dream Center’s accreditor, the Higher
Learning Commission, notified the organiza-
tion that it was about to change two of its
schools’ accreditation status. Two Education
Department officials, including the agency’s
director of accreditation, were copied on the
letter.
In January 2018 the accreditor published a
notification on its website stating that the
two Dream Center schools were not accred-
ited by the Higher Learning Commission. It
ordered Dream Center to tell students that
their courses and degrees ‘‘may not be ac-
cepted in transfer to other colleges and uni-
versities or recognized by prospective em-
ployers.’’
Yet for five months, Dream Center kept
advertising, ‘‘We remain accredited.’’
By July 2018, Dream Center was running
out of cash and knew its accreditation prob-
lems could worsen its financial strain.
Emails from that month obtained by the
House Education Committee indicate that
Dream Center officials believed that the
Education Department was maneuvering to
help it stave off catastrophe.
In written responses to questions from
Congress, the Education Department said
Ms. Jones was first made aware that the two
Dream Center institutions were not accred-
ited on July 10, 2018. She was unaware of the
public notice that the Higher Learning Com-
mission had issued nearly six months earlier,
according to the agency. She was notified a
week later that the institutions were mis-
representing their accreditation status and
ordered them the next day to stop, the de-
partment said.
Ms. Jones was asked during a House Over-
sight Committee hearing this spring whether
a policy she had issued later that month that
allowed accreditations to be granted retro-
actively was aimed at helping Dream Center.
‘‘Absolutely not. It had nothing to do with
the Dream Center,’’ she answered.
But in company emails, Dream Center ex-
ecutives indicated the Education Depart-
ment tipped them off on July 3, 2018, that a
new retroactive accreditation policy was
coming, a week before Ms. Jones said she
even knew Dream Center had a problem.
‘‘We just got off the phone with DOE,’’ Mr.
Barton wrote. ‘‘It appears HLC is in sync
with retro’’ accreditation.
He said Ms. Jones—whom he directly cited
by name—had worked with accreditors, and
‘‘they will all agree to one plan with depart-
ment blessing.’’
Mr. Barton did not respond to requests for
comment on his emails.
On July 11, Dream Center’s chief operating
officer told faculty in a meeting on an Illi-
nois campus that the department would
allow the schools’ accreditor to grant retro-
active accreditation. He said department of-
ficials ‘‘changed their regulation to open the
door to letting it happen,’’ according to a re-
cording of the meeting obtained by the com-
mittee. He referred to a conversation with
Ms. Jones the week prior where ‘‘she said ev-
erybody was going to be accommodating.’’
Weeks later, on July 25, Ms. Jones finalized
the plan allowing retroactive accreditation,
which was a major win for Dream Center.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:45 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.036 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5302 August 1, 2019
While the schools were already slated for
closure, retroactive accreditation would
have shielded the company from legal action
for making misleading statements about its
accreditation status.
Ms. Jones said she had begun to revise that
guidance months earlier to allay long-
standing concerns about the department’s
policy stemming from a dispute involving an
accreditor of a nursing program. The retro-
active policy would have also allowed stu-
dents to more easily transfer their credits if
they were earned at an accredited institu-
tion.
In response to Mr. Scott’s accusations, Ms.
Jones said, in a written statement to The
New York Times, ‘‘The retroactive accredi-
tation policy—which had been under discus-
sion long before I arrived at the depart-
ment—decided not whether Dream Center
would live or die, but whether or not stu-
dents could transfer their credits for the
hard work they had completed.’’
In August, after it became public that the
two schools would close, Dream Center’s
head of regulatory and government affairs
wrote an email to other Dream Center offi-
cials reminding them that communication
should be kept confidential because ‘‘Diane
is really working behind the scenes to help
guide us and keep the accreditors aligned.’’
Ms. Jones did not directly address the July
3 and July 11 communication from Dream
Center officials, but acknowledged that she
had worked with accreditors. She called the
Dream Center accreditation issue a ‘‘messy
and complex situation’’ and said the
accreditor had sent mixed messages about
the status of Dream Center’s schools.
Ms. Jones had acknowledged to Congress
that she had concerns about the organiza-
tion’s capacity to manage its closures, and
was in regular communication with a group
of accreditors to devise a plan to allow
Dream Center students to complete their de-
grees, known as a ‘‘teach-out,’’ after their
campuses closed.
‘‘My goal was to get as many of the more
than 8,000 students to new institutions where
they could complete their programs,’’ she
said. ‘‘I stand firm in my decision to work
collaboratively with accreditors to hold
Dream Center accountable. That Dream Cen-
ter executives characterize this as being
about them is disingenuous but not sur-
prising. They were trying to make it appear
they had control of the mess they had
made.’’
A group of students, represented by the Na-
tional Student Legal Defense Network, filed
a lawsuit last year, saying Dream Center
issued ‘‘false and misleading’’ statements
about its accreditation status, which broke
state laws and caused ‘‘substantial harm’’ to
more than 1,000 students.
Mr. Scott also pointed to emails docu-
menting the steps the Education Department
took to help Dream Center get hold of some
much-needed cash to prop up its failing cam-
puses.
In an October 2018 email, Dream Center of-
ficials were preparing to request funding
from an escrow account managed by the de-
partment.
The funds were intended to offset taxpayer
liabilities if some of the chain’s schools
closed or failed. Dream Center wanted to use
part of the money to pay for expenses associ-
ated with closing campuses and helping cur-
rent students complete their degrees. The de-
partment had in August agreed to release up
to $50 million; Dream Center wanted more.
Dennis Cariello, a Dream Center lawyer,
sent an email to company executives before
a meeting with A. Wayne Johnson, who
headed the department’s office of financial
aid. At the meeting, Mr. Cariello planned to
deliver a ‘‘list of the asks’’ that amounted to
$75 million.
Mr. Cariello communicated that Mr. John-
son ‘‘asked that I review the draw requests—
there are a few we can’t have in there—bo-
nuses and future rental payments were
issues for him.’’
Mr. Cariello declined to comment on the
exchange. The department had released a
total of $40 million from the escrow account
to Dream Center by the end of last year, ac-
cording to records it sent in response to
questions from Congress.
Education Department officials have main-
tained that they worked tirelessly to miti-
gate the fallout of the Dream Center col-
lapse. The department restricted the schools’
cash flow from federal student loans after
Dream Center went into receivership in Jan-
uary, barely a month before it cut off federal
student loan funds to Argosy University.
That final move was considered the death
knell for the company.
But until then, Dream Center executives
had reason to believe they had friends at the
Education Department. In January 2018, just
as Dream Center’s schools lost their accredi-
tation, Ronald L. Holt, a regulatory lawyer
on the Dream Center team, sent a presen-
tation to Dream Center executives on the
state of higher education a year into the
Trump administration.
It Included a song he wrote titled, ‘‘You’ve
Got a Friend in Trump,’’ to the tune of
Randy Newman’s ‘‘You’ve Got a Friend in
Me,’’ used in the movie ‘‘Toy Story.’’
We’ve got a friend in Trump
He’s lifting us out of our slump
We were down—and life was rough
Too many regs, were way too tough
After so many years
We’d just had enough, but
Now, we’ve got a friend in Trump
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, back in
2017, Dream Center Education Hold-
ings, the spinoff of a Christian charity
with no previous experience in higher
education, announced its intention to
acquire the campuses of the failing for-
profit giant Education Management
Corporation, EDMC, and convert them
to nonprofit status.
Among EDMC’s most notable brands
were the Art Institutes and Argosy
University.
I joined several of my Senate col-
leagues at the time, raising concerns
about Dream Center’s ability to effec-
tively manage this higher education
enterprise in the best interests of stu-
dents and taxpayers.
Despite our concerns, Secretary
DeVos’s Department of Education gave
its preliminary approval to the trans-
action in October 2017, without condi-
tioning that approval on any restric-
tions or protections for students and
taxpayers.
The Department’s failure to protect
students and taxpayers at this critical
juncture set up a chain of events that
left thousands of students harmed and
millions in taxpayer dollars wasted.
In November 2017, as part of its own
approval of that transaction, the High-
er Learning Commission, HLC, re-
moved accreditation from Dream Cen-
ter’s newly acquired Art Institute of
Colorado and the Illinois Institute of
Art effective January 20, 2018.
HLC transitioned these schools to
‘‘candidates for accreditation,’’ during
which time they could still receive
Title IV funds.
HLC noted that the loss of accredita-
tion could have serious consequences
for current and prospective students
and that students ‘‘should know that
their courses or degrees are not accred-
ited by HLC and may not be accepted
in transfer to other colleges and uni-
versities or recognized by prospective
employers.’’
Because of these risks, HLC required
Dream Center to provide students with
‘‘proper advisement and accommoda-
tions.’’
But Dream Center failed to comply
with these requirements and instead
continued to falsely advertise to stu-
dents that these institutions ‘‘remain
accredited.’’
In June 2018, when several news arti-
cles brought the misrepresentation to
light, I wrote to the Higher Learning
Commission asking them to inves-
tigate.
I also sent a copy of that letter to
the Department of Education.
Then, in August 2018, an article by
David Halperin alleged that the top
DeVos postsecondary education offi-
cial, Diane Auer Jones, directed Dream
Center to continue to represent the Il-
linois and Colorado campuses as ac-
credited while she worked behind the
scenes to orchestrate retroactive ac-
creditation.
As Chairman SCOTT put it in his re-
cent letter, it was an attempt at ‘‘re-
writing history to erase Dream Cen-
ter’s deceptive marketing practices.’’
And, it required changing Depart-
ment regulations.
I wrote to Secretary DeVos in August
about these troubling accusations.
In a December 4, 2018, response,
signed by then-Assistant Secretary for
Legislation and Congressional Affairs
Peter Oppenheim, the Department de-
nied the allegations.
Instead, Mr. Oppenheim’s letter as-
serts that Ms. Jones didn’t learn about
the misrepresentation until July 17,
2018.
In response to subsequent written
questions, Secretary DeVos further
stated to me that Ms. Jones first
learned that HLC had withdrawn ac-
creditation from the Illinois and Colo-
rado campuses on July 10, 2018.
But, according to emails obtained
and released by Chairman SCOTT, Ms.
Jones appears to have been already
working to change Department regula-
tions to allow Dream Center to obtain
retroactive accreditation before these
dates.
A July 3, 2018, internal Dream Center
email reads, ‘‘We just got off the phone
with [the Department of Education]. It
appears HLC is in sync with retro-[ac-
creditation].’’
Diane Jones is specifically mentioned
in the email as being the Department
official working with accreditors to fa-
cilitate this.
As reported by the New York Times,
in a recorded meeting on July 11, 2018,
Dream Center’s chief operating officer
told faculty in Illinois that the Depart-
ment was working to change its regula-
tions to allow retroactive accredita-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:45 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.043 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5303
August 1, 2019
As evidence, he specifically referred
to a conversation the week before with
Ms. Jones.
These revelations raise the prospect
that Secretary DeVos, Ms. Jones, and
other Department officials may have
misled me and other members of Con-
gress in their responses to questions on
this matter.
Ultimately, the Dream Center deba-
cle led to thousands of students being
lured into a predatory enterprise on
the verge of collapse.
The question is, to what extent did
the DeVos Department of Education,
and Ms. Jones in particular, inappro-
priately aid and abet Dream Center’s
exploitation of students and bilking of
taxpayers as the company collapsed.
In February of this year, House
Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations
Subcommittee Chairwoman ROSA
DELAURO and I asked the Department’s
Office of Inspector General to inves-
tigate the Department’s role in the
Dream Center collapse.
Now, the revelations accompanying
Chairman SCOTT’s letter, raise serious
questions about the Department’s
truthfulness with Congress and a po-
tential attempt to cover up inappro-
priate involvement by Ms. Jones or
others.
In his letter, Chairman requested
transcribed interviews with several De-
partment officials, including Ms.
Jones, and a host of documents and
correspondence.
I call on Secretary DeVos to imme-
diately comply with these requests, to
direct her Department to fully cooper-
ate with Chairman SCOTT without
delay. Anything less and we will be
forced to ask what exactly Secretary
DeVos is trying to hide.
f
TRIBUTE TO MATTHEW BLADE
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would
like to take a moment to tell you
about a remarkable young man from
my hometown of Springfield, IL. His
name is Matthew Blade. In late May,
Matthew graduated from Lutheran
High School in Springfield as his class
valedictorian. He was also the presi-
dent of his senior class, president of his
school’s Spanish Honor Society and an
Illinois State scholar. He was involved
in theater and Madrigal singers and his
school’s praise band. He was a member
of Students Against Destructive Deci-
sions. Outside of school, Matthew vol-
unteers at a local food pantry, and he
is an Eagle Scout.
If Matthew Blade had done nothing
more, he would be exceptional. What
makes Matthew’s accomplishments
even more extraordinary is that Mat-
thew Blade spent half of his high
school years battling bone cancer.
He first felt the pain in his left arm
when he was 15 years old, a sophomore.
At first, he thought he might have
pulled a muscle playing soccer. When
the pain didn’t go away, Matthew went
in for x rays, then an MRI. The same
day he underwent the MRI, Matthew
and his parents, Doug and Tricia, re-
ceived the devastating diagnosis. The
pain in Matthew’s arm was not a
sprained muscles; it was most likely
osteocarcoma, a type of bone cancer.
What Matthew did next tells you a
lot about his character. He went to
school, didn’t tell anyone about his di-
agnosis, took a biology exam—and aced
the test.
But Matthew wasn’t able to keep his
diagnosis private for long. Over the
next 9 months he underwent 18 gruel-
ing chemotherapy treatments. Each
time, he had to be hospitalized for 4 or
5 days. His mom Tricia never left his
side. Matthew lost his hair and his eye-
lashes. When he was up to it, he went
to school, often pulling an I.V. bag on
a pole. When he was too sick for school,
he kept up with his lessons from home
or from his hospital bed.
What got him through those hard
times, he said, was his faith, prayers,
the love of his family, and ‘‘great doc-
tors and nurses’’ at St. John’s Hospital
in Springfield and Children’s Hospital
in St. Louis. His other saving grace, he
says, were his friends, who never treat-
ed him differently and helped him to
feel like a normal kid, even at his sick-
est.
Matthew undergoes scans every 6
months to monitor his health. His lat-
est scans, in June, showed ‘‘no detect-
able cancer.’’ These days, his hair has
grown back. He is playing soccer again.
He is working this summer as a coun-
selor at a church summer camp, work-
ing with little kids, ages 5 to 7.
But the cancer changed Matthew in
some ways. Early in his treatment, he
had to have a 6-1/2 inch section of his
left humerus bone—the long bone in his
upper arm—removed, so he can no
longer lift his left arm above his head.
After the surgery, Matthew had to
wear a sling, which made playing his
guitar impossible, but Matthew adapt-
ed. He learned how to play the ukulele.
Before his diagnosis, Matthew want-
ed to be a lawyer. Now, he wants to be
a pediatric oncologist, to help other
kids with cancer. He is looking forward
to starting college in the fall at St.
Louis University.
In his valedictory remarks, Matthew
told his classmates: ‘‘Life—like a hike
through the mountains—is full of
peaks and valleys. The more time you
spend in the valleys, the sweeter the
peaks will seem.’’ By his example, Mat-
thew Blade has taught his classmates—
and really, our whole town of Spring-
field—how to endure life’s valleys, and
how to cherish its peaks.
I want to wish Matthew all the best
on his accomplishment, and I know I
am not alone in saying that I can’t
wait to see what he does with the rest
of his remarkable life.
f
HONDURAS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, anyone
who follows the situation in Honduras,
as I and many Vermonters do, cannot
help but be disappointed and concerned
by what is happening there. I won’t
take the time to discuss in detail the
lengthy litany of circumstances that
have resulted in the deep social and po-
litical divisions, the rampant corrup-
tion, violence and insecurity, the prev-
alence of threats and assassinations by
gangs, the dysfunctional justice sys-
tem, and the sense of desperation and
hopelessness that so many Hondurans
are feeling, but I do want to mention
several that should concern every Sen-
ator.
To put the situation there in perspec-
tive, it is important to keep in mind
what is happening in our own country.
For purely political reasons, Presi-
dent Trump has directed his wrath and
contempt on the thousands of Central
American migrants seeking entry to
the United States, many of whom are
women and children and many of whom
are from Honduras. Regrettably, his
xenophobic attacks have encouraged
other extreme voices demonizing mi-
grants and asylum seekers. They have
apparently forgotten that America is
fundamentally a nation of immigrants.
There is no question that our govern-
ment is woefully unprepared to hu-
manely and expeditiously handle this
influx and that there is a humanitarian
crisis at our southern border. We are
each aware of the appalling treatment
to which many of these desperate mi-
grants have been subjected, both dur-
ing the harrowing journey from their
home countries to the U.S. border and
in our government’s custody—human
beings trafficked, robbed, and sexually
abused by unscrupulous smugglers; de-
fenseless, impoverished people
crammed into grossly overcrowded de-
tention facilities; frightened children
forcibly separated from their families
and sleeping on cement floors in wire
cages; a backlog of hundreds of thou-
sands of asylum applications; and if
that were not enough, racist and dis-
paraging Facebook posts by U.S. Bor-
der Patrol officers about the people in
their custody.
This, not the Statue of Liberty, is
what awaits the Hondurans who have
abandoned their impoverished, vio-
lence-ridden communities in search of
safety and a better life for themselves
and their children. Yet they continue
to come because remaining in Central
America is a worse option.
While the White House justifies its
mistreatment of Central American mi-
grants by falsely labeling them all as
criminals who have engaged in asylum
fraud, it has rightly asked Congress for
millions of dollars to help care for refu-
gees from Venezuela who are fleeing
economic collapse, violence, and polit-
ical chaos in that country. The similar-
ities of the factors that are motivating
the exodus of Hondurans and Ven-
ezuelans are far greater than their dif-
ferences, which illustrates the blatant
hypocrisy and unfairness of the admin-
istration’s incoherent policies.
Honduras has been in a state of con-
vulsion since the coup that ousted
President Manuel Zelaya in 2009 and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.039 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5304 August 1, 2019
the 2013 election that was plagued with
vote buying, violence, and fraud and
that ended with President Hernandez
declared the winner. The situation was
exacerbated by the 2017 election that
was widely regarded as flawed before it
even took place. After President Her-
nandez secured the support of the Na-
tional Assembly, the electoral commis-
sion, and the Supreme Court, each of
which was beholden to him, to change
the Constitution so he could run for a
second term, the election was marred
by reports of egregious vote counting
irregularities.
Given these circumstances, after
being sworn into office a second time,
President Hernandez would have been
wise to appoint a politically, eth-
nically, and geographically diverse
cabinet and to promote policies de-
signed to rebuild confidence and trust
with the opposition and civil society.
Instead, he and his government have
often embraced policies and practices
that have further deepened divisions in
an already polarized society.
Popular protests over election fraud,
corruption, land disputes, and seem-
ingly intractable poverty have been
met with the indiscriminate use of live
ammunition by the police and armed
forces resulting in multiple deaths, ar-
bitrary arrests, beatings, and pro-
longed detention without trial. Despite
repeated appeals by the international
community, including the United Na-
tions and the U.S. Embassy, to the
Honduran Government to respect the
rule of law and use restraint against
protesters, the situation has not im-
proved, and those responsible have not
been held accountable. The country is
afflicted by near daily confrontations,
and the number of people seeking ref-
uge outside the country continues
unabated.
Many of us also remember the em-
blematic case of Berta Caceres, a cou-
rageous indigenous environmental ac-
tivist who was repeatedly harassed and
threatened and ultimately assassinated
for opposing the illegal construction of
a hydroelectric plant. After the police
tried to cover up the crime, it was only
thanks to international outrage that
seven individuals, including an em-
ployee of the DESA hydroelectric com-
pany, a former security chief for the
company who was an ex-U.S.-trained
army lieutenant, another U.S.-trained
special forces major, and a former spe-
cial forces sergeant, were arrested and
convicted. Yet more than 3 years after
that horrific crime, none of them has
been sentenced. The prosecution of an
eighth individual, David Castillo, the
former DESA president who was also a
U.S.-trained former military intel-
ligence officer, has been stalled for
months. It is also widely believed that
there are other coconspirators who
have not been charged. Scores of simi-
lar assassinations of social activists
and independent journalists in the past
10 years have never even been inves-
tigated, much less resulted in prosecu-
tion or punishment. By its inaction,
the Honduran Government is sending
the unmistakable message that impu-
nity for these crimes is acceptable.
For many years, Vermont and Hon-
duras were ‘‘sister states.’’ I have trav-
eled there, as have many Vermonters,
including some who have served as vol-
unteers providing primary health care,
education, and other humanitarian
services to isolated rural communities.
So I have a longstanding interest in
Honduras and its people, and over the
years I have supported hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars in U.S. assistance for
Honduras.
Yet today Honduras faces every
imaginable problem. It is a trans-
shipment point for Colombian cocaine
and a haven for ruthless drug gangs.
Millions of Hondurans live in dan-
gerous, squalid conditions with no hope
for the future. The police have a his-
tory of corruption and are mistrusted.
Violent crimes are common and almost
never result in conviction. And the
government is plagued by corruption,
its officials often seeming to be more
concerned with staying in power and
enriching themselves than addressing
the needs of their people.
Why is this? There are obviously
many factors, but one is undoubtedly a
failure of leadership in Honduras and in
the United States. For too long, suc-
cessive U.S. administrations made ex-
cuses for and continued to support
Honduran Governments that were cor-
rupt, ineffective, unaccountable, and
whose commitment to fundamental
rights and democratic principles was
lacking. It was a waste of U.S. tax-
payer dollars and a disservice to the
Honduran people.
In a reversal, the White House has
suspended assistance for Honduras and
the other Northern Triangle countries
because President Trump says they
have not done enough to stop the exo-
dus of migrants. The President seems
to believe that the Honduran Govern-
ment should somehow prevent its citi-
zens from leaving, even though they
have a legal right to. At the same time,
there is no doubt that the Honduran
Government can and must do far more
to address the violence, poverty, cor-
ruption, and injustice that cause peo-
ple to seek refuge elsewhere. That in-
cludes firing corrupt officials, enacting
and implementing the plea bargaining
legislation that has been pending for
years, strengthening the Mission to
Support the Fight against Corruption
and Impunity instead of weakening it,
as the Honduran Government is trying,
and defending civil society activists
who are frequently harassed, threat-
ened, arbitrarily arrested, and even as-
sassinated.
The United States has not had an
Ambassador in Tegucigalpa for more
than 2 years. The message this sends to
the Honduran people is that it doesn’t
matter, that Honduras is not impor-
tant. That is wrong. We need an ambas-
sador who is a strong voice for good
governance, for human rights, for ac-
countability, and for defending the
independence of the judiciary and other
democratic institutions against fraud,
exploitation, or improper influence.
Those who were involved in con-
ceiving, carrying out, and attempting
to cover up the assassination of Berta
Caceres should be brought to justice
without further delay. The Honduran
people also need to see justice done in
the cases of excessive, deadly force
against protesters by Honduran mili-
tary police following the 2017 election.
There needs to be fair trials of the pro-
testers who were arrested and who
have languished in jail without due
process for a year and a half. Justice
delayed is justice denied YET, unfortu-
nately, that is the norm in Honduras.
Finally, it is the Honduran Govern-
ment’s urgent responsibility to take
whatever steps are necessary to reform
Honduras election laws and procedures.
The Honduran people need to have con-
fidence that the next election—only 21⁄2
years away—will be unlike the 2017
election, free and fair and will not re-
sult in more social upheaval, more ex-
cessive force by the police, more impu-
nity, and a further exodus of people
seeking safety and a better life.
f
CIVIL AFFAIRS
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to have printed in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD this schol-
arly article ‘‘Civil Affairs, Winston
Churchill, and the Power of Paying At-
tention,’’ originally published in Small
Wars Journal, which analyzes the value
of Civil Affairs to supported commands
and agencies through the lens of Win-
ston Churchill’s conception of general-
ship and statesmanship. Its author,
CPT Andrew J. Bibb, U.S. Army, is
from Santa Fe, NM.
Although often overlooked, our civil
affairs forces contribute to the ability
of policymakers and military com-
manders to understand the full land-
scape and make fully informed deci-
sions. Civil Affairs units also help us
navigate conflicts where we more fre-
quently confront civilians than com-
batants. As the article puts it, Civil Af-
fairs ‘‘helps the commander understand
the factors that contribute to civil un-
rest and make societies vulnerable to
nefarious actors [and] enables them to
make decisions that not only defeat
threats but prevent them from arising
in the first place.’’
I want to thank our men and women
in Civil Affairs and let them know we
value and appreciate their often
unheralded work.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
CIVIL AFFAIRS, WINSTON CHURCHILL, AND THE
POWER OF PAYING ATTENTION CAPTAIN AN-
DREW J. BIBB, U.S. ARMY
Readiness, the top priority of the U.S.
military in the 21st century, begins with
awareness. This applies from the individual
all the way up to the national and inter-
national levels, from the tactical level to the
operational and strategic. In this context,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.040 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5305
August 1, 2019
awareness is defined as the state of con-
sciousness in which one attains a functional
realization of the state and nature of reality.
It is achieved when one pays attention to a
given situation and the factors that con-
tribute to it, analyzing and examining until
he or she achieves an actionable level of un-
derstanding. When the observer understands
the problem well enough, the solutions
present themselves.
Clinical psychologist Dr. Jordan Peterson
explains, ‘‘If you identify things, with care-
ful attention and language, you bring them
forward as viable, obedient objects, detach-
ing them from their underlying near-uni-
versal interconnectedness. You simplify
them. You make them specific and useful,
and reduce their complexity.’’ This process
of enabling awareness and understanding in
support of readiness is what Army Civil Af-
fairs (CA) does best.
This paper aims to show the value of CA to
both the statesman and general as they are
understood by Winston Churchill in Dr.
Larry P. Arnn’s scholarly work Churchill’s
Trial: Winston Churchill and the Salvation
of Free Government. Although Churchill
uses the term ‘‘general’’ to refer to com-
manders, CA’s value is by no means limited
to flag officers. The CA team, the lowest-ech-
elon CA element, is a battalion-level asset
and can inform tactical decisions as well as
operational and strategic ones. Similarly,
CA support to statesmen is not limited to
elected officials, as fostering partnerships
within and supporting the various branches
of government fall directly within the pur-
view of Civil Affairs.
There are at least three good reasons to
use Winston Churchill’s concepts of states-
manship and generalship as the lens through
which to analyze the value of CA. First, the
purpose of all Civil Affairs Operations (CAO)
is to enable and execute the decisions of
commanders (generals) and policy makers
(statesmen). Second, of all of the world lead-
ers in the past hundred years few are as
qualified to speak authoritatively on both of
these topics as Winston Churchill. Third,
none of these world leaders were as prolific
as Churchill at recording their perspectives,
so through his work we are able to clearly
see what the general and statesmen need
that CA can provide.
Churchill served as Prime Minister of
Great Britain during and after World War II,
as well as in numerous other government po-
sitions, including First Lord of the Admi-
ralty at the outbreak of World War I.
Throughout his long and distinguished ca-
reer he learned that the duty of statesmen
and generals was to comprehend a given situ-
ation and act in concert with reality to
produce the desired outcome. The ability to
do this in large part depends on having an
accurate, complete, and nuanced under-
standing of the situation and its attending
circumstances.
Fortunately for both the statesman and
the general, this is where CA excels. CA not
only serves as the informational and rela-
tional link between military and civilian en-
tities, but also paints an accurate picture of
the on-the-ground reality for the com-
mander. CA focuses specifically on the civil
component of the operational environment
(OE), and since the non-threat (civil) aspect
makes up the vast majority of the OE a prop-
er understanding of that aspect is critical to
both military and political success. Addi-
tionally, ‘‘Military operations always have a
degree of involvement (assistance, inter-
ference, or influence) with the civil compo-
nent,’’ so a dedicated force oriented to that
component is necessary to every operation.
DEFINING THE PARTICULARS
Churchill believed that the ‘‘right thing to
do depends on the circumstances,’’ but those
circumstances must be defined in order to
determine what the right course of action is.
CA’s most critical function is to establish
and maintain awareness of both the raw civil
data and its aggregate significance. Civil Af-
fairs Activities (CAA), the core competency
of which CA is the proponent, are ‘‘enduring
capabilities that increase the commander’s
understanding of, deliberate interaction
with, and planning for the civil component.’’
While CA forces are capable of supporting
Military Governance Operations and other
joint activities, such as Foreign Assistance
and Populace and Resources Control, CAA
define CA as the commander’s asset. The five
CAA functions are Civil Reconnaissance,
Civil Engagement, Civil Information Man-
agement, Civil-Military Operations Center,
and Civil Affairs Operations Staff Support.
CAA make CA an invaluable asset to the
commander because an accurate picture of
the on-the-ground reality frees the com-
mander to make timely decisions con-
fidently. Without that picture every decision
is a gamble. In Churchill’s mind, the spe-
cifics surrounding each individual cir-
cumstance should drive military decisions.
For him, ‘‘Circumstances alone . . . decide
whether a correct conventional maneuver is
right or wrong.’’ That these circumstances
‘‘are many in number and constantly mov-
ing’’ only emphasizes the need for CA input
into the commander’s common operational
picture (COP).
Policy makers benefit from this civil infor-
mation as well, as it enables them to make
decisions in light of their real-world implica-
tions. Churchill believed that, although the
‘‘statesman lives and judges amidst the de-
tails of action,’’ he ‘‘serves a master beyond
all particulars.’’ For the policy maker to rise
above the particulars someone else must
gather, process, and disseminate the detailed
information that drives policy decisions.
Someone else must pay close attention to
the specifics of a given civil situation. CA
forces meet the civil information require-
ments of both the general and the statesmen
in this regard and are uniquely ‘‘trained in
understanding’’ the particulars of ‘‘foreign
cultures, socio-economic dynamics, and gov-
ernance structures.’’
Army CA has only two tactical mission
tasks in its doctrine, and both of them are
oriented toward defining the particulars of
the civil component. Civil Reconnaissance
(CR) and Civil Engagement (CE), which are
also the first two CAA functions, are dedi-
cated to gathering the raw civil data in a
given area of operations. These two ‘‘CA spe-
cific tasks answer key information gaps in
which no other staff section specializes.’’ CA
Forces are able to focus their attention on
the ‘‘dynamic relationship’’ between ‘‘friend-
ly forces, enemy forces, and populations as
. . . a host of other factors contend to influ-
ence the OE on a daily basis.’’
CR, the first tactical task, is the ‘‘tar-
geted, planned, and coordinated observation
and evaluation of specific civil aspects of the
environment.’’ CA forces are capable of con-
ducting CR in any environment the com-
mander deems necessary by ‘‘deploying to
semi- and non-permissive environments, and
operating in places where traditional mili-
tary and civilian agencies cannot.’’ For this
reason, among many others, Marine COL Jef-
frey Lipson concludes that tactical CA units
are ‘‘employed to their best effect’’ when
they are tasked ‘‘to gain an accurate picture
of a region in addition to what is gleaned
from traditional intelligence sources.’’
CR is proactive in nature, not reactive. It
continually refines the commander’s picture
of the OE instead of waiting for specific in-
formation requirements to be published, al-
though CA forces are perfectly capable of an-
swering those as well. CA forces base their
CR on civil information collection plans,
which are specific enough to economize CA
efforts but broad enough to allow for flexi-
bility depending on the circumstances. The
result is quality civil information gained at
a negligible cost. COL Lipson explains,
‘‘When properly gathered, analyzed, de-
ployed, civil reconnaissance will ‘push’ infor-
mation to commanders to help them tailor
their operations. Without it, the same infor-
mation is ‘pulled’ through interrogations,
patrols, or other more time-and resource-in-
tensive means and perhaps with less effi-
cacy.’’
Churchill believed that those ‘‘who cannot
talk to each other are likely to fight like
roosters.’’ CA has an answer to this problem
as well. Civil Engagement (CE), the second
tactical mission task, are ‘‘the planned and
targeted activities in which CA forces delib-
erately focus on the interaction with the IPI
[indigenous populations and institutions],
unified action partners, and other civil enti-
ties.’’
Churchill knew first-hand that fostering
relationships leads to a clearer under-
standing of the circumstances. While serving
as a war correspondent in South Africa dur-
ing the Boer War in the late 1890s, Boer
fighters captured Churchill as well as a num-
ber of British soldiers. Churchill, unwilling
to stand passively by, built relationships
with his captors, befriended them, and then
leveraged these relationships to gain valu-
able information that led to his daring and
successful escape.
Although he did not refer to it as such,
Churchill conducted CE to gain access to and
influence with his guards, and, as a result,
gather the necessary information for his
plan. Aside from the fact that his engage-
ments were with enemy combatants, it is no
different than what CA does every day with
non-threat entities. The CE function pro-
vides a host of capabilities to the supported
commander, who may employ ‘‘this task to
obtain or disseminate information, mitigate
civilian-military interference, foster legit-
imacy, gain civil cooperation, build partner
capacity, and obtain unified action.’’
CE is a tactical level task that can have
strategic effects. Dr. David Kilcullen and
Marine COL (Ret.) Curtis Lee observe, ‘‘Ci-
vilians are active participants in all con-
flicts, making engagement with civil govern-
ment, civil society organizations, and com-
munity leaders a critical combat function.’’
The commander has in CE the capability to
reach directly down to the level of boots-on-
the-ground and thereby influence key part-
ners to achieve his end-state, as well as fill
critical information gaps with data that can
only be acquired through face-to-face inter-
actions. As Dr. Peterson observes, ‘‘It’s
amazing what people will tell you if you pay
attention.’’ The commander finds in CA
forces a tool to employ ‘‘in the information
environment that can be used to create ef-
fects and operationally desirable condi-
tions.’’
A SINGLE UNITY OF CONCEPTION
Churchill was not only a soldier, states-
man, and writer. He was also a painter.
Painting was his favorite leisure activity
and he used the principles of painting to il-
lustrate the proper conduct of war as he saw
it. He saw many similarities between the
painter, the general, and the statesman, but
the most critical of these similarities was
the need for ‘‘a single unity of conception.’’
Churchill describes this single unity of
conception as an ‘‘all-embracing view which
presents the beginning and the end, the
whole and each part, as one instantaneous
impression retentively and untiringly held in
the mind.’’ In both painting and warfare the
‘‘details,’’ or, for CA, the data points gath-
ered through CR and CE, ‘‘are essential to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.054 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5306 August 1, 2019
the problem presented by each,’’ however
these ‘‘details have no order without’’ this
single unity of conception.
Perhaps CA as a branch is best seen, using
Churchill’s language, as a master painter
who accurately depicts the civil component
of the OE in the commander’s COP, reflect-
ing reality but also vividly emphasizing the
most relevant aspects in the foreground. The
CA professional is like the art, movie, or
food critic who is so familiar with his or her
craft that he or she grasps details that would
slip by the average consumer unnoticed as
the significant particulars they are. Properly
trained, CA forces are so intimately familiar
with the social and political nuances of a
given region that they recognize factors that
others would consider inconsequential. Their
‘‘cultural orientation, regional expertise,
linguistic capabilities, advisory ability, and
civilian-acquired professional skills’’ enable
them to discriminate between priority and
ancillary data points.
For CA forces, the COP is the canvas and
the pieces of civil information gathered
through CR and CE are the colors on the pal-
ette. Information management systems and
practices are the brushes that feed the infor-
mation into the overall COP. Civil Informa-
tion Management (CIM), the third CAA func-
tion, is the process by which the colors are
blended and arranged on the canvas to re-
flect reality. In this process ‘‘data relating
to the civil component of the operational en-
vironment is gathered, collated, processed,
analyzed, produced into information prod-
ucts, and disseminated.’’ CIM is how the par-
ticulars become actionable to the general
and the statesman.
The purpose of the COP is to enable the
commander to achieve a single unity of con-
ception. In a properly ‘‘painted’’ picture of
the civil component of the COP, every detail,
‘‘however distant, however subordinate, is
set forth naturally and in its true proportion
and relation.’’ This is vital because, ‘‘Like
the details, the conception of the work must
be true. For the painter, nature appears on
the canvas with ‘startling obedience,’ but
only when the painter studies it attentively
and faithfully.’’ The civil information gath-
ered during CR and CE must be accurate, but
their aggregation must not skew any aspect
or make it any more or less significant than
it is. Reality as communicated by the data,
not preconceived notions, must drive the
COP.
Preconceived notions, or assumptions that
have not been confirmed or denied, amount
to nothing more than theories. Churchill be-
lieved, ‘‘The painter’s art—and also that of
the general . . . and the statesman—does not
consist in admiration for or faith in theo-
ries.’’ Theories are valuable as a starting
point, but the role of CA includes verifying
or refuting these assumptions to produce
hard data that concurs with reality.
The CIM process and the resulting COP is
‘‘a service to the truth as it is to be observed
in nature.’’ The verified details that feed
into the COP are crucial, but the COP ‘‘is
more than and different from the details of
which it has been composed. The nature of
the thing seems to bring in qualitative fac-
tors, factors that are apparent only in the
details, but factors that are not the same as
the details.’’ The aggregate significance of
the COP, not just reliable bits of informa-
tion, is both built by the details and also be-
comes a separate entity. The resulting single
unity of conception drives military and pol-
icy decisions.
According to Churchill, both the general
and the statesman ‘‘must see things as they
relate to one another in magnitude, signifi-
cance, and causality. Seeing in this way is
not just seeing the details but seeing the
order in the details.’’ The civil component,
perhaps the most ambiguous and constantly
shifting of all aspects of the OE, is also the
one that requires the most persistent en-
gagement. Army CA doctrine recognizes,
‘‘The land domain is the most complex of the
domains, because it addresses humanity—its
cultures, ethnicities, religions, and politics.’’
The information gathering and production
process helps the ‘‘superior’’ commander
‘‘bring these shifting details into order and
comprehension,’’ thus emphasizing the
actionability of the data, and avoid the dan-
ger of becoming merely an ‘‘intelligent
scribe.’’
ACTIONABILITY AND COOPERATION
The CIM process produces actionable infor-
mation of a kind that Churchill referred to
as ‘‘practical knowledge,’’ the purpose of
which is ‘‘not knowing, but doing. The result
of prudential reasoning is a choice and the
result of a choice is an action.’’ Churchill
recognized that the ‘‘business of statesman-
ship,’’ as well as generalship, ‘‘was choos-
ing.’’ Due to the constant flux of cir-
cumstances, the statesman and general must
‘‘choose at the moment when choices are
possible, in the present when the future
‘though imminent is obscure.’ ’’
Statesmen and generals, policy makers and
commanders, bear the burden of making con-
sequential decisions. For this reason, the
purpose of CIM is not academic but action-
oriented. In the CIM process, ‘‘The data is
used as civil considerations input into pos-
sible courses of action to determine the im-
pact of military operations on the civil com-
ponent of the OE,’’ as well as to describe
‘‘how the civil population affects military
operations.’’
In Churchill’s experience, ‘‘War actually
calls forth the most intense forms of co-
operation.’’ War ‘‘is not only a cooperative
and political event: it is the supreme event
of that kind.’’ He discerned that the ‘‘maneu-
ver which brings an ally into the field is as
serviceable as that which wins a great bat-
tle.’’ CA not only provides the commander
with actionable information through the
COP, but also forges partnerships within and
without the U.S. military. CA forces engage
‘‘IPI and unified action partners to establish
and maintain relationships and communica-
tion channels in order to enhance and influ-
ence the relationship between military
forces and the civil component.’’ The nexus
of this coordination is the Civil-Military Op-
erations Center (CMOC).
The CMOC, the fourth CAA function, is the
workhorse of the CA branch. It is ‘‘a primary
capability for coordination of the activities
of the Armed Forces of the United States
with unified action partners, IPI, and inter-
agency.’’ When necessary, the CMOC can also
be augmented with relevant specialists, such
as engineers, military police, medical, and
transportation to provide the supported com-
mander with a one-stop-shop for subject-
matter experts.
Reflecting the proactive nature of CAA,
CMOCs may provide Civil Liaison Teams
(CLT) to key partners. The CLT guards
against miscommunication and allows for
constant coordination and near-instanta-
neous synchronization. It also ‘‘provides the
supported CMOC with a CR and CE capa-
bility for . . . coordination without inter-
fering with the regular staff functions.’’
These capabilities make CA ‘‘the Joint force
of choice to work with many civilian agency,
non-governmental, civil society, and private
sector actors whose capacities best mitigate
drivers of conflict and instability and pro-
mote peace.’’
ULTIMATE PRACTICAL ACCURACY
For Churchill, success ‘‘on the battlefield
cannot be ‘calculated on paper alone, and
never copied from examples of the past.’ The
solution must be ‘evolved from the eye and
brain and soul of a single man,’ ’’ with the
goal of ‘‘achieving an ‘ultimate practical ac-
curacy.’ ’’ This is especially true in the 21st
century and, as COL Lipson asserts, ‘‘There
has never been a more pressing need to un-
derstand the importance of the integration
of civil information into operational plan-
ning.’’ Fortunately, the commander need not
be alone in his pursuit of ‘‘ultimate practical
accuracy.’’
Civil Affairs Operations Staff Support, the
fifth and final function of CAA, provides the
commander with civil-military experts who
are ‘‘aware of cultural nuances, divergent
world views, biases, prejudices, and stereo-
types that affect both the civil component
and military operations.’’ CA staff, in con-
junction with and supported by the CMOC,
provides ‘‘support during the military deci-
sion-making process (MDMP) and the joint
planning process.’’ CA staff also ‘‘synchro-
nizes, integrates, and coordinates the civil
component with the commander’s CMO
[Civil-Military Operations] responsibilities
and operational plans.’’
Input from CA staff supports whom
Churchill would consider the ‘‘great’’ gen-
eral. In Churchill’s view, ‘‘Generals are sup-
posed to add something to war to bring it to
the right conclusion and to mitigate its ef-
fects. ‘Battles are won by slaughter and ma-
neuver. The greater the general, the more he
contributes in maneuver, the less he de-
mands in slaughter.’ ’’ He believed that the
greatest ‘‘contribution’’ of the general is to
achieve victory while suffering ‘‘few casual-
ties,’’ leaving ‘‘the enemy puzzled as well as
beaten.’’ Churchill’s generals were chal-
lenged to ‘‘find easier ways other than sheer
slaughter of achieving the main purpose.’’
CA staff, more so than traditional com-
mand staff positions, contribute to pre-
venting the loss of human life, property, and
social capital. Rather than simply solve
problems after they have been created, CA
staff helps the commander mitigate or defeat
sources of instability well before kinetic ac-
tion is called for. The fact is that ‘‘in today’s
dynamic world, it’s likely that a conflict can
arise before the presence of an enemy is even
fully understood.’’ These conflicts ‘‘can only
be won at the civil-military level,’’ where
‘‘coming to grips with the deep internal divi-
sions and tensions of the host country, and
the pressures from outside states, are crit-
ical.’’
CA staff acts as the commander’s conduit
to CIM and facilitate its integration into his
COP. Rather than react to one threat after
another, CA staff helps the commander un-
derstand the factors that contribute to civil
unrest and make societies vulnerable to ne-
farious actors. Facilitating the commander’s
single unity of conception, CA staff enables
him to make decisions that not only defeat
threats but prevent them from arising in the
first place. When kinetic operations are the
priority, CA staff provides solutions to re-
duce ‘‘the friction between U.S. forces and
the local populations,’’ as well as mitigate
‘‘their impact on military operations.’’
The effects produced by CA staff are felt
well above the level of their supported com-
mand. ‘‘Policy, doctrine, and strategy have
increasingly leaned on the information
gleaned from nontraditional sources . . .
such as through social actions, internet, and
private sector partners to create a more ac-
curate view of the area of responsibility.’’
Just as ‘‘generals must prioritize when they
fight,’’ they must prioritize how they train.
CA staff provides these real-world inputs to
enable the U.S. military in its entirety to
train as it fights, further contributing to its
readiness.
THE RIGHT WAY OF WARFIGHTING
In Churchill’s mind, setting these condi-
tions culminates in war being fought the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.055 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5307
August 1, 2019
right way. He saw war and politics as two ex-
tremes on the same spectrum, in which ‘‘the
real work of politics begins where war ends—
and ends where war begins.’’ He found that
‘‘the distinction between politics and strat-
egy diminishes as the point of view is raised.
At the summit true politics and strategy are
one.’’
This being the case, for Churchill it was
‘‘not enough to win. One must win in the
right way in order to serve the purposes of
peace, which are the purposes of politics.’’
The greatest generals were those who ‘‘con-
ducted war in ways that were compatible
with the aims of politics.’’ They ‘‘manage to
make the gravest choices well because they
combine the functions of statesman and gen-
eral,’’ meaning that they account for both
the military and political consequences of
their decisions.
Churchill’s analysis holds true in today’s
geopolitical climate. Dr. Kevin Melton and
COL (Ret.) Christopher Holshek acknowl-
edge, ‘‘Ultimately, neither stability nor se-
curity are ends within themselves, but a way
to foster an environment necessary for en-
hancing social cohesion, governance, eco-
nomic livelihood that comprise the grand
strategic goal of peace.’’ Consequently ‘‘the
U.S. can neither afford—fiscally nor politi-
cally—to engage in perpetual warfare, nor to
ignore simmering dynamics that have the
potential to eventually threaten national or
global security.’’ It is in this reality that CA
forces are best positioned to prove their
value, because the end of all CA efforts is to
translate military victory into political
gains.
In 2016, then-Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster ‘‘de-
scribed war as essentially political, human,
and uncertain—and thus the key role Civil
Affairs plays in managing those deter-
minants.’’ In shoring up the civil foundation
of a given society, CA forces lay the ground-
work for stable and sustainable governance
well before kinetic operations have begun
and long after they have ended. They do this
‘‘by building and sustaining relationships
with host nation and non-state partners, and
proactively engaging in activities such as
supporting local governance, education and
employment programs, and elevating mod-
erate voices in civil society through active
engagement.’’
While emphasizing the ethical need to
fight wars the right way to bring about the
desired political effects, Churchill also
stressed the economic necessity of doing so.
He found, ‘‘Wars fought strategically are
cheaper, in both men and materiel. They
happen faster, and so they economize the
time spent in conflict.’’ Both the low-cost
and non-kinetic nature of CA contribute to
economy of time and resources, as does the
prevention of economic loss among the civil
populace. Described by COL (Ret.) Holshek
as the ‘‘low-tech solution to low-tech prob-
lems,’’ CA forces produce effects dispropor-
tionate to their cost.
CONCLUSION
An accurate and complete grasp of the
truth, the on-the-ground reality, in both the
particulars and as a single unity of concep-
tion, enables both statesmen and generals to
make those consequential decisions per-
taining to the national security of the
United States. Danielle Pletka of the Amer-
ican Enterprise Institute agrees that the rec-
ipe for success is clear: ‘‘Understand the re-
ality. Look at the problems. Identify the so-
lution. Keep an eye on dangerous currents.
And remember that any solution that does
not lead back to the true roots of stable gov-
ernance will be no solution at all in the long
run.’’ Army CA forces are single-mindedly
committed to supporting those efforts, and
they start by simply paying attention.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
CONGRATULATING THE VANDER-
BILT UNIVERSITY MEN’S BASE-
BALL TEAM
∑ Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, as
a fellow Commodore and former Van-
derbilt athlete, I would like to con-
gratulate the Vanderbilt University
baseball team on winning the 2019 Na-
tional Collegiate Athletic Association
Men’s College World Series, the second
championship title for the baseball
program and the fifth national cham-
pionship in Commodore athletic his-
tory.
Tim Corbin, in his 17th season as
head baseball coach, has built a pro-
gram that not only contends each year
for college baseball’s top prize, but has
developed a culture of excellence
among his athletes, both on the field
and off. En route to their second na-
tional title, Coach Corbin’s team, also
referred to as the Vandy Boys, broke
the Southeastern Conference record
with 59 total victories, while also win-
ning both the regular season and tour-
nament titles. Without Vanderbilt’s
seven-member senior class, the Com-
modores’ success could not have been
possible. These seniors provided leader-
ship and stability to a program that
had a target on its back throughout
the season.
This achievement is due to the hard
work, talent, and teamwork of the fol-
lowing outstanding student-athletes:
Harrison Ray, Cooper Davis, Philip
Clarke, Tate Kolywck, Isaiah Thomas,
Ethan Paul, Matt Hogan, Dominic
Keegan, Kiambu Fentress, Austin Mar-
tin, Walker Grisanti, Pat DeMarco,
Stephen Scott, Ty Duvall, Tyler
Brown, Julian Infante, Ethan Smith,
Patrick Raby, Sterling Hayes, Hugh
Fisher, Erik Kaiser, Zach King, Jack-
son Gillis, John Malcom, Jake Eder,
Justyn-Henry Malloy, Austin Becker,
Mason Hickman, Chance Huff, AJ
Franklin, JJ Bleday, Joe Gobillot,
Drake Fellows, Kumar Rocker, and
Jayson Gonzalez.
These student-athletes were coached
and mentored by a dedicated team of
coaches and athletic department staff,
including: Head Coach Tim Corbin, As-
sociate Head Coach Scott Brown, As-
sistant Coach Mike Baxter, Volunteer
Coach David Macias, Athletic Trainer
Tracy Campbell, Strength and Condi-
tioning Coach Chris Ham, Director of
Baseball Operations Brooks Webb, Di-
rector of Player Development Brandon
Barak, Video Coordinator Josh
Ruchotzke, Equipment Manager Kevin
Collins, and Student Managers Jack
Goodrum, Chase Casali, Jackson
Kelley, and Ethan Stem.
I would also like to acknowledge
Chancellor Nicholas S. Zeppos, Vice
Chancellor for Athletics and University
Affairs and Athletics Director Malcolm
Turner, Deputy Athletics Director
Candice Storey Lee, and Associate Ath-
letic Director Phillip Brown for their
leadership.
Anchor Down, Commodores. We are
proud of you.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CRYSTAL GADDO
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Crystal Gaddo of Gallatin County for
her excellence in public service.
Crystal serves as a registered nurse
at the Bozeman VA Community Based
Outpatient Clinic. A veteran herself,
Crystal spent 8 years as a Medic in the
U.S. Army.
She is an exemplary employee at the
VA. In her role as a registered nurse,
Crystal was nominated for the Daisy
Awards for excellent performance
twice. Crystal has also recruited and
mentored other nurses to help fill crit-
ical positions in the VA system. In ad-
dition, Crystal participated in multiple
committees to better serve our vet-
erans and support nursing practices.
In October of 2019, Crystal was flying
to Atlanta for a training, when one of
the passengers began to choke. She
quickly stepped into action and saved
his life. Because of her swift actions,
the passenger was able to walk off the
plane harm-free.
I thank Crystal for her service to our
country and her service to the veterans
of Bozeman. It is my distinct honor to
recognize her character and life of
service as a shining example of the best
Montana has to offer.∑
f
TRIBUE TO ROGER HUTSON
∑ Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize a giant of Denver
and Colorado’s business and philan-
thropic community, Mr. Roger Hutson.
Mr. Hutson is the president and CEO of
HRM Resources III, which is
headquartered in Denver and produces
energy in Colorado, Nebraska, Wyo-
ming, and Kansas.
Mr. Hutson has a servant’s heart. He
has offered his business acumen and
leadership experience to serve others in
Colorado for decades. Mr. Hutson grad-
uated from the Colorado School of
Mines with a bachelor of science in ge-
ological engineering in 1982, one of the
Nation’s leading engineering schools.
In 2004, Governor Bill Owens appointed
Mr. Hutson to the school’s board of
trustees, and he was reappointed in
2009 by Governor Bill Ritter. During his
two terms of service, he served as
president of the board of trustees and
chairman of the finance and audit com-
mittee. He has served on many other
boards and commission at both the
State and local levels.
Because he is passionate about busi-
ness, education, economic develop-
ment, and public policy, Mr. Hutson
was the first oil and gas executive
asked to join the exclusive business or-
ganization known as Colorado Concern.
There, he works with top Colorado ex-
ecutives who are interested in enhanc-
ing and protecting our State’s business
climate, a business climate that is
widely recognized as the best in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.057 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5308 August 1, 2019
Nation thanks to the work of people
like Mr. Hutson.
He has no doubt touched countless
lives in Colorado as he has provided his
time, talent, and resources to advance
the causes he cares deeply about. He
served as a mentor for the Denver Pe-
troleum Club in 2013 and helped a group
of young industry professionals raise
more than $700,000 for the Wounded
Warriors Project. He has also sup-
ported the Children’s Hospital, the
Denver Center for the Performing Arts,
the Tennyson Center, and the Newman
Center.
Mr. Hutson will be honored next
week at the Navy Seal Foundation’s
Denver Evening of Tribute. He is wor-
thy of this recognition, and I thank
him for serving and impacting so many
people in the State of Colorado.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ERIK BECKER
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I am
proud to recognize Erik Becker of Lan-
caster, NH, as August’s Granite Stater
of the Month for his dedication to im-
proving the community he grew up in
and for lending support to those in
need.
As the Student Assistance Program
coordinator at Groveton High School—
the very same high school that he
graduated from—Erik sees firsthand
how important it is to ensure that stu-
dents have both emotional and mate-
rial support throughout the year, not
just during the school months.
During the summer, kids usually lose
the relationship that they have formed
with teachers during the school year.
To prevent his relationships from
weakening during the summer, Erik
spends 15 hours a week at the school
helping to distribute free lunches to
kids in need, while also acting as a
‘‘big brother’’ for students who just
need someone to talk to.
Erik also works at the community
homeless shelter, Tyler Blaine House.
He started out as a support staff mem-
ber but moved his way up to a full-time
case manager position to help individ-
uals seeking to break the cycle of
homelessness and get back on their
feet.
In addition, Erik is the founder of the
Black Crow Project, which he and a few
friends founded after seeing how the
substance misuse epidemic had nega-
tively affected their community. The
Black Crow Project seeks to act as a
support system for those impacted by
substance abuse. Right now, the group
is working to revitalize the Lancaster/
Groveton Crowalition, a community
coalition that provides support, train-
ing, and guidance to individuals suf-
fering from addiction. In 2016, the
group also helped put on one of the
largest Narcan kit distribution/aware-
ness events in New Hampshire.
One of Erik’s favorite projects as
part of his work with the Black Crow
Project is the Small Town Loud Fest,
an annual event that brings people of
all ages together to combat substance
misuse, all while listening to area
bands in a substance-free space.
To top off all of this community in-
volvement, Erik also acts as a recovery
coach for those battling addiction.
In New Hampshire, we have a tradi-
tion and ethos of seizing the initiative
in order to make a difference, and
Erik’s activism and engagement exem-
plifies what it means to be a Granite
Stater. His passion and dedication to
improving the lives of the people who
he grew up with is making a difference
and will spur and enable others to do
the same. New Hampshire is lucky to
have him.∑
f
RECOGNIZING TAPPAN CHAIRS
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I
would like to recognize the 200th anni-
versary of Tappan Chairs of Sandwich,
NH.
One of the first settlers of Sandwich,
Abraham Tappan first created a ladder-
backed Tappan chair in 1819. The chairs
became an iconic and treasured part of
the town’s history, with subsequent
generations of the Tappan family
crafting chairs from stout rock maple
and hardy white ash and selling and
trading them throughout the region.
In the 1930s, the business moved out
of the family and was run by various
members of the Sandwich community.
The business continued in affiliation
with the Sandwich Home Industries, an
original incarnation of the League of
New Hampshire Craftsmen. Tappan
Chairs almost disappeared in the early
1960s but was saved at auction. In the
1980s and 1990s the company was revi-
talized once again by Gunnar Berg,
who established a national market for
this unique type of furniture.
Currently, the business is run by
Adam Nudd-Homeyer, who has dedi-
cated himself to studying the chairs’
story, design, and build, bringing older
models back into production and ex-
panding the selection of the furniture’s
materials. Adam has also continued
the tradition of using Tappan Chairs to
help raise money for local, regional,
and national nonprofits.
Tappan Chairs is the only commis-
sioned chairmaker in the world for the
living Shaker community and is devel-
oping a limited edition historic repro-
duction piece with the foremost Shaker
museum in the country. This iconic
business and pillar of the community is
now housed in the former Sandwich
General Store building, having trans-
formed the space into an open work-
shop, showroom, and history exhibit.
For 200 years, Tappan Chairs has
crafted high-quality, beautiful chairs,
innovating in numerous ways while
also staying true to techniques and de-
signs that have stood the test of time.
As the business has passed from one
maker to the next over, from genera-
tion to generation, this wonderful com-
pany has encouraged Granite Staters
to treasure our past and embrace the
future.
Mr. President, I hope you will join
me in honoring the 200th anniversary
of a treasured New Hampshire business,
Tappan Chairs.∑
f
132ND ANNIVERSARY OF
EATONVILLE, FLORIDA
∑ Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
on August 15, 1887, 2 years after the end
of the Civil War, history was made in
Florida, when a group of newly freed
slaves voted to incorporate the town of
Eatonville on 122 acres of land. With its
founding, Eatonville became the first
African-American incorporated city in
America. I want to congratulate
Eatonville as they celebrate their 132nd
anniversary and Founders Day this Au-
gust. The story of Eatonville is one
that all Americans should be proud of,
and it stands today as an example to
our Nation and the world.
This town started as a tightly knit
community, built around church,
school, and family, and they have
maintained that heritage through over
a century of growth and development.
They share the challenges faced by all
of our communities: the need for good
jobs, a great education for their chil-
dren, and a safe community.
Eatonville is famous for being the
home for two influential authors, Zora
Neale Hurston and Alice Walker. Zora
Neale Hurston wrote about Eatonville
in her 1937 novel, ‘‘Their Eyes Were
Watching God.’’ Forty-five years later,
Alice Walker would write ‘‘The Color
Purple,’’ which shared similar themes.
Today, Eatonville and Zora Neale
Hurston are recognized in the Smithso-
nian Institution’s National Museum of
African American History and Culture
in Washington, DC.
In 2018, the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation awarded Eatonville the
prestigious Culture of Health Prize for
their efforts to address the high rates
of diabetes in their community. This is
an honor awarded to just a handful of
communities across the Nation each
year, with only 4 winning cities out of
200 entries.
To address the health needs of the
entire community, they created the
Healthy Eatonville Initiative and es-
tablished a diabetes education and re-
search center, the Healthy Eatonville
Place, where residents can come to
learn how to improve diet and exercise
habits. They improved access to fresh
fruits and vegetables. They built safe
sidewalks and bike paths and placed
historical markers along the way for
all residents to learn and take pride in
their rich history.
I am proud of the community spirit
of Eatonville and the work they have
put in to make the community so suc-
cessful. As Governor and now as Sen-
ator, it is an honor to work with part-
ners like the Town of Eatonville to
make Florida the best place to live,
work, and raise a family, and I look
forward to their future achievements.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.045 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5309
August 1, 2019
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
CRAWFORD PATH
∑ Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize the Crawford Path
on its 200th year of continuous oper-
ation. As the first trail to the summit
of 6,288-foot Mount Washington, the
Crawford Path has provided adventure,
physical challenge, and fantastic al-
pine views of the White Mountains for
two centuries of hikers and travelers.
Ethan Allen Crawford, for whom the
trail is named, first proposed the idea
for a path to the peak of Mount Wash-
ington. Ethan and his father Abel oper-
ated the Crawford House, a modest
wayside inn which provided shelter and
accommodations for travelers at the
inception of the tourism industry in
the White Mountains. As an early en-
trepreneur, he realized he could make a
little extra money serving as a moun-
tain guide to these travelers. After see-
ing and hearing how difficult it was to
move through the thick mountain
brush, Ethan and Abel set out to cut
some trees and build a footpath that
offered better access to the Northeast’s
highest peak. Their path snaked
through the woods, eclipsed the tree
line, and traversed ridges and peaks on
its way to the summit. The finished
product as among the first hiking
trails in the United States and estab-
lished Ethan as an early mountain
guide.
The Crawford Path capitalized on
growing interest in the wilderness, and
more and more travelers viewed the
mountains as an outlet for recreational
experiences. On one of Ethan’s guided
treks to the top of Mount Washington,
he led a group that named the sur-
rounding peaks—Mount Adams, Mount
Jefferson, Mount Madison, Mount Mon-
roe, Mount Franklin, and Mount Pleas-
ant, now famously known as the Presi-
dential Range.
The family continued to cut trails on
the mountain, including a bridle path
in the 1840s that led horse riders to the
summit. Abel—by then in his seven-
ties—became the first person to ascend
Mount Washington on a horse. Years
later, the mountain pass where they
worked was renamed ‘‘Crawford Notch’’
as a tribute to the family’s contribu-
tions to the region.
Generations of hikers have walked
along the path first forged by the
Crawfords, and generations of trail
crews have maintained the 8.5-mile
route for the enjoyment of the public.
The Crawford Path carries day hikers
as well as thru-hikers tackling the Ap-
palachian Trail. Each is instantly con-
nected to 200 years of experiences and
adventures.
The White Mountains are now a
thriving, well-known, four-season tour-
ist destination, where travelers in
numbers Abel and Ethan could not
have imagined come to observe unpar-
alleled natural beauty.
On behalf of the people of New Hamp-
shire, I ask my colleagues and all
Americans to join me in recognizing
the Crawford Path on its 200 year anni-
versary and in thanking its many stew-
ards for preserving the oldest contin-
ually-used mountain trail in the
United States.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JAYDEN BIES
∑ Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
recognize Jayden Bies, an intern in my
Washington, DC, office, for all of the
hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the State of South Dakota
over the past several weeks.
Jayden is a graduate of St Thomas
More High School in Rapid City, SD.
Currently, she is attending Grand Can-
yon University in Phoenix, AZ, where
she is majoring in government with an
emphasis in legal studies. She is a hard
worker who has been dedicated to get-
ting the most out of her internship ex-
perience.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Jayden for all of the fine
work she has done and wish her contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ALLYSON MONSON
∑ Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
recognize Allyson Monson, an intern in
my Washington, DC, office, for all of
the hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the State of South Dakota
over the past several weeks.
Allyson is a graduate of Clark High
School in Clark, SD. Currently, she is
attending South Dakota State Univer-
sity in Brookings, SD, where she is
double majoring in political science
and communication studies and
minoring in legal studies. She is a hard
worker who has been dedicated to get-
ting the most out of her internship ex-
perience.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Allyson for all of the fine
work she has done and wish her contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO KATHERINE TAYLOR
∑ Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
recognize Katherine Taylor, an intern
in my Washington, DC, office, for all of
the hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the State of South Dakota
over the past several weeks.
Katherine is a graduate of George C.
Marshall High School in Falls Church,
VA. Currently, she is attending Vir-
ginia Tech in Blacksburg, VA, where
she is majoring in finance. She is a
hard worker who has been dedicated to
getting the most out of her internship
experience.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Katherine for all of the
fine work she has done and wish her
continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO EDA UZUNLAR
∑ Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
recognize Eda Uzunlar, an intern in my
Washington, DC, office, for all of the
hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the State of South Dakota
over the past several weeks.
Eda is a graduate of Stevens High
School in Rapid City, SD. Currently,
she is attending Yale University in
New Haven, CT, where she is pursuing
a degree in global affairs. She is a hard
worker who has been dedicated to get-
ting the most out of her internship ex-
perience.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Eda for all of the fine
work she has done and wish her contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
RECOGNIZING THE WALT WHIT-
MAN HIGH SCHOOL CLASS OF
1969
∑ Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, on
Saturday, June 29, 2019, more than 125
members of the Class of 1969 of Walt
Whitman High School in Bethesda, MD,
held their 50th graduation class re-
union celebration. Over the years, Walt
Whitman High School has been recog-
nized as one of the best high schools in
the Nation. The WWHS class of 1969 is
an outstanding representation of that
excellence.
The Mighty Sixty-Niners, as they
call themselves, have earned the char-
acterization of ‘‘mighty.’’ From its be-
ginning in 1962, Walt Whitman High
School was experimental and forward-
looking. The original school setting in-
cluded a Buckminster Fuller-type geo-
desic dome that served as the school’s
main gymnasium and auditorium and
as its unique visual focal point. For
years afterwards, WWHS was locally
and proudly known as ‘‘The Home of
the Dome.’’
The WWHS class of 1969 contributed
much to the rich history of the school.
In 1968, a time of heightened racial ten-
sions throughout the country, Whit-
man students and faculty established
an exchange program with several high
schools in the District of Columbia.
Participating Whitman students lived
for a week and attended classes at DC’s
McKinley High School and Cardozo
High School. The following week, the
McKinley and Cardozo students spent a
week at WWHS with their Whitman
counterparts. Those exchanges helped
develop greater understanding between
the participants.
The WWHS class of 1969 also insti-
tuted a weeklong Experiment in Free
Form Education. This novel edu-
cational program gained nationwide
media attention and accolades, includ-
ing a tribute on the floor of the U.S.
Senate on April 25, 1969, by then-U.S.
Senator Joseph Tydings of Maryland.
The Mighty Sixty-Niners have served
our Nation in many productive ways,
and they continue to do so, excelling in
many fields—the arts, politics, govern-
ment, education, literature, engineer-
ing, law, business and publishing,
among others.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
sending our very best wishes and con-
gratulations to the Walt Whitman High
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.048 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5310 August 1, 2019
School class of 1969 on the occasion of
its 50th reunion.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgeway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 2:52 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that Speaker has signed the
following enrolled bills:
H.R. 2695. An act to rename the Success
Dam in Tulare County, California, as the
Richard L. Schafer Dam.
H.R. 3253. An act to provide for certain ex-
tensions with respect to the Medicaid pro-
gram under title XIX of the Social Security
Act, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3877. An act to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, to establish a congressional budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other pur-
poses.
The enrolled bills were subsequently signed
by the President pro tempore (Mr. GRASS-
LEY).
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2169. A communication from the Chair-
man, Farm Credit System Insurance Cor-
poration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Corporation’s annual report for calendar
year 2018; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2170. A communication from the Chief
of the Environmental Management Division,
Office of Procurement and Property Manage-
ment, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Designation of Product Categories for
Federal Procurement’’ (RIN0599–AA26) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 31, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2171. A communication from the Acting
Deputy General Counsel for Operations, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, transmitting, pursuant to law, two (2)
reports relative to vacancies in the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development, re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 31, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2172. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director for Regulatory Affairs, Office of
Foreign Assets Control, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Global Terrorism
Sanctions Regulations; Transnational Crimi-
nal Organizations Sanctions Regulations;
and Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regula-
tions’’ (31 CFR Parts 566, 590, and 594) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 31, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2173. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, Department of Labor, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Definition of ‘Employer’ Under
Section 3(5) of ERISA—Association Retire-
ment Plans and Other Multiple-Employer
Plans’’ (RIN1210–AB88) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 31,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2174. A communication from the Dis-
trict of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled, ‘‘Low-Ranked
Projects Secure Affordable Housing Funds’’;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2175. A communication from the Dis-
trict of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled, ‘‘Some
Progress Made But More Improvement Need-
ed In Management of Personally Identifiable
Information’’; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2176. A communication from the Dis-
trict of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled, ‘‘D.C. Schools
Shortchange At-Risk Students’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2177. A communication from the Dis-
trict of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled, ‘‘Panel Meets
Most Requirements for Domestic Violence
Fatality Review’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2178. A communication from the Fed-
eral Liaison Officer, Patent and Trademark
Office, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Changes to Trademark Rules of Prac-
tice to Mandate Electronic Filing’’ (RIN0651–
AD15) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 31, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
EC–2179. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy for the position of Under Secretary of
Transportation for Policy, Department of
Transportation, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 31, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2180. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zones; Port of Palm Beach, Port Ever-
glades, Port of Miami, and Port of Key West,
Florida’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket No. USCG–
2018–0007)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on July 31, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2181. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Ohio River, Brookport, IL’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0486)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 31, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2182. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Cumberland River, Grand Riv-
ers, KY’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0514)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on July 31, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2183. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Beaufort Water Festival Air
Show, Beaufort, SC’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Dock-
et No. USCG–2019–0521)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 31,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2184. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Allegheny River, Mile 0 to
Mile 0.6, Pittsburgh, PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0621)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
31, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2185. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; City of St. Charles Riverfest,
Missouri River, St. Charles’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0581)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
31, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–124. A resolution adopted by the
Board of the Village of Tivoli, New York urg-
ing the United States Congress to pass the
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act;
to the Committee on Finance.
POM–125. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to the construction
and maintenance of physical barriers be-
tween the United States and foreign nations;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 2302. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to authorize funds for Federal-
aid highways and highway safety construc-
tion programs, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. INHOFE for the Committee on
Armed Services.
* Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Michael
M. Gilday, to be Admiral.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\AUGUST\S01AU9.REC S01AU9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5311
August 1, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 2412. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage of
addiction counselor services under part B of
the Medicare program; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. LEE,
Mr. JONES, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 2413. A bill to exclude the imposition of
duties and import quotas from the authori-
ties provided to the President under the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. CASEY):
S. 2414. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the Health Cov-
erage Tax Credit; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
KING):
S. 2415. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to establish a grant program for
training wind technicians, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. PERDUE, and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. 2416. A bill to provide States with the
option of applying for and receiving tem-
porary waivers for the States to experiment
with new approaches that integrate Federal
programs in order to provide more coordi-
nated and holistic solutions to families in
need, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, and Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 2417. A bill to provide for payment of
proceeds from savings bonds to a State with
title to such bonds pursuant to the judgment
of a court; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. JONES, and Mr. SUL-
LIVAN):
S. 2418. A bill to amend the Gulf of Mexico
Energy Security Act of 2006 to modify a defi-
nition and the disposition and authorized
uses of qualified outer Continental Shelf rev-
enues under that Act and to exempt State
and county payments under that Act from
sequestration, to provide for the distribution
of certain outer Continental Shelf revenues
to the State of Alaska, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 2419. A bill to provide for the convey-
ance of a small parcel of Coconino National
Forest land in the State of Arizona; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Ms. ERNST):
S. 2420. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to require a DNA test to
determine the familial relationship between
an alien and an accompanying minor, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 2421. A bill to amend the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act to improve accountability of dis-
aster contracts, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 2422. A bill to advance the integration of
clean distributed energy into electric grids,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. 2423. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 for purposes of the tax on
private foundation excess business holdings
to treat as outstanding any employee-owned
stock purchased by a business enterprise
pursuant to certain employee stock owner-
ship retirement plans; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. CRAPO):
S. 2424. A bill to reauthorize the Young
Women’s Breast Health Education and
Awareness Requires Learning Young Act of
2009; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. COL-
LINS):
S. 2425. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to establish the CHP
Technical Assistance Partnership Program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 2426. A bill to establish a new timeline
for certain State implementation plan and
attainment requirements for the Fairbanks
North Star Borough of the State of Alaska,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mrs. FISCHER):
S. 2427. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint and issue quarter dollars in
commemoration of the 19th Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2428. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for certain re-
forms with respect to Medicare supplemental
health insurance policies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, and
Ms. HIRONO):
S. 2429. A bill to reauthorize the Coral Reef
Conservation Act of 2000 and to establish the
United States Coral Reef Task Force, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
PERDUE, and Mrs. HYDE-SMITH):
S. 2430. A bill to provide an exemption
from certain requirements for federally fund-
ed projects and activities in areas not in
metropolitan statistical areas, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 2431. A bill to require the Federal Com-
munications Commission to promulgate reg-
ulations requiring voice service providers to
provide consumers opt-out call-blocking pro-
grams by default and free of charge; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 2432. A bill to require Amtrak to place
at least 1 station agent in every State in
which Amtrak operates; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 2433. A bill to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to take certain ac-
tions to increase diversity of ownership in
the broadcasting industry, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 2434. A bill to establish the National
Criminal Justice Commission; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. PAUL,
and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 2435. A bill to amend the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 to provide that any esti-
mate prepared by the Congressional Budget
Office or the Joint Committee on Taxation
shall include costs relating to servicing the
public debt, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. 2436. A bill to establish in the States of
North Carolina and South Carolina the
Southern Campaign of the Revolution Na-
tional Heritage Corridor, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. YOUNG:
S. 2437. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a refundable
tax credit for parents who take leave from
employment following the birth or adoption
of a child; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. YOUNG):
S. 2438. A bill to prevent, treat, and cure
tuberculosis globally; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. KING (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. CORNYN, Ms. SINEMA,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 2439. A bill to amend the Trademark Act
of 1946 to provide that the licensing of a
mark for use by a related company may not
be construed as establishing an employment
relationship between the owner of the mark,
or an authorizing person, and either that re-
lated company or the employees of that re-
lated company, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SASSE:
S. 2440. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand permissible dis-
tributions from an employee’s health flexible
spending account or health reimbursement
arrangement to their health savings ac-
count; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SASSE:
S. 2441. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow individuals who
are not enrolled in a high deductible health
plan to have access to health savings ac-
counts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 2442. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to require the Small Business and Agri-
culture Regulatory Enforcement Ombuds-
man to create a centralized website for com-
pliance guides, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
CORNYN, and Mrs. BLACKBURN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.017 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5312 August 1, 2019
S. Res. 303. A resolution calling upon the
leadership of the Government of the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic of Korea to dis-
mantle its kwan-li-so political prison labor
camp system, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
ENZI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CARPER, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. COONS, Mr.
KAINE, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. CARDIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. HOEVEN,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and Ms. SMITH):
S. Res. 304. A resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Workforce Develop-
ment Month’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. REED, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. BALDWIN,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. KING, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. COONS, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. WYDEN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
and Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 305. A resolution designating the
week of September 14 through September 21,
2019, as ‘‘National Estuaries Week’’; consid-
ered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
179, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a clinical
trial of the effects of cannabis on cer-
tain health outcomes of adults with
chronic pain and post-traumatic stress
disorder, and for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 373
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 373, a bill to provide for the reten-
tion and service of transgender individ-
uals in the Armed Forces.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
430, a bill to extend the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) and the Sen-
ator from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 457, a
bill to require that $1 coins issued dur-
ing 2019 honor President George H.W.
Bush and to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue bullion coins during
2019 in honor of Barbara Bush.
S. 511
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 511, a bill to promote and
protect from discrimination living
organ donors.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
518, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for
Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 586
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 586, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to re-
move the 96-hour physician certifi-
cation requirement for inpatient crit-
ical access hospital services.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
638, a bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 655, a bill to impose additional re-
strictions on tobacco flavors for use in
e-cigarettes.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS), the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN), the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON), the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. RISCH), the Senator from
Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO), the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. SHELBY), the Senator
from West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the
Senator from California (Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 684, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to repeal the excise tax on high-
cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage.
S. 706
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 706, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to require
institutions of higher education to dis-
close hazing incidents, and for other
purposes.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. REED)
were added as cosponsors of S. 727, a
bill to combat international extremism
by addressing global fragility and vio-
lence and stabilizing conflict-affected
areas, and for other purposes.
S. 752
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
752, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for teach-
er and school leader quality enhance-
ment and to enhance institutional aid.
S. 775
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
775, a bill to amend the America COM-
PETES Act to require certain agencies
to develop scientific integrity policies,
and for other purposes.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 839, a bill to extend Federal Pell
Grant eligibility of certain short-term
programs.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 880, a bill to provide
outreach and reporting on comprehen-
sive Alzheimer’s disease care planning
services furnished under the Medicare
program.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) and the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CORNYN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 901, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to support indi-
viduals with younger onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
S. 903
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
903, a bill to direct the Secretary of En-
ergy to establish advanced nuclear
goals, provide for a versatile, reactor-
based fast neutron source, make avail-
able high-assay, low-enriched uranium
for research, development, and dem-
onstration of advanced nuclear reactor
concepts, and for other purposes.
S. 934
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.019 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5313
August 1, 2019
BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
934, a bill to prohibit mandatory or
compulsory checkoff programs.
S. 938
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON) was added as a cosponsor of S. 938,
a bill to amend the Intercountry Adop-
tion Act of 2000 to require the Sec-
retary of State to report on inter-
country adoptions from countries
which have significantly reduced adop-
tion rates involving immigration to
the United States, and for other
purposes.
S. 952
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
952, a bill to provide that the Federal
Communications Commission may not
prevent a State or Federal correctional
facility from utilizing jamming equip-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 962
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
962, a bill to provide funding for feder-
ally qualified health centers and the
National Health Service Corps.
S. 970
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 970, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for the participation of physical thera-
pists in the National Health Service
Corps Loan Repayment Program, and
for other purposes.
S. 1015
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1015, a bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget
to review and make certain revisions
to the Standard Occupational Classi-
fication System, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1047
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1047, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to create a depend-
ency and indemnity compensation al-
lowance for surviving spouses receiving
dependency and indemnity compensa-
tion from the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1088, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to require the
President to set a minimum annual
goal for the number of refugees to be
admitted, and for other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1102, a bill to promote se-
curity and energy partnerships in the
Eastern Mediterranean, and for other
purposes.
S. 1126
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1126, a bill to provide better care
for Americans living with Alzheimer’s
disease and related dementias and their
caregivers, while accelerating progress
toward prevention strategies, disease
modifying treatments, and, ultimately,
a cure.
S. 1141
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1141, a bill to
provide predictability and certainty in
the tax law, create jobs, and encourage
investment.
S. 1157
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1157, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish a schol-
arship program for educators of rural
students and provide for loan forgive-
ness for rural educators, to amend the
Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 to provide professional de-
velopment grants for rural elementary
schools and secondary schools, and for
other purposes.
S. 1159
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1159, a bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish the Office
of Inclusivity and Sexual Health and a
rural outreach grant program carried
out by that Office, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1161
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1161, a bill to support the education of
Indian children.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. THUNE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1168, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to ensure
campus access at public institutions of
higher education for religious groups.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1253, a bill to apply
requirements relating to delivery sales
of cigarettes to delivery sales of elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1307
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1307, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act and
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to im-
prove nutrition in tribal areas, and for
other purposes.
S. 1357
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1357, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to establish
direct care registered nurse-to-patient
staffing ratio requirements in hos-
pitals, and for other purposes.
S. 1391
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) and the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1391, a bill to require re-
porting regarding certain drug price in-
creases, and for other purposes.
S. 1403
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1403, a bill to amend the
Child Care Access Means Parents in
School Program under the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965.
S. 1475
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1475, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code to extend and modify
certain charitable tax provisions.
S. 1563
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1563, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act with respect to the Agency
for Toxic Substances and Disease Reg-
istry’s review and publication of illness
and conditions relating to veterans sta-
tioned at Camp Lejeune, North Caro-
lina, and their family members, and for
other purposes.
S. 1564
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1564, a
bill to require the Securities and Ex-
change Commission and certain Fed-
eral agencies to carry out a study re-
lating to accounting standards, and for
other purposes.
S. 1601
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1601, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to issue a
rule requiring all new passenger motor
vehicles to be equipped with a child
safety alert system, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1612
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1612, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to support com-
munity college and industry partner-
ships, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.021 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5314 August 1, 2019
S. 1615
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1615, a bill to amend titles
10 and 37, United States Code, to pro-
vide compensation and credit for re-
tired pay purposes for maternity leave
taken by members of the reserve com-
ponents, and for other purposes.
S. 1625
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1625, a bill to promote the deployment
of commercial fifth-generation mobile
networks and the sharing of informa-
tion with communications providers in
the United States regarding security
risks to the networks of those pro-
viders, and for other purposes.
S. 1723
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1723, a bill to amend the Omnibus
Parks and Public Lands Management
Act of 1996 to provide for the establish-
ment of a Ski Area Fee Retention Ac-
count.
S. 1782
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1782, a bill to add suicide
prevention resources to school identi-
fication cards.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the Sen-
ator from North Carolina (Mr. BURR),
the Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH),
the Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY), the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO), the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH), the
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON),
the Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN)
and the Senator from North Dakota
(Mr. HOEVEN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1822, a bill to require the Federal
Communications Commission to issue
rules relating to the collection of data
with respect to the availability of
broadband services, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1886
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from North Dakota (Mr.
HOEVEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1886, a bill to restrict security assist-
ance to Lebanon, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1974
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1974, a bill to amend the Public Utility
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to es-
tablish a renewable electricity stand-
ard, and for other purposes.
S. 1982
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1982, a bill to improve efforts to
combat marine debris, and for other
purposes.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2001, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal to
Willie O’Ree, in recognition of his ex-
traordinary contributions and commit-
ment to hockey, inclusion, and rec-
reational opportunity.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2026, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to reauthorize the farm to school pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2038
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2038, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the
credit for alternative fuel vehicle re-
fueling property, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2039
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2039, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the
issuance of exempt facility bonds for
zero-emission vehicle infrastructure.
S. 2040
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2040, a bill to establish a working
group on electric vehicles, and for
other purposes.
S. 2041
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2041, a bill to establish the Green
Spaces, Green Vehicles Initiative to fa-
cilitate the installation of zero-emis-
sions vehicle infrastructure on Na-
tional Forest System land, National
Park System land, and certain related
land, and for other purposes.
S. 2108
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2108, a bill to amend section 6903 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide
for additional population tiers, and for
other purposes.
S. 2112
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2112, a bill to enhance the rights of do-
mestic workers, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2179, a bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to provide social serv-
ice agencies with the resources to pro-
vide services to meet the urgent needs
of Holocaust survivors to age in place
with dignity, comfort, security, and
quality of life.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2203, a bill to extend the transfer of
Electronic Travel Authorization Sys-
tem fees from the Travel Promotion
Fund to the Corporation for Travel
Promotion (Brand USA) through fiscal
year 2027, and for other purposes.
S. 2238
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2238, a bill to
protect elections for public office by
providing financial support and en-
hanced security for the infrastructure
used to carry out such elections, and
for other purposes.
S. 2250
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2250, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to establish
State and Indian tribe grants for com-
munity colleges and grants for Histori-
cally Black Colleges and Universities,
Tribal Colleges and Universities, and
Minority-Serving Institutions, and for
other purposes.
S. 2260
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2260, a bill to provide for the im-
provement of domestic infrastructure
in order to prevent marine debris, and
for other purposes.
S. 2303
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2303, a bill to allow United States
citizens and legal residents to travel
between the United States and Cuba.
S. 2330
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, her
name and the name of the Senator
from Iowa (Ms. ERNST) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2330, a bill to amend
the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur
Sports Act to provide for congressional
oversight of the board of directors of
the United States Olympic and
Paralympic Committee and to protect
amateur athletes from emotional,
physical, and sexual abuse, and for
other purposes.
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2330, supra.
S. 2353
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2353, a bill to direct the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\AUGUST\S01AU9.REC S01AU9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5315
August 1, 2019
Administrator of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency to develop
guidance for firefighters and other
emergency response personnel on best
practices to protect them from expo-
sure to PFAS and to limit and prevent
the release of PFAS into the environ-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 2355
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2355, a bill to eliminate racial,
religious, and other discriminatory
profiling by law enforcement, and for
other purposes.
S. 2364
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2364, a bill to enhance domestic ma-
rine debris response, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2372
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2372, a bill to enhance global engage-
ment to combat marine debris, and for
other purposes.
S. 2389
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2389, a bill to provide access to
counsel for children and other vulner-
able populations.
S. 2390
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2390, a bill to prohibit the
imposition of the death penalty for any
violation of Federal law, and for other
purposes.
S. 2403
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2403, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Transportation to pro-
vide loans for the acquisition of elec-
tric buses and related infrastructure.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 252, a
resolution designating September 2019
as National Democracy Month as a
time to reflect on the contributions of
the system of government of the
United States to a more free and stable
world.
S. RES. 298
At the request of Mr. LEE, the names
of the Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST)
and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr.
ENZI) were added as cosponsors of S.
Res. 298, a resolution concurring with
the decision to withdraw the United
States from the INF Treaty, and for
other purposes.
S. RES. 299
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 299, a resolution
designating the first week in August
2019 as ‘‘World Breastfeeding Week’’,
and designating August 2019 as ‘‘Na-
tional Breastfeeding Month’’.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
PAUL, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 2435. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 to provide
that any estimate prepared by the Con-
gressional Budget Office or the Joint
Committee on Taxation shall include
costs relating to servicing the public
debt, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Budget.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today
the Senate passed disastrous legisla-
tion that I opposed, which increases
spending by $322 billion with few off-
sets and suspends the debt limit for 2
years with absolutely no reforms to
bring fiscal sanity to Washington. Ac-
cording to the Congressional Budget
Office, in 2029, the net interest on our
debt will near $1 trillion. The cost of
our debt is a pending crisis but current
rules for scoring the cost of legislative
proposals do not tell the full story, like
how much the bills will increase the
debt and the subsequent cost of inter-
est on that debt. This bill would re-
quire that information be included,
which in turn would increase trans-
parency for taxpayers, who will eventu-
ally foot the bill for this reckless
spending. I urge my colleagues to join
me in this commonsense proposal.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 303—CALL-
ING UPON THE LEADERSHIP OF
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUB-
LIC OF KOREA TO DISMANTLE
ITS KWAN-LI-SO POLITICAL
PRISON LABOR CAMP SYSTEM,
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
CORNYN, and Mrs. BLACKBURN) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.:
S. RES. 303
Whereas the public has long been aware of
the labor camp system in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea through contin-
uous eye-witness and survivor accounts, and
now publicly available satellite technology;
Whereas, according to the Hidden Gulag IV
report, the Government of North Korea runs
2 kinds of prison camps, the kwan-li-so and
the kyo-hwa-so, as well as ‘‘various types of
short-term forced labour detention facili-
ties’’;
Whereas the most heinous camps, the
kwan-li-so, are known as Prison Camp 14, 15,
16, and 25, which contain roughly 80,000 to
120,000 political prisoners;
Whereas the Inquiry on Crimes Against
Humanity in North Korea Political Prisons
Report of 2017, prepared by the War Crimes
Committee of the International Bar Associa-
tion, states that ‘‘hundreds of thousands of
inmates are estimated to have died’’ in the
kwan-li-so camps;
Whereas, from 1981 to 2013, an estimated
400,000 people out of 500,000 imprisoned were
killed in these labor camps;
Whereas persons who are sent to these
labor camps are forcibly disappeared and in-
tended to die, and the United Nations Com-
mission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea wrote
in 2014 that ‘‘the unspeakable atrocities’’
committed in the kwan-li-so camps ‘‘resem-
ble the horrors of camps that totalitarian
states established during the twentieth cen-
tury’’;
Whereas the United Nations Commission of
Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea found that ‘‘the
inmate population has been gradually elimi-
nated through deliberate starvation, forced
labour, executions, torture, rape and the de-
nial of reproductive rights enforced through
punishment, forced abortion and infan-
ticide’’;
Whereas up to 3 generations of a ‘‘viola-
tor’s’’ family will be sent to the labor camps
even if no ‘‘wrongdoing’’ is found;
Whereas, according to the Inquiry on
Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea
Political Prisons Report of 2017, the Govern-
ment of North Korea regularly and routinely
commits crimes against humanity, including
murder, extermination, enslavement, forc-
ible transfer, imprisonment, torture, sexual
violence, persecution, enforced disappear-
ances, and other inhumane acts;
Whereas, according to the best available
evidence, some of the specific crimes identi-
fied by the Inquiry are as follows:
(1) ‘‘Christians are heavily persecuted and
receive especially harsh treatment in prison
camps, with one former prison guard testi-
fying that ‘Christians were reactionaries and
there were lots of instructions. . .to wipe
out the seed of reactionaries’ ’’.
(2) Multiple witnesses watched prisoners
tortured and killed on account of their reli-
gious affiliation.
(3) A prisoner was raped by a security offi-
cer, after which the officer stuck a wooden
stick inside her vagina and beat her lower
body, resulting in her death within a week of
the rape.
(4) An abortion was induced by 3 men
standing on a wooden plank placed on a preg-
nant prisoner’s stomach.
(5) Another witness lost consciousness
after enduring a beating designed to trigger
premature labor, with prison officials killing
her baby before she could regain conscious-
ness.
(6) Rape victims who feared being killed
after becoming pregnant engaged in self-in-
duced abortions by eating dirt and poisoning
themselves with flower roots.
(7) Other rape victims self-induced abor-
tions by inserting a rubber tube in their va-
ginas.
(8) Rape of teenage girls and their subse-
quent attempts to commit suicide by jump-
ing in the Dae™dong-gang River were so com-
mon that prison guards were deployed to the
river to thwart them.
(9) Four pregnant women were executed for
protesting the fact guards forced them to
run down a mountain in a failed effort to in-
duce miscarriages.
(10) Twelve prisoners were shot and killed
in the commotion that ensued after the exe-
cution of the 4 pregnant women referenced in
paragraph (9), and a former prison guard wit-
nessed a prisoner’s newborn baby, most like-
ly fathered by a high-ranking official, fed to
guard dogs and killed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.025 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5316 August 1, 2019
(11) Female prisoners suspected of being
impregnated by non-Korean men (namely
Chinese men) are subjected to especially
harsh treatment, with one witness describing
a prisoner being injected with a labor-induc-
ing drug and having to watch as a guard suf-
focated her newborn to death with a wet
towel.
(12) A former North Korean army nurse
testified that she saw multiple abortions per-
formed by injecting Ravenol (a motor oil)
into the wombs of pregnant women and that
babies born 3 to 4 months premature were
‘‘wrapped in newspapers and put in a bucket
until buried’’ behind the detention center.
(13) Deliberate starvation, malnutrition,
and overwork are extremely common, result-
ing in the deaths of countless prisoners.
(14) At one prison camp, 1,500 to 2,000 pris-
oners, mostly children, are believed to have
died each year from malnutrition, while
many other prisoners were beaten to death
for failing to meet production quotas.
(15) Starving prisoners are regularly exe-
cuted when caught scavenging for food.
(16) At one prison camp, starving prisoners
who were found digging up edible plants on a
mountainside were shot to death.
(17) At another camp, a witness saw a fel-
low inmate executed for stealing potatoes,
while in a separate camp a witness described
the execution of numerous prisoners caught
scavenging for leftover food in prison guards’
quarters.
(18) A prisoner was beaten to death for hid-
ing stolen corn in his mouth.
(19) Public executions by firing squads or
other means are common, especially for pris-
oners caught attempting to escape.
(20) The existence of mass graves is well
documented, including detailed descriptions
of mass burial sites at or near prison camps,
as well as testimony about bodies being
‘‘dumped’’ on mountainsides near prison
camps.
(21) An undisclosed location near a prison
camp was regularly used for nighttime exe-
cutions, with gunshots clearly audible.
(22) At a 1990 prison riot, approximately
1,500 prisoners were shot and killed, their
bodies discarded in a closed mine.
(23) In order to satisfy production quotas,
inmates—including teenagers—were forced
to perform 15 to 16 hours of hard labor per
day.
(24) One witness was forced to perform hard
labor (carrying logs) when he was 9 years
old.
(25) At one mine in particular, prisoners
were forced to work 20 hours per day, with a
witness testifying that approximately 200
prisoners died each year at that mine alone.
(26) A soldier supervising a forced labor
site at a political prison rolled a log down a
steep mountainside, killing 10 prisoners as
they were carrying logs up the mountain.
(27) The bodies of some prisoners who died
as a result of forced labor or torture were
thrown into the cells of prisoners in solitary
confinement and later strung on barbed-wire
fences where they were eaten by crows.
(28) One witness described a torture cham-
ber with blood and flesh on the walls and de-
caying corpses of past victims placed in the
chamber in order to instill fear in the next
prisoner.
(29) Psychological abuse in political pris-
ons is pervasive, with gruesome acts, includ-
ing executions, carried out in plain view of
fellow prisoners in order to terrorize them.
(30) Torture is a routine feature of life in
political prisons, with a 2014 report by Am-
nesty International concluding that ‘‘North
Korea’s prison camps are very possibly home
to some of the most appalling torture in the
world’’;
Whereas officials of the Government of
North Korea continually deny the existence
of the labor camps;
Whereas the Inquiry on Crimes Against
Humanity in North Korea Political Prisons
Report of 2017 found that North Korea’s labor
camp system ‘‘has no parallel in the world
today’’; and
Whereas the United Nations Commission of
Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea found that the
government continually commits crimes
against humanity and will not cease, ‘‘be-
cause the policies, institutions, and patterns
of impunity that lie at their root remain in
place’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) calls upon the international community
to—
(A) demand that the Government of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea dis-
mantle its labor camp system;
(B) create a special tribunal with jurisdic-
tion to investigate and remedy crimes
against humanity committed by the Govern-
ment of North Korea;
(C) consider targeted sanctions against
those individuals who have committed such
crimes against humanity; and
(D) ban import of goods made by prisoners
in the North Korean labor camp system;
(2) calls on the leadership of the Govern-
ment of North Korea to—
(A) immediately cease human rights
abuses;
(B) release the roughly 80,000 to 120,000 po-
litical prisoners;
(C) halt the ongoing arrests of North Kore-
ans on political and religious grounds;
(D) allow the International Committee of
the Red Cross entry into the camps to assist
with the release and rehabilitation of pris-
oners;
(E) allow entry to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the
United Nations Special Rapporteur on
Human Rights in North Korea to monitor
the situation and assist with the rehabilita-
tion;
(F) comply with international standards of
food distribution and monitoring and allow
full access to international humanitarian
agencies; and
(G) end the exportation of North Korean
forced labor consistent with obligations
under United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 2397 (2017);
(3) strongly condemns the use of forced
labor by the Government of North Korea;
and
(4) calls on the United States Government
to—
(A) consider additional sanctions to the ex-
tent possible against those individuals re-
sponsible for the North Korean kwan-li-so
labor camp system, including individuals ad-
ministering such labor camps; and
(B) continue to raise awareness in the
international community of the kwan-li-so
labor camps and the continuing atrocious
crimes being committed in the labor camps.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 304—DESIG-
NATING SEPTEMBER 2019 AS
‘‘NATIONAL WORKFORCE DEVEL-
OPMENT MONTH’’
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
ENZI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CARPER, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
ROBERTS, Mr. COONS, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
DURBIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. MCSALLY,
Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and Ms. SMITH) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 304
Whereas investment in the education,
training, and career advancement of the
workforce in the United States, known as
‘‘workforce development’’, is crucial to the
ability of the United States to compete in
the global economy;
Whereas collaboration among Governors,
local governments, State and local edu-
cation, workforce, and human services agen-
cies, community colleges, local businesses,
employment service providers, community-
based organizations, and workforce develop-
ment boards provides for long-term, sustain-
able, and successful workforce development
across traditional sectors and emerging in-
dustries;
Whereas middle-skill jobs, which require
more than a high school diploma but not a 4-
year degree, comprise 53 percent of the labor
market, but only 43 percent of workers in
the United States are trained at that level,
creating a discrepancy that may limit
growth in changing industries such as health
care, manufacturing, and information tech-
nology;
Whereas 76 percent of business leaders say
that greater investment in skills training
would help their business;
Whereas, in 2014, Congress passed the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
(29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) with overwhelming bi-
partisan support in recognition of the need
to strengthen the focus of the United States
on the skills necessary to fill jobs in local
and regional industries;
Whereas the Workforce Innovation and Op-
portunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) supports
employment, training, and support services
for individuals with barriers to employment,
including—
(1) individuals who are low-income;
(2) individuals who are out of work, includ-
ing the long-term unemployed;
(3) individuals displaced by outsourcing;
(4) individuals living in rural areas or areas
with persistently high unemployment;
(5) individuals looking to learn new skills;
and
(6) individuals with disabilities;
Whereas the more than 550 workforce de-
velopment boards and 2,500 American Job
Centers are a driving force behind growing
regional economies by providing training, re-
sources, and assistance to workers who aim
to compete in the 21st century economy;
Whereas ongoing State and local imple-
mentation of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) pro-
vides unprecedented opportunities to develop
the skills of workers in the United States
through access to effective workforce edu-
cation and training, including the develop-
ment and delivery of proven strategies such
as sector partnerships, career pathways, in-
tegrated education and training, work-based
learning models, and paid internships;
Whereas, in 2018, programs authorized
under the Workforce Innovation and Oppor-
tunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.)—
(1) served nearly 6,000,000 young people and
adults;
(2) exceeded employment targets across all
programs; and
(3) helped more than 1,500,000 individuals,
including English language learners, gain
skills and credentials to help the individuals
succeed in the labor market;
Whereas State programs established under
the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et
seq.)—
(1) ensured that more than 5,400,000 unem-
ployed workers, including more than 500,000
veterans, had access to career services
through American Job Centers in 2018; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.029 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5317
August 1, 2019
(2) are a foundational part of the workforce
development system;
Whereas workforce development programs
will play a critical role in addressing the ex-
pected 2,400,000 unfilled manufacturing jobs
during the 10-year period following the adop-
tion of this resolution;
Whereas community colleges and other
workforce development training providers
across the United States are well-situated—
(1) to train the next generation of workers
in the United States; and
(2) to address the educational challenges
created by emerging industries and techno-
logical advancements;
Whereas participation in a career and tech-
nical education (referred to in this preamble
as ‘‘CTE’’) program decreases the risk of stu-
dents dropping out of high school, and all 50
States and the District of Columbia report
higher graduation rates for CTE students, as
compared to other students;
Whereas community and technical colleges
operate as open access institutions serving
millions of students annually at a compara-
tively low cost;
Whereas the Strengthening Career and
Technical Education for the 21st Century
Act (Public Law 115–224) supports the devel-
opment and implementation of high-quality
CTE programs that—
(1) combine rigorous academic content
with occupational skills; and
(2) served approximately 12,000,000 high
school and college students from 2016 to 2017;
Whereas there are more than 500,000 reg-
istered apprentices in the United States, and
there is growing and bipartisan support for
expanding earn-and-learn strategies to help
current and future workers gain skills and
work experience;
Whereas the federally supported workforce
system and partner programs—
(1) have helped rebuild the economy of the
United States and provide increased eco-
nomic opportunities; and
(2) provide a pathway into 21st century
jobs that support families while ensuring
that businesses in the United States find the
skilled workforce needed to compete in the
global economy; and
Whereas workforce development is crucial
to sustaining economic security for workers
in the United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates September 2019 as ‘‘National
Workforce Development Month’’;
(2) supports Federal initiatives to promote
workforce development; and
(3) acknowledges that workforce develop-
ment plays a crucial role in supporting
workers and growing the economy.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 305—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF SEP-
TEMBER 14 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 21, 2019, AS ‘‘NATIONAL
ESTUARIES WEEK’’
Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. MERKLEY,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. REED, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
BALDWIN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. KING, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. COONS, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. WYDEN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and
Mr. RUBIO) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 305
Whereas estuary regions cover only 13 per-
cent of the land area in the continental
United States but contain nearly 43 percent
of the population, 40 percent of the jobs, and
nearly 50 percent of the economic output of
the United States;
Whereas the commercial and recreational
fishing industries support over 1,700,000 jobs
in the United States;
Whereas in 2016—
(1) commercial and recreational saltwater
fishing in the United States generated more
than $212,000,000,000 in sales and contributed
$100,000,000,000 to the gross domestic product
of the United States;
(2) 9,800,000 saltwater anglers took rec-
reational fishing trips; and
(3) saltwater recreational fishing supported
472,000 jobs, generated $68,000,000,000 in sales
impacts across the economy, and contributed
$39,000,000,000 to the gross domestic product
of the United States;
Whereas estuaries provide vital habitats
for—
(1) countless species of fish and wildlife, in-
cluding more than 68 percent of the commer-
cial fish catch in the United States by value
and 80 percent of the recreational fish catch
in the United States by weight; and
(2) many species that are listed as threat-
ened or endangered species;
Whereas estuaries provide critical eco-
system services that protect human health
and public safety, including water filtration,
flood control, shoreline stabilization, erosion
prevention, and the protection of coastal
communities during hurricanes, storms, and
other extreme weather events;
Whereas, by the 1980s, the United States
had already lost more than 50 percent of the
wetlands that existed in the original 13 colo-
nies;
Whereas the ecosystem functions of some
coastal wetlands in the United States have
become severely impaired by excess nutri-
ents, chemical wastes, marine debris,
invasive species, coastal subsidence and sea
level changes, or upstream water and sedi-
ment management practices;
Whereas harmful algal blooms are hurting
fish, wildlife, and human health, and are
causing serious ecological and economic
harm to some estuaries;
Whereas section 320 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1330) (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Clean Water Act’’) au-
thorizes the development of comprehensive
conservation and management plans to en-
sure that the designated uses of estuaries are
protected and to restore and maintain the—
(1) chemical, physical, and biological in-
tegrity of estuaries;
(2) water quality;
(3) a balanced indigenous population of
shellfish, fish, and wildlife; and
(4) recreational activities in estuaries;
Whereas the Coastal Zone Management
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) provides
that the policy of the United States is to
preserve, protect, develop, and, if possible,
restore or enhance the resources of the
coastal zone of the United States, including
estuaries, for current and future generations;
Whereas 27 coastal and Great Lakes States
and territories of the United States operate
or contain a National Estuary Program or a
National Estuarine Research Reserve;
Whereas scientific study leads to a better
understanding of the benefits of estuaries to
human and ecological communities;
Whereas the Federal Government, State,
local, and Tribal governments, national and
community organizations, and individuals
work together to effectively manage the es-
tuaries of the United States;
Whereas estuary restoration efforts restore
natural infrastructure in local communities
in a cost-effective manner, helping to create
jobs and reestablish the natural functions of
estuaries that yield countless benefits; and
Whereas the week of September 14 through
September 21, 2019, is recognized as ‘‘Na-
tional Estuaries Week’’ to increase aware-
ness among all people of the United States,
including Federal Government and State,
local, and Tribal government officials, about
the importance of healthy estuaries and the
need to protect and restore estuaries: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of September 14
through September 21, 2019, as ‘‘National Es-
tuaries Week’’;
(2) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Estuaries Week;
(3) acknowledges the importance of estu-
aries to sustaining employment in the
United States and the economic well-being
and prosperity of the United States;
(4) recognizes that human activities can
have significant positive and negative im-
pacts on the quality and productivity of es-
tuary resources;
(5) applauds the work of national and com-
munity organizations and public partners
that promote public awareness, under-
standing, protection, and restoration of estu-
aries;
(6) supports the scientific study, preserva-
tion, protection, and restoration of estu-
aries; and
(7) expresses the intent of the Senate to
continue working to understand, protect,
and restore the estuaries of the United
States.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 935. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1340, to authorize activities to combat the
Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 936. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. KEN-
NEDY) proposed an amendment to the bill S.
862, to extend the sunset for collateral re-
quirements for Small Business Administra-
tion disaster loans.
SA 937. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. KEN-
NEDY) proposed an amendment to the bill S.
862, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 935. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1340, to authorize ac-
tivities to combat the Ebola outbreak
in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table; as fol-
lows:
On page 7, beginning on line 12, strike
‘‘Notwithstanding section 110’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘2018’’ on line 20 and insert
the following: ‘‘The Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment shall provide assistance, includ-
ing multi-sectoral, non-humanitarian, and
non-trade related foreign assistance, to the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, South
Sudan, and Burundi to effectively combat
the Ebola outbreak that began in August 20
2018, following certification from the Sec-
retary of State pursuant to section 110 of the
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000
(22 U.S.C. 7101) that each such country re-
ceiving assistance meets the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking
or is making significant efforts to bring
itself into compliance with such standards’’.
On page 8, after line 13, add the following:
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be constructed as pre-
venting humanitarian assistance from being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.030 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5318 August 1, 2019
provided to the Democratic Republic of the
Congo.
SA 936. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
KENNEDY) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 862, to extend the sunset for
collateral requirements for Small Busi-
ness Administration disaster loans; as
follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rebuilding
Small Businesses After Disasters Act’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF SUNSET FOR COLLATERAL
REQUIREMENTS FOR SBA DISASTER
LOANS.
Section 2102(b) of the RISE After Disaster
Act of 2015 (15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended, in
the matter preceding paragraph (1), by strik-
ing ‘‘4 years’’ and inserting ‘‘7 years’’.
SEC. 3. GAO REPORT ON DEFAULT RATES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall submit to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship of the Senate and the Committee
on Small Business of the House of Represent-
atives a report comparing—
(1) the performance, including the default
rate, of loans made under section 7(b)(1) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(1))
during the period—
(A) beginning on January 1, 2000; and
(B) ending on the date on which the Small
Business Administration began making loans
in accordance with the amendment made by
section 2102(a) of the RISE After Disaster
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–88; 129 Stat. 690);
and
(2) the performance, including the default
rate, of loans made under 7(b)(1) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(1)) in accord-
ance with the amendment made by section
2102(a) of the RISE After Disaster Act of 2015
(Public Law 114–88; 129 Stat. 690).
SA 937. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
KENNEDY) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 862, to extend the sunset for
collateral requirements for Small Busi-
ness Administration disaster loans; as
follows:
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘A bill to
extend the sunset for collateral requirements
for Small Business Administration disaster
loans.’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 2 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, August 1,
2019, at time to be determined, to con-
duct a hearing on pending nomina-
tions.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, August 1,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a business
meeting and hearing on the nomina-
tion of W. Stephen Muldrow, to be
United States Attorney for the District
of Puerto Rico, Department of Justice.
f
REPORTING AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the Senate’s adjournment,
committees be authorized to report
legislative and executive matters on
Friday, August 16, 2019, from 1 p.m.
until 3 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the major-
ity leader and the senior Senator from
Texas be authorized to sign duly en-
rolled bills or joint resolutions on Au-
gust 1 and August 2, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENTS AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the upcoming adjournment of
the Senate, the President of the Sen-
ate, the President pro tempore, and the
majority and minority leaders be au-
thorized to make appointments to com-
missions, committees, boards, con-
ferences, or interparliamentary con-
ferences authorized by law, by concur-
rent action of the two houses, or by
order of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 304, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 304) designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Workforce Develop-
ment Month’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 304) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
amble be agreed to and that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL ESTUARIES WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 305, submitted earlier
today.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 305) designating the
week of September 14 through September 21,
2019, as ‘‘National Estuaries Week’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to consider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 305) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution with its preamble is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION
ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Mr.
President, I ask unanimous consent
that the Senate proceed to the imme-
diate consideration of Calendar No. 44,
S. 394.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 394) to amend the Presidential
Transition Act of 1963 to improve the orderly
transfer of the executive power during Presi-
dential transitions.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with amendments. (The
parts of the bill intended to be stricken
are shown in boldfaced brackets and
the parts of the bill intended to be in-
serted are shown in italic.)
S. 394
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Presidential
Transition Enhancement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION ENHANCE-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3 of the Presi-
dential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102
note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘upon request,’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘including’’ and inserting
‘‘upon request, to each President-elect, each
Vice-President-elect, and, for up to 60 days
after the date of the inauguration of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.033 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5319
August 1, 2019
President-elect and Vice-President-elect,
each President and Vice President, for use in
connection with the preparations for the as-
sumption of official duties as President or
Vice President necessary services and facili-
ties, including’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or an employee of a com-
mittee of either House of Congress, a joint
committee of the Congress, or an individual
Member of Congress,’’ after ‘‘any branch of
the Government’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, or in the case of an em-
ployee in a position in the legislative
branch, with the consent of the supervising
Member of Congress’’ after ‘‘with the con-
sent of the head of the agency’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) The Administrator shall expend funds
for the provision of services and facilities
under this section—
‘‘(1) in connection with any obligation in-
curred by the President-elect or Vice-Presi-
dent-elect, or after the inauguration of the
President-elect as President and the inau-
guration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice
President incurred by the President or Vice
President, during the period—
‘‘(A) beginning on the day after the date of
the general elections held to determine the
electors of the President and Vice President
under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States
Code; and
‘‘(B) ending on the date that is 60 days
after the date of such inauguration; and
‘‘(2) without regard to whether the Presi-
dent-elect, Vice-President-elect, President,
or Vice President submits to the Adminis-
trator a request for payment regarding serv-
ices or facilities before the end of such pe-
riod.’’;
(3) in subsection (h)(2)(B)(ii), by striking
‘‘computers’’ and inserting ‘‘information
technology’’; and
(4) By adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i) MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than Sep-
tember 1 of a year during which a Presi-
dential election occurs, the Administrator
shall, to the maximum extent practicable,
enter into a memorandum of understanding
with each eligible candidate, which shall in-
clude, at a minimum, the conditions for the
administrative support services and facili-
ties described in subsection (a).
‘‘(2) EXISTING RESOURCES.—To the max-
imum extent practicable, a memorandum of
understanding entered into under paragraph
(1) shall be based on memorandums of under-
standing relating to previous Presidential
transitions.
‘‘(3) TRANSITION REPRESENTATIVE.—
‘‘(A) DESIGNATION OF REPRESENTATIVE FOR
INQUIRIES.—Each memorandum of under-
standing entered into under this subsection
shall designate a representative of the eligi-
ble candidate to whom the Administrator
shall direct any inquiries or legal instru-
ments regarding the records of the eligible
candidate that are in the custody of the Ad-
ministrator.
‘‘(B) CHANGE IN TRANSITION REPRESENTA-
TIVE.—The designation of a new individual as
the transition representative of an eligible
candidate shall not require the execution of
a new memorandum of understanding under
this subsection.
‘‘(C) TERMINATION OF DESIGNATION.—The
designation of a transition representative
under a memorandum of understanding shall
terminate—
‘‘(i) not later than September 30 of the
year during which the inauguration of the
President-elect as President and the inau-
guration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice
President occurs; or
‘‘(ii) before the date described in clause (i),
upon request of the President-elect or the
Vice-President-elect or, after such inaugura-
tion, upon request of the President or the
Vice President.
‘‘(4) AMENDMENTS.—Any amendment to a
memorandum of understanding entered into
under this subsection shall be agreed to in
writing.
‘‘(5) PRIOR NOTIFICATION OF DEVIATION.—
Each party to a memorandum of under-
standing entered into under this subsection
shall provide written notice, except to the
extent prohibited under another provision of
law, not later than 3 days before taking any
action that deviates from the terms and con-
ditions agreed to in the memorandum of un-
derstanding.
‘‘(6) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘eligible candidate’ has the meaning
given that term in subsection (h)(4).’’.
(b) AGENCY TRANSITIONS.—Section 4 of the
Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C.
102 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) the term ‘nonpublic information’—
‘‘(A) means information from the Federal
Government that a member of a transition
team obtains as part of the employment of
the member that such member knows or rea-
sonably should know has not been made
available to the general public; and
‘‘(B) includes information that a member
of the transition team knows or reasonably
should know—
‘‘(i) is exempt from disclosure under sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, or oth-
erwise protected from disclosure by law; and
‘‘(ii) is not authorized by the appropriate
government agency or officials to be released
to the public; and’’;
(2) in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of sub-
section (e)(3), by inserting ‘‘serving in a ca-
reer position’’ after ‘‘senior representative’’;
(3) by striking subsection (f)(2) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(2) ACTING OFFICERS.—Not later than Sep-
tember 15 of a year during which a Presi-
dential election occurs, and in accordance
with subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5,
United States Code, the head of each agency
shall ensure that a succession plan is in
place for each senior noncareer position in
the agency.’’; and
(4) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Novem-
ber 1’’ and inserting ‘‘October 1’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ETHICS PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each memorandum of
understanding under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an agreement that the eligible can-
didate will implement and enforce an ethics
plan to guide the conduct of the transition
beginning on the date on which the eligible
candidate becomes the President-elect.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—The ethics plan shall in-
clude, at a minimum—
‘‘(i) a description of the ethics require-
ments that will apply to all members of the
transition team, including any specific re-
quirement for transition team members who
will have access to nonpublic or classified in-
formation;
‘‘(ii) a description of how the transition
team will—
‘‘(I) address the role on the transition team
of—
‘‘(aa) lobbyists registered under the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.) and individuals who were former lobby-
ists registered under that Act; and
‘‘(bb) persons registered under the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611
et seq.), foreign nationals, and other foreign
agents;
‘‘(II) prohibit a transition team member
with conflicts of interest similar to those ap-
plicable to Federal employees under section
2635.402(a) and section 2635.502(a) of title 5,
Code of Federal Regulations, related to cur-
rent or former employment, affiliations, cli-
ents, or investments, from working on par-
ticular matters involving specific parties
that affect the interests of such member; and
‘‘(III) address how the covered eligible can-
didate will address his or her own conflicts of
interest during a Presidential term if the
covered eligible candidate becomes the
President-elect;
‘‘(iii) a Code of Ethical Conduct, which
each member of the transition team will sign
and be subject to, that reflects the content
of the ethics plans under this paragraph and
at a minimum requires transition team
members to—
‘‘(I) seek authorization from transition
team leaders or their designees before seek-
ing, on behalf of the transition, access to any
nonpublic information;
‘‘(II) keep confidential any nonpublic infor-
mation provided in the course of the duties
of the member with the transition and exclu-
sively use such information for the purposes
of the transition; and
‘‘(III) not use any nonpublic information
provided in the course of transition duties,
in any manner, for personal or private gain
for the member or any other party at any
time during or after the transition; and
‘‘(iv) a description of how the transition
team will enforce the Code of Ethical Con-
duct, including the names of the members of
the transition team responsible for enforce-
ment, oversight, and compliance.
‘‘(C) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—The transition
team shall make the ethics plan described in
this paragraph publicly available on the
øInternet¿ internet website of the General
Services Administration the earlier of—
‘‘(i) the day on which the memorandum of
understanding is completed; or
‘‘(ii) October 1.’’.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the committee-reported
amendments be agreed to; that the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
was agreed to.
The bill (S. 394), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 394
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Presidential
Transition Enhancement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION ENHANCE-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3 of the Presi-
dential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102
note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘upon request,’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘including’’ and inserting
‘‘upon request, to each President-elect, each
Vice-President-elect, and, for up to 60 days
after the date of the inauguration of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.050 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5320 August 1, 2019
President-elect and Vice-President-elect,
each President and Vice President, for use in
connection with the preparations for the as-
sumption of official duties as President or
Vice President necessary services and facili-
ties, including’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or an employee of a com-
mittee of either House of Congress, a joint
committee of the Congress, or an individual
Member of Congress,’’ after ‘‘any branch of
the Government’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, or in the case of an em-
ployee in a position in the legislative
branch, with the consent of the supervising
Member of Congress’’ after ‘‘with the con-
sent of the head of the agency’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) The Administrator shall expend funds
for the provision of services and facilities
under this section—
‘‘(1) in connection with any obligation in-
curred by the President-elect or Vice-Presi-
dent-elect, or after the inauguration of the
President-elect as President and the inau-
guration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice
President incurred by the President or Vice
President, during the period—
‘‘(A) beginning on the day after the date of
the general elections held to determine the
electors of the President and Vice President
under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States
Code; and
‘‘(B) ending on the date that is 60 days
after the date of such inauguration; and
‘‘(2) without regard to whether the Presi-
dent-elect, Vice-President-elect, President,
or Vice President submits to the Adminis-
trator a request for payment regarding serv-
ices or facilities before the end of such pe-
riod.’’;
(3) in subsection (h)(2)(B)(ii), by striking
‘‘computers’’ and inserting ‘‘information
technology’’; and
(4) By adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i) MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than Sep-
tember 1 of a year during which a Presi-
dential election occurs, the Administrator
shall, to the maximum extent practicable,
enter into a memorandum of understanding
with each eligible candidate, which shall in-
clude, at a minimum, the conditions for the
administrative support services and facili-
ties described in subsection (a).
‘‘(2) EXISTING RESOURCES.—To the max-
imum extent practicable, a memorandum of
understanding entered into under paragraph
(1) shall be based on memorandums of under-
standing relating to previous Presidential
transitions.
‘‘(3) TRANSITION REPRESENTATIVE.—
‘‘(A) DESIGNATION OF REPRESENTATIVE FOR
INQUIRIES.—Each memorandum of under-
standing entered into under this subsection
shall designate a representative of the eligi-
ble candidate to whom the Administrator
shall direct any inquiries or legal instru-
ments regarding the records of the eligible
candidate that are in the custody of the Ad-
ministrator.
‘‘(B) CHANGE IN TRANSITION REPRESENTA-
TIVE.—The designation of a new individual as
the transition representative of an eligible
candidate shall not require the execution of
a new memorandum of understanding under
this subsection.
‘‘(C) TERMINATION OF DESIGNATION.—The
designation of a transition representative
under a memorandum of understanding shall
terminate—
‘‘(i) not later than September 30 of the
year during which the inauguration of the
President-elect as President and the inau-
guration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice
President occurs; or
‘‘(ii) before the date described in clause (i),
upon request of the President-elect or the
Vice-President-elect or, after such inaugura-
tion, upon request of the President or the
Vice President.
‘‘(4) AMENDMENTS.—Any amendment to a
memorandum of understanding entered into
under this subsection shall be agreed to in
writing.
‘‘(5) PRIOR NOTIFICATION OF DEVIATION.—
Each party to a memorandum of under-
standing entered into under this subsection
shall provide written notice, except to the
extent prohibited under another provision of
law, not later than 3 days before taking any
action that deviates from the terms and con-
ditions agreed to in the memorandum of un-
derstanding.
‘‘(6) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘eligible candidate’ has the meaning
given that term in subsection (h)(4).’’.
(b) AGENCY TRANSITIONS.—Section 4 of the
Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C.
102 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) the term ‘nonpublic information’—
‘‘(A) means information from the Federal
Government that a member of a transition
team obtains as part of the employment of
the member that such member knows or rea-
sonably should know has not been made
available to the general public; and
‘‘(B) includes information that a member
of the transition team knows or reasonably
should know—
‘‘(i) is exempt from disclosure under sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, or oth-
erwise protected from disclosure by law; and
‘‘(ii) is not authorized by the appropriate
government agency or officials to be released
to the public; and’’;
(2) in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of sub-
section (e)(3), by inserting ‘‘serving in a ca-
reer position’’ after ‘‘senior representative’’;
(3) by striking subsection (f)(2) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(2) ACTING OFFICERS.—Not later than Sep-
tember 15 of a year during which a Presi-
dential election occurs, and in accordance
with subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5,
United States Code, the head of each agency
shall ensure that a succession plan is in
place for each senior noncareer position in
the agency.’’; and
(4) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Novem-
ber 1’’ and inserting ‘‘October 1’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ETHICS PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each memorandum of
understanding under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an agreement that the eligible can-
didate will implement and enforce an ethics
plan to guide the conduct of the transition
beginning on the date on which the eligible
candidate becomes the President-elect.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—The ethics plan shall in-
clude, at a minimum—
‘‘(i) a description of the ethics require-
ments that will apply to all members of the
transition team, including any specific re-
quirement for transition team members who
will have access to nonpublic or classified in-
formation;
‘‘(ii) a description of how the transition
team will—
‘‘(I) address the role on the transition team
of—
‘‘(aa) lobbyists registered under the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.) and individuals who were former lobby-
ists registered under that Act; and
‘‘(bb) persons registered under the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611
et seq.), foreign nationals, and other foreign
agents;
‘‘(II) prohibit a transition team member
with conflicts of interest similar to those ap-
plicable to Federal employees under section
2635.402(a) and section 2635.502(a) of title 5,
Code of Federal Regulations, related to cur-
rent or former employment, affiliations, cli-
ents, or investments, from working on par-
ticular matters involving specific parties
that affect the interests of such member; and
‘‘(III) address how the covered eligible can-
didate will address his or her own conflicts of
interest during a Presidential term if the
covered eligible candidate becomes the
President-elect;
‘‘(iii) a Code of Ethical Conduct, which
each member of the transition team will sign
and be subject to, that reflects the content
of the ethics plans under this paragraph and
at a minimum requires transition team
members to—
‘‘(I) seek authorization from transition
team leaders or their designees before seek-
ing, on behalf of the transition, access to any
nonpublic information;
‘‘(II) keep confidential any nonpublic infor-
mation provided in the course of the duties
of the member with the transition and exclu-
sively use such information for the purposes
of the transition; and
‘‘(III) not use any nonpublic information
provided in the course of transition duties,
in any manner, for personal or private gain
for the member or any other party at any
time during or after the transition; and
‘‘(iv) a description of how the transition
team will enforce the Code of Ethical Con-
duct, including the names of the members of
the transition team responsible for enforce-
ment, oversight, and compliance.
‘‘(C) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—The transition
team shall make the ethics plan described in
this paragraph publicly available on the
internet website of the General Services Ad-
ministration the earlier of—
‘‘(i) the day on which the memorandum of
understanding is completed; or
‘‘(ii) October 1.’’.
f
REBUILDING SMALL BUSINESSES
AFTER DISASTERS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 54, S. 862.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 862) to repeal the sunset for col-
lateral requirements for Small Business Ad-
ministration disaster loans.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill which
had been reported from the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Kennedy amendment
at the desk be agreed to, and the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 936), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rebuilding
Small Businesses After Disasters Act’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.051 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5321
August 1, 2019
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF SUNSET FOR COLLATERAL
REQUIREMENTS FOR SBA DISASTER
LOANS.
Section 2102(b) of the RISE After Disaster
Act of 2015 (15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended, in
the matter preceding paragraph (1), by strik-
ing ‘‘4 years’’ and inserting ‘‘7 years’’.
SEC. 3. GAO REPORT ON DEFAULT RATES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall submit to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship of the Senate and the Committee
on Small Business of the House of Represent-
atives a report comparing—
(1) the performance, including the default
rate, of loans made under section 7(b)(1) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(1))
during the period—
(A) beginning on January 1, 2000; and
(B) ending on the date on which the Small
Business Administration began making loans
in accordance with the amendment made by
section 2102(a) of the RISE After Disaster
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–88; 129 Stat. 690);
and
(2) the performance, including the default
rate, of loans made under 7(b)(1) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(1)) in accord-
ance with the amendment made by section
2102(a) of the RISE After Disaster Act of 2015
(Public Law 114–88; 129 Stat. 690).
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill having been
read the third time, the question is,
Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 862), as amended, was
passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Kennedy title amend-
ment be agreed to, and that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 937) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To amend the title)
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘A bill to
extend the sunset for collateral requirements
for Small Business Administration disaster
loans.’’.
f
HOUSE BILLS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of the following bills, en bloc:
H.R. 2336, H.R. 2938, H.R. 3304, and H.R.
3311.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bills, en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills, en
bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2336) to amend title 11, United
States Code, with respect to the definition of
‘‘family farmer’’.
A bill (H.R. 2938) to exempt from the cal-
culation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense.
A bill (H.R. 3304) to exempt for an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces and mem-
bers of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or
to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days.
A bill (H.R. 3311) to amend chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for other
purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bills, en bloc, be con-
sidered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bills were ordered to a third
reading and were read the third time,
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bills, en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is,
Shall the bills pass, en bloc?
The bills (H.R. 2336, H.R. 2938, H.R.
3304, H.R. 3311) were passed, en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—S. 1340
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that at a time
to be determined by the majority lead-
er in consultation with the Democratic
leader, no later than Thursday, Sep-
tember 26, the Senate proceed to the
consideration of Calendar No. 102, S.
1340; I further ask that the Lee amend-
ment No. 935 be the only amendment in
order; that there be 2 hours of debate
equally divided between the two lead-
ers or their designees followed by a
vote on adoption of the Lee amend-
ment with a 60-vote affirmative thresh-
old for adoption; finally, following dis-
position of the Lee amendment, the
committee substitute as amended, if
amended, be agreed to; the bill, as
amended, be read a third time; and the
Senate vote on passage of the bill, as
amended, with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, AUGUST 2,
2019, THROUGH MONDAY, SEP-
TEMBER 9, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn, to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times, and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Friday, Au-
gust 2, at 1 p.m.; Tuesday, August 6, at
9 a.m.; Friday, August 9, at 9 a.m.;
Tuesday, August 13, at 12:30 p.m.; Fri-
day, August 16, at 3 p.m.; Tuesday, Au-
gust 20, at 9 a.m.; Friday, August 23, at
9:15 a.m.; Tuesday, August 27, at 10
a.m.; Friday, August 30, at 5 p.m.;
Tuesday, September 3, at 1 p.m.; and
Friday, September 6, at 8:30 a.m.
I further ask unanimous consent that
when the Senate adjourns on Friday,
September 6, it next convene on Mon-
day, September 9; and that following
the prayer and pledge, the morning
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of
proceedings be approved to date, the
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day, morning
business be closed, and the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the Craft nomination;
finally, notwithstanding the provisions
of rule XXII, the cloture motions filed
during today’s session ripen at 5:30
p.m., Monday, September 9.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL TOMORROW
AT 1 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned, under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 3:15 p.m., adjourned until Friday,
August 2, 2019, at 1 p.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
DAVID CAREY WOLL, JR., OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DE-
VELOPMENT, VICE NEAL J. RACKLEFF.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NATALIE E. BROWN, OF NEBRASKA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUN-
SELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA.
ROBERT S. GILCHRIST, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA.
STEVEN CHRISTOPHER KOUTSIS, OF MASSACHUSETTS,
A CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE,
CLASS OF MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CHAD.
ALINA L. ROMANOWSKI, OF ILLINOIS, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE STATE OF KU-
WAIT.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
JOVITA CARRANZA, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION,
VICE LINDA E. MCMAHON.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate August 1, 2019:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.052 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5322 August 1, 2019
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
MICHAEL FAULKENDER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
THE JUDICIARY
M. MILLER BAKER, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE.
TIMOTHY M. REIF, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTER-
NATIONAL TRADE.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
KATHE HICKS ALBRECHT, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024.
KEEGAN F. CALLANAN, OF VERMONT, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024.
DAVID ARMAND DEKEYSER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
KIM R. HOLMES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
PHYLLIS KAMINSKY, OF ARIZONA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
JEAN M. YARBROUGH, OF MAINE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
MARK SCHULTZ, OF NEBRASKA, TO BE COMMISSIONER
OF THE REHABILITATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
MARY ANNE CARTER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE CHAIR-
PERSON OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
THOMAS MCCAFFERY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
LISA M. SCHENCK, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION RE-
VIEW.
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
COURTNEY DUNBAR JONES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KENNETH S. GEORGE, OF TEXAS, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ORIENTAL REPUB-
LIC OF URUGUAY.
W. PATRICK MURPHY, OF VERMONT, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
RON A. BLOOM, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A GOVERNOR OF
THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING DECEMBER 8, 2020.
ROMAN MARTINEZ IV, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A GOVERNOR
OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A TERM
EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2024.
THE JUDICIARY
JAMES A. CROWELL IV, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
JASON PARK, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO BE
AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIFTEEN
YEARS.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
MICHAEL ERIC WOOTEN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR FOR FEDERAL PROCUREMENT POLICY.
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
EMIN TORO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN
YEARS.
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION
RANDOLPH J. STAYIN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COM-
MISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JUNE 16, 2026 .
AMY KARPEL, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JUNE 16, 2023.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
WILLIAM B. KILBRIDE, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE TENNESSEE
VALLEY AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 18, 2023.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
JOHN MCLEOD BARGER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A GOV-
ERNOR OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2021.
INTER–AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ELIOT PEDROSA, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED STATES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE INTER–AMERICAN DEVEL-
OPMENT BANK FOR A TERM OF THREE YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WILMER OCASIO, OF PUERTO RICO, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF PUERTO RICO
FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
MARK LEE GREENBLATT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE IN-
SPECTOR GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
THE JUDICIARY
RAINEY R. BRANDT, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIF-
TEEN YEARS.
SHANA FROST MATINI, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIF-
TEEN YEARS.
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION
ANN C. FISHER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO BE
A COMMISSIONER OF THE POSTAL REGULATORY COM-
MISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 14, 2024.
ASHLEY JAY ELIZABETH POLING, OF NORTH CARO-
LINA, TO BE A COMMISSIONER OF THE POSTAL REGU-
LATORY COMMISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING NOVEMBER
22, 2024.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RICHARD K. BELL, OF PENNSYLVANIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUN-
SELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE.
JONATHAN R. COHEN, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT.
CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED MEXI-
CAN STATES.
RICHARD B. NORLAND, OF IOWA, A CAREER MEMBER OF
THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO LIBYA.
PHILIP S. GOLDBERG, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
A CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE,
CLASS OF CAREER AMBASSADOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF CO-
LOMBIA.
JESSICA E. LAPENN, OF NEW YORK, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE AFRICAN UNION, WITH THE
RANK AND STATUS OF AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY
AND PLENIPOTENTIARY.
MARY BETH LEONARD, OF MASSACHUSETTS, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
SHARON FAST GUSTAFSON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GEN-
ERAL COUNSEL OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPOR-
TUNITY COMMISSION FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
CHARLOTTE A. BURROWS, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OP-
PORTUNITY COMMISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1,
2023.
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 8033:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. MICHAEL M. GILDAY
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
ROBERT J. GREY, JR., OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2020.
ABIGAIL L. KUZMA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2019.
ABIGAIL L. KUZMA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2022.
JOHN G. LEVI, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES COR-
PORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2020.
JOHN G. MALCOLM, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JULY 13, 2020.
FRANK X. NEUNER, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERV-
ICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2019.
FRANK X. NEUNER, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERV-
ICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2022.
GLORIA VALENCIA–WEBER, OF NEW MEXICO, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL
SERVICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13,
2020.
JULIE REISKIN, OF COLORADO, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2019.
MATTHEW KEENAN, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2020.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
RUSSELL A. BERMAN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES
FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
WILLIAM ENGLISH, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HU-
MANITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024 .
JOHN FONTE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
MARJORIE FISHER FURMAN, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
CLAIRE GRIFFIN, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
JOYCE MALCOLM, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
ADAIR MARGO, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
MATTHEW ROSE, OF IOWA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024.
WILLIAM SCHNEIDER, JR., OF COLORADO, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
NOEL VALIS, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
MICHAEL J.K. KRATSIOS, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
AN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
JENNIFER L. HOMENDY, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2024.
ROBERT L. SUMWALT III, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFE-
TY BOARD FOR A TERM OF THREE YEARS.
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on August
1, 2019 withdrawing from further Sen-
ate consideration the following nomi-
nation:
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF IDRIS M. DIAZ,
WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON APRIL 10, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A01AU6.002 S01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
D944
Thursday, August 1, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed H.R. 3877, Bipartisan Budget Act.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5279–S5322
Measures Introduced: Thirty-one bills and three
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2412–2442, and S. Res. 303–305. Pages S5311–12
Measures Reported:
S. 2302, to amend title 23, United States Code,
to authorize funds for Federal-aid highways and
highway safety construction programs, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute. Page S5310
Measures Passed:
Bipartisan Budget Act: By 67 yeas to 28 nays
(Vote No. 262), Senate passed H.R. 3877, to amend
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985, to establish a congressional budget for
fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily suspend
the debt limit, after taking action on the following
motion and amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S5281–89
Rejected:
By 23 yeas to 70 nays (Vote No. 260), Paul
Amendment No. 932, in the nature of a substitute.
(Pursuant to the order of Tuesday, July 30, 2019,
the amendment having failed to achieve 60 affirma-
tive votes, was not agreed to.) Pages S5287–88
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 67 yeas to 27 nays (Vote No. 261), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the bill. Pages S5281–88
National Workforce Development Month: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 304, designating September 2019
as ‘‘National Workforce Development Month’’.
Page S5318
National Estuaries Week: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 305, designating the week of September 14
through September 21, 2019, as ‘‘National Estuaries
Week’’. Page S5318
Presidential Transition Enhancement Act: Sen-
ate passed S. 394, to amend the Presidential Transi-
tion Act of 1963 to improve the orderly transfer of
the executive power during Presidential transitions,
after agreeing to the committee amendments.
Pages S5318–20
Rebuilding Small Businesses After Disasters
Act: Senate passed S. 862, to extend the sunset for
collateral requirements for Small Business Adminis-
tration disaster loans, after agreeing to the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S5320–21
McConnell (for Kennedy) Amendment No. 936,
in the nature of a substitute. Pages S5320–21
McConnell (for Kennedy) Amendment No. 937,
to amend the title. Page S5321
Family Farmer Relief Act: Senate passed H.R.
2336, to amend title 11, United States Code, with
respect to the definition of ‘‘family farmer’’.
Page S5321
HAVEN Act: Senate passed H.R. 2938, to ex-
empt from the calculation of monthly income certain
benefits paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense. Page S5321
National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Ex-
tension Act: Senate passed H.R. 3304, to exempt for
an additional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under chapter
7, qualifying members of reserve components of the
Armed Forces and members of the National Guard
who, after September 11, 2001, are called to active
duty or to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days. Page S5321
Small Business Reorganization Act: Senate
passed H.R. 3311, to amend chapter 11 of title 11,
United States Code, to address reorganization of
small businesses. Page S5321
Authority for Committees—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent agreement was reached providing that,
notwithstanding the adjournment of the Senate,
Committees be authorized to report legislative and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D945
August 1, 2019
executive matters on Friday, August 16, 2019, from
1:00 p.m. until 3:00 p.m. Page S5318
Signing Authority—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Majority Leader, and Senator Cornyn, be authorized
to sign duly enrolled bills or joint resolutions on
Thursday, August 1, 2019 and Friday, August 2,
2019. Page S5318
Authorizing Leadership to Make Appoint-
ments—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agree-
ment was reached providing that, notwithstanding
the upcoming adjournment of the Senate, the Presi-
dent of the Senate, the President Pro Tempore, and
the Majority and Minority Leaders be authorized to
make appointments to commissions, committees,
boards, conferences, or interparliamentary conferences
authorized by law, by concurrent action of the two
Houses, or by order of the Senate. Page S5318
Ebola Eradication Act—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent-time agreement was reached providing
that at a time to be determined by the Majority
Leader, in consultation with the Democratic Leader,
no later than Thursday, September 26, 2019, Senate
begin consideration of S. 1340, to authorize activi-
ties to combat the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo; that Lee Amendment No.
935, be the only amendment in order, that there be
two hours of debate equally divided between the two
Leaders, or their designees, followed by a vote on
adoption of Lee Amendment No. 935 with a 60-vote
affirmative threshold for adoption; and that fol-
lowing disposition of Lee Amendment No. 935, the
committee substitute, as amended, if amended, be
agreed to, and Senate vote on passage of the bill, as
amended, with no intervening action or debate.
Page S5321
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Friday, August 2, 2019, at 1
p.m.; Tuesday, August 6, 2019, at 9 a.m.; Friday,
August 9, 2019, at 9 a.m.; Tuesday, August 13,
2019, at 12:30 p.m.; Friday, August 16, 2019, at 3
p.m.; Tuesday, August 20, 2019, at 9 a.m.; Friday,
August 23, 2019, at 9:15 a.m.; Tuesday, August 27,
2019, at 10 a.m.; Friday, August 30, 2019, at 5
p.m.; Tuesday, September 3, 2019, at 1 p.m.; Fri-
day, September 6, 2019, at 8:30 a.m.; and that when
the Senate adjourns on Friday, September 6, 2019,
it next convene at 3 p.m., on Monday, September 9,
2019. Page S5321
Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that the previous
order of Wednesday, July 31, 2019, with respect to
district judges be modified to allow for confirmation
votes notwithstanding Rule XXII. Page S5295
Craft Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Ken-
tucky, to be Representative of the United States of
America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of
the United Nations during her tenure of service as
Representative of the United States of America to
the United Nations, Department of State. Page S5298
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, August 1, 2019, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Sep-
tember 9, 2019. Pages S5298–99
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5298
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5298
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senate resume consideration of the nomi-
nation at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday, Sep-
tember 9, 2019; and that notwithstanding the provi-
sions of Rule XXII, the cloture motions filed during
the session of Thursday, August 1, 2019 ripen at
5:30 p.m. on Monday, September 9, 2019.
Page S5321
Darling Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Elizabeth Darling, of
Texas, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and
Families, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices. Page S5299
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
Representative of the United States of America to
the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United
Nations during her tenure of service as Representa-
tive of the United States of America to the United
Nations, Department of State. Page S5299
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5299
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5299
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D946 August 1, 2019
Akard Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Stephen Akard, of Indi-
ana, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions,
with the rank of Ambassador, Department of State.
Page S5299
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to
be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families,
Department of Health and Human Services.
Page S5299
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5299
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5299
Cabaniss Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Dale Cabaniss, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel
Management. Page S5299
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to
be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with
the rank of Ambassador, Department of State.
Page S5299
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5299
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5299
Byrne Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of James Byrne, of Vir-
ginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Page S5299
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to
be Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
Page S5299
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5299
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5299
Bowman Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Michelle Bowman, of
Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System. Pages S5299–S5300
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Pages S5299–S5300
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5299
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5299
Feddo Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Thomas Peter Feddo, of
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
for Investment Security. Page S5300
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Michelle Bowman, of Kansas,
to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System. Page S5300
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5300
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5300
Nordquist Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Jennifer D.
Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United States Execu-
tive Director of the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development. Page S5300
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Thomas Peter Feddo, of Vir-
ginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for
Investment Security. Page S5300
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5300
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5300
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D947
August 1, 2019
Richard K. Bell, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Cote d’Ivoire.
Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United States Ex-
ecutive Director of the Inter-American Development
Bank for a term of three years.
Russell A. Berman, of California, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2020.
William English, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Member of the National Council on the Hu-
manities for a term expiring January 26, 2024.
John Fonte, of Virginia, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Humanities for a term ex-
piring January 26, 2020.
Marjorie Fisher Furman, of Michigan, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2022.
Claire Griffin, of Washington, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022.
Joyce Malcolm, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2020.
Adair Margo, of Texas, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Humanities for a term ex-
piring January 26, 2022.
Matthew Rose, of Iowa, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Humanities for a term ex-
piring January 26, 2024.
William Schneider, Jr., of Colorado, to be a Mem-
ber of the National Council on the Humanities for
a term expiring January 26, 2020.
Noel Valis, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Humanities for a term ex-
piring January 26, 2020.
Jennifer L. Homendy, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the National Transportation Safety Board for a
term expiring December 31, 2024.
Thomas McCaffery, of California, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense.
Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of the Treasury.
Randolph J. Stayin, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the United States International Trade Commission
for a term expiring June 16, 2026.
Kenneth S. George, of Texas, to be Ambassador to
the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, to be Ambas-
sador to the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Kathe Hicks Albrecht, of California, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2024.
Keegan F. Callanan, of Vermont, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2024.
David Armand DeKeyser, of Alabama, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2020.
Robert J. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Cor-
poration for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Kim R. Holmes, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022.
Phyllis Kaminsky, of Arizona, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2020.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2022.
John G. Levi, of Illinois, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation
for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
John G. Malcolm, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal
Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13,
2020.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services
Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services
Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022.
Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Serv-
ices Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Jean M. Yarbrough, of Maine, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022.
Mary Anne Carter, of Tennessee, to be Chair-
person of the National Endowment for the Arts for
a term of four years.
Sharon Fast Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General
Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission for a term of four years.
Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for a term expir-
ing December 8, 2020.
Roman Martinez IV, of Florida, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for a term expir-
ing December 8, 2024.
Mark Lee Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector
General, Department of the Interior.
Lisa M. Schenck, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Military Commission Review.
M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D948 August 1, 2019
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Judge of the United States Court of Inter-
national Trade.
James A. Crowell IV, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen
years.
Jason Park, of the District of Columbia, to be an
Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District
of Columbia for the term of fifteen years.
Mark Schultz, of Nebraska, to be Commissioner of
the Rehabilitation Services Administration, Depart-
ment of Education.
Courtney Dunbar Jones, of Virginia, to be a Judge
of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen
years.
Emin Toro, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the
United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years.
Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Adminis-
trator for Federal Procurement Policy.
William B. Kilbride, of Tennessee, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley
Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2023.
Julie Reiskin, of Colorado, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation
for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
John McLeod Barger, of California, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service for a term
expiring December 8, 2021.
Rainey R. Brandt, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years.
Shana Frost Matini, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen
years.
Christopher Landau, of Maryland, to be Ambas-
sador to the United Mexican States.
Michael J.K. Kratsios, of South Carolina, to be an
Associate Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy.
Richard B. Norland, of Iowa, to be Ambassador to
Libya.
Jonathan R. Cohen, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Ann C. Fisher, of the District of Columbia, to be
a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commis-
sion for a term expiring October 14, 2024.
Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of Columbia,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Colombia.
Jessica E. Lapenn, of New York, to be Representa-
tive of the United States of America to the African
Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador.
Wilmer Ocasio, of Puerto Rico, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Puerto Rico for the
term of four years.
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of
the United States International Trade Commission
for a term expiring June 16, 2023.
Ashley Jay Elizabeth Poling, of North Carolina, to
be a Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Com-
mission for a term expiring November 22, 2024.
Mary Beth Leonard, of Massachusetts, to be Am-
bassador to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Matthew Keenan, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be
Chairman of the National Transportation Safety
Board for a term of three years.
Charlotte A. Burrows, of the District of Columbia,
to be a Member of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2023.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Pages S5295–98, S5300
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
David Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
Natalie E. Brown, of Nebraska, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Uganda.
Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Lithuania.
Steven Christopher Koutsis, of Massachusetts, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Chad.
Alina L. Romanowski, of Illinois, to be Ambas-
sador to the State of Kuwait.
Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be Administrator of
the Small Business Administration. Page S5321
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
A routine list in the Foreign Service. Page S5322
Messages from the House: Page S5310
Executive Communications: Page S5310
Petitions and Memorials: Page S5310
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S5310
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5312–15
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S5315
Additional Statements: Pages S5307–10
Amendments Submitted: Pages S5317–18
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5318
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—262) Pages S5288–89
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 3:15 p.m., until 1 p.m. on Friday, Au-
gust 2, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D949
August 1, 2019
of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S5321.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Armed Services: On Wednesday, July 31,
2019, Committee ordered favorably reported the
nomination of General John E. Hyten, USAF, for re-
appointment to the grade of general and to be Vice
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nomination of Vice Admiral Mi-
chael M. Gilday, USN, to be Admiral and Chief of
Naval Operations, Department of Defense.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported S. 1494, to amend the William Wil-
berforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2008 to protect alien minors and to
amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to end
abuse of the asylum system and establish refugee ap-
plication and processing centers outside the United
States, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute.
h
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 11 a.m. on Friday, August
2, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D935)
S. 504, to amend title 36, United States Code, to
authorize The American Legion to determine the re-
quirements for membership in The American Le-
gion. Signed on July 30, 2019. (Public Law 116–35)
H.R. 2196, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to reduce the credit hour requirement for the
Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship program of
the Department of Veterans Affairs. Signed on July
31, 2019. (Public Law 116–36)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
AUGUST 2, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D950 August 1, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
1 p.m., Friday, August 2
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11 a.m., Friday, August 2
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 11 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D01AU9.REC D01AUPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
