Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3479
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2019 No. 76
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. MCGOVERN).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 8, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMES P.
MCGOVERN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
AMERICA IS IN A
CONSTITUTIONAL CRISIS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today because there are some
things that I must call to the attention
of the Congress.
Some news sources have indicated
that somebody has said that we are in
a crisis, a constitutional crisis. Mr.
Speaker, I am that somebody. We are
in a constitutional crisis.
Mr. Speaker, we currently have the
executive branch and the legislative
branch in a standoff, a standoff because
the President of the United States of
America has refused to cooperate and
has encouraged others to do so, refus-
ing to allow subpoenas to be properly
honored—subpoenas properly issued, I
might add. He has indicated that he, as
President, will continue to do so in his
words and his deeds.
So, Mr. Speaker, I still rise, and I do
so because there is a crisis. But I also
do so because this obstruction by the
President continues to this day.
As I speak currently, the President is
engaged in obstruction. This policy
that he is implementing of not allow-
ing persons to testify if he can prevent
them from doing so, thwarting the in-
vestigation that is taking place—law-
ful investigations, I might add—is a
form of obstruction in and of itself. He
continues to obstruct.
Mr. Speaker, I rise, also, because
many have said that the soul of the
country is at stake. Mr. Speaker, I
would amend this. I would agree that
the soul of the country is at risk, but
I would also say that the soul of the
Congress is at risk.
The Congress of the United States of
America must do its job, Mr. Speaker,
the Congress of the United States of
America, many of whom, as Members,
have indicated that the President has
committed impeachable acts but then
go on to say that we should not im-
peach him.
Mr. Speaker, we cannot say that a
President has committed impeachable
offenses and then not impeach. To do
so would legitimize the President’s ac-
tions. This Congress cannot allow this
President to continue to do what he is
doing, say that he ought to be im-
peached, and then step back from im-
peachment. That would say to the
President that he can go out now and
claim legitimacy.
He can say that, if I were a person
guilty of impeachable offenses, the
Congress would have impeached me. He
will say that one party had enough
votes to do it without the assistance of
the other party. He will say to the
country, ‘‘I have done nothing wrong,’’
and that would be wrong, in toto, for
him to say such a thing because he has
done many things that are wrong.
We as a Congress have a duty to
bring before the body the President of
the United States for impeachment
purposes. This is the only place where
such an action can take place, and the
longer we delay, the greater the oppor-
tunity for the President to obfuscate,
to confuse the country, to give people
the impression that it is just a witch
hunt.
It is not a witch hunt. It is the proper
thing that we should do, pursuant to
Article II, Section 4 of the Constitution
of the United States of America; and
our failure to do so will only allow us
to give the President reason to go for-
ward and say that he has been vindi-
cated when the truth is he has com-
mitted impeachable acts, starting with
the firing of Mr. Comey and continuing
through his efforts to deny the House
of Representatives, by and through its
lawful investigative authorities, to
look into and bring witnesses before in-
vestigative bodies.
Mr. Speaker, this is a sad day in the
history of our country. It is a red letter
day, but there is hope, and I assure you
that this President will not—will not—
go unchecked. There will be Articles of
Impeachment brought before this body.
I assure you there will be Articles of
Impeachment.
I pray that we can get this done
through the proper committees, but if
nobody else does it, each Member of
Congress is accorded the authority to
come to the floor, the ability, and to
bring Articles of Impeachment.
I don’t want to do it. This is not
something that I came to Congress to
do. But I love my country, and I will
not watch and allow such a thing to
happen before this country without my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.000 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3480 May 8, 2019
taking appropriate action. I will bring
Articles of Impeachment if nobody else
does.
And finally, I will say more about
this this evening. I should have 30 min-
utes of time. I will speak to a greater
extent on the issue that I have called
to Members’ attention now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
ENRIQUE PADRON OP-ED REGARD-
ING CUBAN SOCIALISM DANGERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, socialist Democrats advocate dic-
tatorial and guaranteed-to-fail social-
ism over liberty and the free enterprise
economic system that has created
America’s prosperity.
Merriam-Webster dictionary defines
‘‘evil’’ as ‘‘morally reprehensible,’’
‘‘causing harm,’’ or ‘‘pernicious.’’ By
that definition, socialism is evil, and
anyone in America who supports so-
cialism supports evil.
Enrique Padron recently published
an editorial in the New York Post enti-
tled: ‘‘Hey, Democrats: Here’s the price
I paid for your Socialist dream.’’ It is
such a revealing test of the evils of so-
cialism that today I read it in part into
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
‘‘American Democrats are pining
ever more loudly for socialism these
days, for ‘free’ education, ‘free’ health
care and much else.
‘‘Let me tell you about socialism as I
lived it under the Fidel Castro regime.
‘‘The house where I was born in Com-
munist Cuba had a dirt floor, a bath-
room hole in the ground, which we
shared with six other families, and a
zinc roof that left us unbearably hot in
the summer and shivering in the win-
ter.
‘‘We had no running water, no refrig-
erator and no door in the back of the
house. We cooked with charcoal. My
mother raised four boys by herself in
that ‘house,’ working 12 hours a day to
earn 160 Cuban pesos, or approximately
$6, a month.
‘‘Why didn’t we fix it?
‘‘In addition to the meager income,
we had no access to hardware stores to
buy nails or cement to fix our humble
house. In fact, the local member of the
national assembly was the only person
authorized to approve whether we
could buy a bag of cement or a roll of
roof paper—if they were available.
‘‘We couldn’t buy these simple mate-
rials without that precious piece of
paper.
‘‘Can you imagine going to your con-
gressional Representative to ask for
permission to buy a box of nails? Or
roof tiles? Or roof paper? It seems un-
thinkable in the United States. But in
Cuba, where we lacked the necessities
of life, we had to. And when we com-
plained, the authorities scolded us to
be grateful for free education and free
healthcare.
‘‘In Cuba, it is illegal to speak
against the government or complain
about living conditions. We were pro-
hibited from speaking with local
media, but the journalists were state
employees and wouldn’t publish our
stories anyway. We couldn’t express
our unmet needs and were reminded
that we shouldn’t complain anyway,
because we were promised—you
guessed it—free education and free
healthcare.
‘‘In Cuba, doctors make the equiva-
lent of 25 cents an hour and teachers 21
cents an hour. Pharmacists earn eight
cents an hour.
‘‘In Cuba, there is no right to free
speech and virtually no independent
media. There are no free, fair,
multiparty elections. In fact, there is
just one political party, Communist,
and only members of the Communist
Party may run as candidates for any
office. But we were told we couldn’t ob-
ject to this system, lest we lose our
free education and free healthcare. . . .
‘‘In Cuba, if you dare to yell some-
thing true, like ‘Fidel and Raul are dic-
tators,’ you could spend many years in
prison. Dictatorship is another price
we had to pay for free education and
free healthcare.
‘‘I desperately needed something
more than the promises of free edu-
cation and free healthcare. I knew that
I needed freedom—freedom to speak
my mind and vote my conscience. It
was worth the risk of being eaten by
sharks than to continue living a life
with no purpose and no freedom.
‘‘On August 16, 1994, I decided to get
into a boat with 20 other Cubans in
search of a future.
‘‘One of my two brothers followed me
to the United States, also in a raft,
nearly dying of thirst and hunger dur-
ing the journey. My other brother is
still awaiting the visa I filed for
him. . . .
‘‘After arriving in the United States,
I worked as an international sales
manager, owned a restaurant, hosted a
radio program and authored two books.
Today, I work for a Member of Con-
gress. None of those opportunities
would have been possible for me in so-
cialist Cuba.
‘‘I wish that one day I might have a
conversation with some of these young
American socialists who have no expe-
rience with actually existing socialism.
They like to think they can have de-
mocracy and a socialist economy. But
everywhere it’s been implemented,
public ownership of the means of pro-
duction has led to political repression.
‘‘Not least in my native Cuba, with
its promises of ‘free’ cradle-to-grave
services.
‘‘I chose so much more than the
promise of ‘free.’ I chose freedom.’’
Mr. Speaker, Enrique Padron has
shared his firsthand experience with
the suffering, depravity, and evils of
socialism in Cuba. Americans should
heed his words.
Free enterprise is about liberty and
freedom. Socialism is about poverty
and slavery through the ruling class.
f
PROTECTING INDIVIDUALS WITH
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to talk about healthcare and to ask
that my colleagues join me in support
of protecting individuals in America
who have preexisting conditions.
We can, and we must do a better job
in reducing costs and improving access
to healthcare in America. Since the Af-
fordable Care Act was signed into law
in 2010, no provision has had a more
significant impact on the health of
Americans than protecting those with
preexisting conditions.
In my district in 2010 in San Joaquin
Valley in California, almost 25 percent
of my constituents had no healthcare
insurance whatsoever, and 17 percent
were uninsured. Today, 9 years later, 10
percent of my constituents do not have
healthcare insurance, and the ability
to provide insurance for those who
were underinsured has much improved.
Before the ACA, insurers could deny
health coverage to many health condi-
tions such as asthma, diabetes, or can-
cer.
How many of our families have pre-
existing conditions in those areas?
I submit most of us do. These denials
often force families into decisions be-
tween paying for a loved one’s treat-
ment or keeping the lights on in their
house. No family should be faced with
such a choice.
Protections for preexisting condi-
tions remain one of the popular parts
of the ACA. These protections should
not be weakened due to partisan poli-
tics. Working together in a bipartisan
fashion is the only way we are going to
get something enacted that will work
for all Americans.
We can do better for the American
people, and we should. That is what the
folks in my 16th Congressional District
in the San Joaquin Valley want me to
do. They want me to help improve
their healthcare.
WILDFIRE AWARENESS
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to discuss the importance of wild-
fire awareness. No State knows more
about how important the subject is
than California.
There is no longer a fire season in
California. It suffers from fires, sadly,
year-round resulting from many fac-
tors, including climate change.
Just last year California saw the
deadliest wildfire in its history. The
town of Paradise was decimated with
more than 14,000 homes destroyed, and
85 people lost their lives. God bless
them and their families.
There have been other fires in Santa
Barbara, Mendocino, and the Yosemite
Rim fire right in my own district’s
backyard.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.002 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3481
May 8, 2019
We need to do more. For the first
time in its 110-year history, the Forest
Service says they will now dedicate
more than half their budget to wildfire
suppression efforts, which we have di-
rected as a result of the farm bill last
year.
b 1015
To begin with, this requires better
managing and caring for our forests.
This week, we will vote on an emer-
gency supplemental to help commu-
nities affected by wildfires. I ask my
colleagues to vote with me and pass
this important legislation.
Let’s do the right thing and help our
fellow Americans rebuild their lives
and their communities. At the same
time, let’s be more responsible stew-
ards of our forests.
We know how to do it. Let’s get
started with our States, local govern-
ments, and the private sector.
Future generations deserve better
management of forests throughout our
country. I think we can do it if we
work together.
f
CONGRATULATING BALD EAGLE
AREA HIGH SCHOOL UNIFIED
BOCCE TEAM ON STATE CHAM-
PIONSHIP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the
Bald Eagle Area High School unified
bocce team, which recently brought
home a State championship.
It is only the unified bocce team’s
second season, and they have already
been crowned the best in the State.
The unified bocce team is made up of
four students, four with intellectual
disabilities and four without. This win-
ter sport allows students with and
without disabilities to participate in a
competitive environment that pro-
motes physical activity, sportsman-
ship, and socialization. Teams are
made up of students with intellectual
disabilities, known as athletes, and
regular education students, known as
partners.
I am so proud of my alma mater for
adopting the unified bocce team, which
operates in conjunction with Special
Olympics. In fact, multiple high
schools in the region have unified
bocce teams, including State College
and Bellefonte in Centre County and
Clearfield Area High School in
Clearfield County.
Bocce has become so popular at Bald
Eagle Area that it started the season
with two teams, a blue team and a gold
team. The two met in the regional
championship, with the gold advancing
to states.
The gold team’s eight members in-
clude Chelsea Butterworth, Alyssa
Packer, Nick Zink, Josh Zink, Fay
Shaheen, Emily Gardner, Jordan
Bonsell, and Bridget Esenwine.
Mr. Speaker, Special Olympics Penn-
sylvania also hosted its third annual
Unified Bocce Government Challenge
on Monday in the east rotunda of the
Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harris-
burg. The challenge paired various
local organizational leaders, govern-
ment officials, and legislative leaders
with Special Olympics athletes for a
fun, competitive, and social experience.
I am so proud of our athletes, our
partners, and everyone in the commu-
nity who has supported the unified
bocce team and the inclusion move-
ment.
The team had a hero’s welcome home
from Hershey in March when they won
the State championship. About 100
teachers, parents, and students greeted
the team when they arrived back at
the school, with a fire truck escort
leading the way.
Congratulations to our State
champs, the unified bocce team. Go Ea-
gles!
f
AFTER MUELLER: THE WORK TO
BE DONE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. SCHIFF) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, 45 years
ago this summer, the Watergate scan-
dal, which had preoccupied the Nation
for 2 years, culminated with the res-
ignation of President Richard Nixon
and touched off a period of activism
and reform on Capitol Hill.
In the years that followed, Congress
worked to ensure transparency and
prevent the abuse of executive power,
informed not only by the work of two
special prosecutors but also by the
good investigative work of multiple
House and Senate committees.
The Watergate investigations ex-
posed an array of abuses of power by a
craven President and his associates.
In response to illegal campaign con-
tributions, the Congress enacted the
Federal Election Commission, required
disclosure, and placed limits on how
much candidates could raise and spend.
When Congress discovered that pri-
vate information held by the IRS and
other agencies had been used for polit-
ical purposes, Congress passed the Pri-
vacy Act, restricting government use
of Americans’ private data.
The Watergate era bears more than a
passing resemblance to the tumult of
the last 3 years, and today, as in the
1970s, Congress has a responsibility to
act to fortify our democracy and our
institutions.
Even in redacted form, the Mueller
report has illuminated serious gaps in
laws intended to protect our Nation’s
electoral and political process. The in-
vestigation, moreover, exposed weak-
nesses in the way our government
tracks and responds to foreign influ-
ence efforts.
Like other committees, the House In-
telligence Committee is undertaking a
close review of the report to develop
necessary legislative reforms to pro-
tect our Nation moving forward. But to
fully assess the legislative implica-
tions, it is imperative that Congress,
including our committee, receive the
full, unredacted report, as well as cru-
cial underlying evidence.
The report makes clear that the spe-
cial counsel’s mandate did not extend
to broader foreign influence activities.
The Intelligence Committee, therefore,
is undertaking an investigation and re-
lated oversight work focused on efforts
by Russia and other foreign actors to
influence our political process before,
during, and since the 2016 election.
A core component is to understand
how Russia and other foreign powers
used financial leverage to further their
geopolitical goals and whether and to
what extent financial entanglements
exist and may have been used to influ-
ence or compromise Americans, includ-
ing President Trump, his family, and
associates.
Working with the Financial Services
Committee, the Intelligence Com-
mittee has requested information from
financial institutions, information that
will be vital to fully identify the scope
of this threat, the financial means and
methods that foreign adversaries use,
and the counterintelligence vulnerabil-
ities of U.S. officials and institutions.
The committee’s ongoing investiga-
tion and oversight, along with other
committee investigations, will inform
a wide range of legislation and appro-
priations decisions, including to:
Require financial transparency so
that politicians can never again hide
significant financial vulnerabilities
from the American people;
Strengthen legal authorities and ca-
pabilities for our intelligence and law
enforcement agencies to better track
illicit financial flows;
Deter Presidential abuses of power by
instituting constraints on the corrupt
misuse of the Presidency, such as legis-
lation I have introduced to rein in the
abuse of the pardon power;
Toughen foreign agent registration
to prohibit tactics used by our foreign
adversaries’ unofficial surrogates;
Ensure that campaign finance laws
prohibit a campaign from taking help
from foreign actors and require report-
ing to law enforcement of nefarious
outreach from foreign powers;
Regulate Presidential transitions and
inaugurations to prevent foreign pow-
ers from exercising undue influence;
Counter covert active measures cam-
paigns by enhancing cybersecurity to
combat hacking; and,
Reform security clearance processes
to help prevent compromised individ-
uals from receiving access to our Na-
tion’s most sensitive secrets.
For nearly 250 years, the durability
of our Republic has rested on our ca-
pacity to adapt to changing times and
circumstances and to learn from our
mistakes. In this effort, Congress has
played the leading role and must do so
here as well.
We are prepared to do the difficult
work required, but we need all the in-
formation we seek to ensure that we
get it right.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.004 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3482 May 8, 2019
Mr. Speaker, 45 years ago this summer, the
Watergate scandal, which had preoccupied
the nation for two years, culminated with the
resignation of President Richard Nixon and
touched off a period of activism and reform on
Capitol Hill.
In the years that followed, Congress worked
to ensure transparency and prevent the abuse
of executive power—informed not only by the
work of two special prosecutors, but also by
the good investigative work of multiple House
and Senate committees.
The Watergate investigations exposed an
array of abuses of power by a craven Presi-
dent and his associates, including campaign fi-
nance violations, and the use of executive
branch agencies to harass or undermine do-
mestic political opponents. Consequently, an
informed Congress enacted landmark legisla-
tion to curb such abuses and to close those
loopholes.
In response to illegal corporate campaign
contributions, Congress created the Federal
Elections Commission, required disclosure,
and placed limits on how much candidates
could raise and spend. When Congress dis-
covered that private information held by the
IRS and other agencies had been used for po-
litical purposes, Congress passed the Privacy
Act, restricting government use of Americans’
private data.
The Watergate era bears more than a pass-
ing resemblance to the tumult of the past
three years, and today, as in the 1970s, Con-
gress has a responsibility to act to fortify our
democracy and our institutions—in the present
circumstance to counter pernicious foreign ef-
forts to influence the U.S. political process. At
the same time, and given the narrowness of
the Special Counsel’s mandate, it is also in-
cumbent on Congress to continue to conduct
rigorous oversight, without obstruction by the
President, and pursue unexamined investiga-
tive threads to complete the fact finding work
necessary to develop new laws and refine ex-
isting ones.
Even in redacted form, the Mueller report
has illuminated serious gaps in laws intended
to protect our nation’s electoral and political
process. The investigation, moreover, exposed
weaknesses in the way our government tracks
and responds to foreign influence efforts. Like
other Committees, the House Intelligence
Committee is undertaking a close review of
the report to develop necessary legislative re-
forms to protect our nation moving forward.
But, to fully assess the legislative implications
and design laws that effectively counter the
sophisticated threats we face, it is imperative
that Congress—including our Committee—re-
ceive the full, unredacted report, as well as
crucial underlying evidence.
The report also makes clear that the Special
Counsel’s mandate did not extend to broader
foreign influence activities. The Intelligence
Committee, therefore, is undertaking an inves-
tigation, and related oversight work, focused
on efforts by Russia and other foreign actors
to influence our political process before, dur-
ing, and since the 2016 election. A core com-
ponent is to understand how Russia and other
foreign powers use financial levers to further
their geopolitical goals, and whether, and to
what extent, financial entanglements exist and
may have been used to influence or com-
promise Americans, including President
Trump, his family, and associates.
Working with the Financial Services Com-
mittee, the Intelligence Committee has re-
quested information from financial institu-
tions—information that will be vital to fully
identify the scope of this threat, the financial
means and methods foreign adversaries use,
and the counterintelligence vulnerabilities of
U.S. officials and institutions. A comprehen-
sive examination of this information is essen-
tial to understand the complete threat land-
scape and devise effective legislative
changes, policy reforms, and appropriations
priorities.
The Committee’s ongoing investigation and
oversight—alongside other committees’ inves-
tigations—will inform a wide-range of legisla-
tion and appropriations decisions, including to:
Require financial transparency so that politi-
cians can never again hide significant financial
vulnerabilities from the American people; so
that the American people are fully aware of
any conflicts of interest that arise from finan-
cial entanglements of individuals responsible
for our foreign policy; and so that foreign pow-
ers cannot use American corporations to se-
cretly funnel donations or engage in money
laundering;
Strengthen legal authorities and capabilities
for our intelligence and law enforcement agen-
cies to better track illicit financial flows, includ-
ing through shell companies, real estate and
other means; to better identify counterintel-
ligence risks; and to expose interference by
foreign actors;
Deter presidential abuses of power, by insti-
tuting constraints on the corrupt misuse of the
presidency, such as legislation I’ve introduced
to rein in the abuse of the pardon power;
Toughen foreign agent registration to pro-
hibit tactics used by our adversaries’ unofficial
surrogates, close gaps in the Foreign Agents
Registration Act, and ensure that law enforce-
ment has the resources to investigate and
prosecute bad actors;
Ensure that campaign finance laws prohibit
a campaign from taking help from foreign ac-
tors and require reporting to law enforcement
of nefarious outreach from foreign powers;
Regulate presidential transitions and inau-
gurations to prevent foreign powers from exer-
cising undue influence, including by contrib-
uting criminal or other proceeds to inaugura-
tion committees, and by requiring that presi-
dential transitions coordinate exchanges with
foreign leaders through the Department of
State;
Counter covert ‘‘active measures’’ cam-
paigns by enhancing cybersecurity to combat
hacking and taking steps to prevent social
media companies from serving as vectors for
foreign propaganda and disinformation; and
Reform the security clearances process to
help prevent compromised individuals from re-
ceiving access to our nation’s most sensitive
secrets.
For nearly two hundred fifty years, the dura-
bility of our republic has rested on our capac-
ity to adapt to changing times and cir-
cumstances—and to learn from our mistakes.
In this effort, Congress has played the leading
role and must do so here, as well. We are
prepared to do the difficult work required, but
we need all of the information we seek to en-
sure we get it right.
f
RECOGNIZING THE MISSION OF
TUESDAY’S CHILDREN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. BACON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize an organization
that works with children who have had
their lives forever impacted by ter-
rorism or traumatic loss.
Whether it was a child who lost
someone in 9/11 or a child who lost a
parent serving in the military, Tues-
day’s Children has served over 20,000
children since 2001 through trauma and
grief support, youth mentoring, mental
health services, youth leadership devel-
opment, and so much more.
Today is its annual Take Our Chil-
dren to Work Day, a program that of-
fers the opportunity for youth to see,
up close and personal, what it is like to
serve in Congress.
Spending the day with me today are
Spencer Hawn and Christopher Good-
win. They will be joining me at meet-
ings and seeing what it is like behind
the scenes of Capitol Hill.
The work done by Tuesday’s Children
and other organizations in support of
the children of our fallen is critical. As
a Nation, we mourn the loss of lives
lost to terrorists or traumatic events,
but sometimes we forget the children
of those who were tragically lost.
I salute Tuesday’s Children and its
mission to give back to our wonderful
youth.
f
RECOGNIZING JACQUELINE AND
VICTORIA SCHNEIDER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize two outstanding citi-
zens from Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
who are making our community ex-
tremely proud.
Jacqueline and Victoria Schneider,
twin sisters from Holland, Pennsyl-
vania, will be graduating from Neu-
mann University in Delaware County
this weekend.
Throughout their time in college,
Jacqueline and Victoria have been de-
fined by their drive, their dedication,
and their work ethic. Both women are
standout students and athletes, com-
peting on the Neumann Knights soft-
ball team.
Notably, Jacqueline and Victoria are
dual valedictorians for the Neumann
University class of 2019. This is the
first time in the 54-year history of the
school that two students will be receiv-
ing the valedictorian medal, and both
will have the opportunity to address
their peers at graduation.
I congratulate Jacqueline, who is
pursuing a career in law enforcement,
and Victoria, who is pursuing a career
in education, on this outstanding
achievement.
I would also like to recognize their
parents, Gerry and Karen Schneider,
for raising such amazing children and
future leaders of our community.
RECOGNIZING EDUCATOR JOSH ISAACSOHN
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
this week is Teacher Appreciation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.002 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3483
May 8, 2019
Week, and I rise to recognize an educa-
tor in Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
who is teaching his students the value
of good citizenship.
Josh Isaacsohn, a fifth grade teacher
at the Gayman Elementary School in
Doylestown, was recently recognized
by the Central Bucks school board for
his work in the classroom.
For the past 3 years, during each
month of the school year, Josh has sent
notes and drawings from his students
to parents of members of our military
who, in turn, would add them to care
packages.
Mr. Speaker, the men and women in
our military deserve our full support
and gratitude, and I thank Josh for
teaching our community’s kids about
respecting and honoring our true
American heroes.
I would also like to thank Dr. John
Kopicki, superintendent of the Central
Bucks School District, and Glenn
Schloeffel, president of the Bucks
County school board, for all of their
work as well. We thank them for their
leadership in our community.
RECOGNIZING ARTISTS OF YARDLEY
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize a nonprofit organiza-
tion in Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
that was recently named Pennsbury
School District’s 2018–2019 Nonprofit
Partner of the Year.
Artists of Yardley, founded in 2004, is
an organization dedicated to enhancing
creativity in our community through
immersion in the arts.
Located at the Janney House on Pat-
terson Farm in Yardley, Artists of
Yardley boasts over 250 members and
offers classes, workshops, and summer
camps for young people in Bucks Coun-
ty. These opportunities, taught by pro-
fessional art instructors, seek to am-
plify the artistic talents and education
of our community’s youth.
Notably, for the past 3 years, Artists
of Yardley has organized an art com-
petition for Pennsbury School District
students at its headquarters.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud Artists of
Yardley for all of its amazing work
with our community and for inspiring
Bucks County students to pursue their
dreams.
I would also like to particularly
thank Artists of Yardley’s president,
Alison Smith, and vice president, Jim
Bongartz, for all of their work and
service to our community.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 27
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. COX of California) at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Richard B. Kunst, St.
James Catholic Church, Duluth, Min-
nesota, offered the following prayer:
Heavenly Father, we pray blessings
upon the proceedings of this Chamber
this day. May the Members of Congress
and all government officials see their
authority to govern as a sharing of
Your authority, O Heavenly Lord.
And to this end, may the delibera-
tions of today and always support the
right of every citizen of the United
States to have life, liberty, and the
pursuant of happiness. And may our
Nation’s motto, ‘‘In God We Trust,’’ be
more than simple words on our cur-
rency but, rather, the true spirit in
which our great Nation is governed.
We ask that You continue to be
present to this great Nation and to an-
swer our prayers by Your great love.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms.
WEXTON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. WEXTON led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING REVEREND RICHARD
B. KUNST
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from Min-
nesota (Mr. STAUBER) is recognized for
1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize my friend, Father
Richard Kunst, an ordained Catholic
priest for the Diocese of Duluth in
northern Minnesota.
Before ordination, Father Kunst was
a Senate staffer for United States Sen-
ator Rod Grams out of Minnesota. He
earned his B.A. in political science
from Saint Mary’s University in Wi-
nona, Minnesota, and a master of di-
vinity from Saint John’s University in
Collegeville, Minnesota.
Father Kunst has had several parish
assignments in northeastern Min-
nesota, including parishes in Brainerd,
Cromwell, Floodwood, Meadowlands,
and three different assignments in Du-
luth. He was the vocations director for
the Duluth diocese for 12 years and has
been the bishop’s representative for the
diocesan newspaper, The Northern
Cross, since 2005. Father Kunst has also
been the auditor of the diocesan tri-
bunal since 2000.
As a hobby, Father Kunst collects ar-
tifacts associated with the history of
the Vatican and the popes and has one
of the largest private collections in the
world.
I consider Father Kunst to be a great
friend to my wife and me, and I am
grateful that he can be here today to
open this wonderful Chamber up with a
prayer.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 further re-
quests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
AMERICANS DESERVE QUALITY
HEALTHCARE INSURANCE THAT
IS ACCESSIBLE AND AFFORD-
ABLE
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, before the Affordable Care
Act, Americans suffering with cancer,
Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and Parkinson’s
disease could be denied health insur-
ance coverage due to a preexisting con-
dition, a genetic predisposition mil-
lions of Americans are born into. But
insurance companies can’t do that any-
more because it is against the law be-
cause of the Affordable Care Act.
The Trump administration wants to
take away that protection and has
asked a Texas Court of Appeals to fully
repeal the Affordable Care Act and pre-
existing conditions protections.
This week, the House will vote to ap-
prove the Protecting Americans with
Preexisting Conditions Act. In my
western New York community alone,
nearly 300,000 people need the protec-
tion for preexisting conditions that the
Affordable Care Act provides.
Americans deserve quality
healthcare insurance that is accessible
and affordable.
f
RECOGNIZING CAPITOL WORSHIP
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
Capitol Worship, which is a mission
that is near and dear to my heart.
For the past 8 years, Pastor Dan
Cummins and his wife, JoAnn
Cummins, have ministered the Mem-
bers of Congress, staff, and the Capitol
Police. They share the love and Gospel
of Jesus Christ through weekly prayer
services and Bible studies.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.007 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3484 May 8, 2019
Each year, Capitol Worship hosts and
produces the Carols in the Capitol
Christmas Concert and the Wash-
ington, a Man of Prayer, both of which
take place in Statuary Hall. The Wash-
ington, a Man of Prayer event com-
memorates when President George
Washington was sworn in at Federal
Hall in New York City on April 30, 1789.
President Washington, accompanied
by Congress, proceeded to St. Paul’s
Chapel, where one of his first official
acts as President was to offer prayers
of dedication to God on America’s be-
half. This is truly a remarkable event
made possible by Pastor Dan and
JoAnn Cummins.
Mr. Speaker, Capitol Worship fosters
strong personal and bipartisan rela-
tionships between Members from both
political parties, and I congratulate
Pastor Dan and JoAnn Cummins on
their dedication to this awesome mis-
sion.
f
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH
(Ms. DEGETTE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Speaker, enough
is enough. Another week, another
school shooting, this time right outside
my district at the STEM Highlands
Ranch School.
My heart aches for everybody there,
but you know something? That is so far
from enough.
People say it is too soon, we can’t
talk about gun safety, but you know
what? Tell that to the survivors of Col-
umbine, only 7 miles away from STEM
Highlands, who have been waiting for
20 years for it to be time.
Tell that to the Sandy Hook parents.
Tell that to the thousands of parents
around this country who have lost
their children in school shootings and
just simply shootings on street cor-
ners.
The time has come. We need com-
monsense gun safety legislation, and
we need it now. Until then, the blood of
these children and all of the other chil-
dren are on all of our hands.
f
RECOGNIZING CLINTON COLUMBUS
JONES
(Mr. MCHENRY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I stand
to recognize the long career and service
of Clinton Columbus Jones, the dean of
the Republican Financial Services
Committee staff. Clinton has been on
the Hill for over 23 years, and he is
leaving to join the Federal Housing Fi-
nance Agency.
A native of both Kansas and my
home State of North Carolina, Clinton
first came to Capitol Hill in 1993, after
earning an urban planning degree and
then a law degree from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
While I don’t agree with his choice of
university, he is a fine and upstanding
human being who has had a fantastic
career on the Hill. He has served under
seven different full committee chair-
men on the Financial Services Com-
mittee, eight Republican Housing Sub-
committee chairmen or ranking mem-
bers, and has helped draft some of the
most important housing and insurance
bills of this generation, including the
Quality Housing and Work Responsi-
bility Act of 1998, the Housing Oppor-
tunity Through Modernization Act of
2016, and the Biggert-Waters Flood In-
surance Reform and Modernization Act
of 2012.
In addition to his work on the Hill,
Clinton has taught prelaw at Howard
University for over 20 years and is a
single father to a wonderful 15-year-old
son and great student, Clinton Beamon
Jones IV.
We hate to see him go, but we thank
him for his service, not just to this in-
stitution, but to the American people.
We cherish his friendship and the
knowledge he has imparted.
With that, I ask my colleagues to
give a moment of recognition to Clin-
ton Jones.
f
PROTECTING PREEXISTING
CONDITIONS
(Ms. WEXTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, in an un-
precedented move, the Trump adminis-
tration issued dangerous guidance last
year that could effectively eliminate
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions. The administra-
tion’s guidance puts coverage for the
over 130 million Americans with pre-
existing conditions at risk.
Our friends and neighbors, Americans
who have had cancer, Americans who
have high blood pressure, and Ameri-
cans who have been pregnant would all
be at risk of being priced out of their
health insurance or being denied cov-
erage outright.
Mr. Speaker, we can’t go back.
Healthcare is complicated, but this
issue is not. No American should ever
be denied coverage for a preexisting
condition—not now, not ever. That is
why I will be supporting the Protecting
Americans With Preexisting Condi-
tions Act on the House floor this week,
and I urge my colleagues to do the
same.
f
RECOGNIZING SUFFOLK COUNTY
POLICE OFFICER THOMAS WILSON
(Mr. ZELDIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Suffolk County Po-
lice Officer Thomas Wilson.
In responding to a 911 hang up call,
Officer Wilson came upon a female vic-
tim with severe stab wounds and an
armed assailant who refused to sur-
render. Thanks to his quick and meas-
ured thinking, while assuming clear
risk to his own life, Officer Wilson was
able to subdue and arrest the armed as-
sailant and provide lifesaving first aid
to the female victim.
His courageous actions have earned
him the Silver Shield Award from Suf-
folk County PBA, and he will soon re-
ceive the Combat Medal from Suffolk
County PD.
While this is an extraordinary act of
heroism, those who know Officer Wil-
son are not surprised. This is the same
man who worked on the pile in the
aftermath of 9/11 for 350 hours and who
has traveled to D.C. dozens of times to
fight for the Zadroga Act and to fully
fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation
Fund.
On behalf of our entire community
and Nation, I thank Officer Wilson for
his continued service.
f
CONGRATULATING ARVIN HIGH
SCHOOL COLOR GUARD
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. COX of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
the Arvin High School color guard.
Ranked number one in California, the
Bears recently won the Western Cham-
pionships in Las Vegas, Nevada, and
this last April brought home the silver
medal at the World Color Guard Cham-
pionships in Dayton, Ohio. The team
has proven that hard work, practice,
and teamwork can bring success in any
arena.
Led by Director Bryan Dandin, I am
so proud of team members Ivan Perez,
Andrea Ramos, Ivory Rose Iglesias,
Karen Jaqueline Islas Rosas, Jose
Nava, Melisa Sierra, Jocelyne Tapia,
Yasmin Zavala, Maria Nunez, Maria
Ramos Navarro, Juan Gomez, Cithali
Barrena, Veronica Sanchez, Cassandra
Cervantes, Enrique Portillo, Nevaeh
Arriaga, Emily Watson, and Jessica Si-
erra. I look forward to their future vic-
tories and the success I know they will
have in life.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
congratulating the team.
Go, Bears.
f
HONORING DR. HILDA SHIRK
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, a
few weeks ago, our Nation observed Na-
tional Public Health Week, and I rise
today to honor the work and accom-
plishments of a leading figure in public
health in Lancaster County, Dr. Hilda
Shirk, who is retiring after 7 years as
president and CEO of Lancaster Health
Center.
Dr. Shirk has been a tireless advo-
cate for public health and for ensuring
everyone has access to quality care,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.010 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3485
May 8, 2019
and she has been a tremendous leader
in our Lancaster County community.
Just last year, the health center that
she leads logged over 80,000 patient vis-
its.
Madam Speaker, Dr. Shirk led the
health center during a pivotal time in
the organization’s history. Under her
steadfast leadership, she grew the orga-
nization in many ways, including dou-
bling the organization’s operating
budget, increasing its staff by nearly 50
percent, and increasing accessibility at
two new sites in Lancaster City.
Dr. Shirk will be retiring later this
year. It is a pleasure to honor such an
incredible community leader. We
thank her for her years of service and
wish her well in her retirement.
f
REMEMBERING ANNE MARIE
FEENEY
(Mr. SCHRADER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, it is
with a heavy heart that I rise today to
recognize and remember a dear friend
and devoted, lifelong public servant,
my former executive assistant Anne
Marie Feeney.
Anne Marie began her more than four
decades in Congress in the 1970s with
Senator Robert Byrd and retired her
career in my office in 2014.
Across the Capitol, Anne Marie was a
force to be reckoned with, having
served through eight Presidencies and
more than 20 Congresses. She knew her
stuff.
Beginning her career at a time when
few women were hired as congressional
staff, she spearheaded the charge to
bring full-time childcare to Congress
for both Members and staff.
When I was first elected to Congress
in 2008, it was Anne Marie who helped
me set up my office and guided me
through the ins and outs of Congress. I
credit her with building the close-knit
family culture my office is fortunate to
have.
My thoughts this past 2 weeks have
been with her daughter, Marybeth; son-
in-law, Jamie; grandson, Kyle; sister,
Mollie; and brother-in-law, John, as we
mourn a great loss and remember the
incredibly strong and caring woman
that was Anne Marie Feeney.
f
b 1215
CREATION OF THE SKYLINE DRUG
TASK FORCE
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to talk about an issue of grave
concern in my district. The Skyline
Drive corridor in central and western
Virginia has become the center of a
drug trafficking problem that is rav-
aging my district.
This challenge has warranted the cre-
ation of a Skyline Drug Task Force to
combat drug problems in the commu-
nity. This counter-drug team has car-
ried out searches and made arrests, in-
cluding of an individual suspected to be
a high-level member of a Mexican drug
trafficking organization, a cartel, who
had, according to the judge, caused
unfathomable damage to the commu-
nity.
The damage caused by this organiza-
tion and the many others trafficking in
our communities and in the Fifth Dis-
trict of Virginia is very real and very
lasting.
It is necessary, for the safety of my
constituents, to have the region des-
ignated as a High Intensity Drug Area
to give law enforcement the funding
and support they need to continue the
fight against the dangerous drug deal-
ers.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE CONGRESSIONAL-EXECU-
TIVE COMMISSION ON THE PEO-
PLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. COX
of California). The Chair announces the
Speaker’s appointment, pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 6913, and the order of the House
of January 3, 2019, of the following
Members on the part of the House to
the Congressional-Executive Commis-
sion on the People’s Republic of China:
Ms. KAPTUR, Ohio
Mr. SUOZZI, New York
Mr. MALINOWSKI, New Jersey
Mr. MCADAMS, Utah
Mr. SMITH, New Jersey
Mr. MAST, Florida
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PURPLE BOOK CONTINUITY ACT
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1520) to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for the publica-
tion of a list of licensed biological
products, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1520
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Purple Book
Continuity Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PUBLIC LISTING.
Section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 262(k)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(9) PUBLIC LISTING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(i) INITIAL PUBLICATION.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of the Purple
Book Continuity Act of 2019, the Secretary shall
publish and make available to the public in a
searchable, electronic format—
‘‘(I) a list in alphabetical order of the non-
proprietary or proper name of each biological
product for which a biologics license under sub-
section (a) or this subsection is in effect, or that
has been deemed to be licensed under this sec-
tion pursuant to section 7002(e)(4) of the Bio-
logics Price Competition and Innovation Act of
2009, as of such date of enactment;
‘‘(II) the date of approval of the marketing
application and the application number; and
‘‘(III) the marketing or licensure status of the
biological product for which a biologics license
under subsection (a) or this subsection is in ef-
fect or that has been deemed to be licensed
under this section pursuant to section 7002(e)(4)
of the Biologics Price Competition and Innova-
tion Act of 2009.
‘‘(ii) REVISIONS.—Every 30 days after the pub-
lication of the first list under clause (i), the Sec-
retary shall revise the list to include each bio-
logical product which has been licensed under
subsection (a) or this subsection during the 30-
day period.
‘‘(iii) PATENT INFORMATION.—Not later than
30 days after a list of patents under subsection
(l)(3)(A), or a supplement to such list under sub-
section (l)(7), has been provided by the reference
product sponsor to the subsection (k) applicant
respecting a biological product included on the
list published under this subparagraph, the ref-
erence product sponsor shall provide such list of
patents (or supplement thereto) and their cor-
responding expiry dates to the Secretary, and
the Secretary shall, in revisions made under
clause (ii), include such information for such bi-
ological product. Within 30 days of providing
any subsequent or supplemental list of patents
to any subsequent subsection (k) applicant
under subsection (l)(3)(A) or (l)(7), the reference
product sponsor shall update the information
provided to the Secretary under this clause with
any additional patents from such subsequent or
supplemental list and their corresponding expiry
dates.
‘‘(iv) LISTING OF EXCLUSIVITIES.—For each bi-
ological product included on the list published
under this subparagraph, the Secretary shall
specify each exclusivity period that is applicable
and has not concluded under paragraph (6) or
paragraph (7).
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL OR SUSPENSION OF LICEN-
SURE.—If the licensing of a biological product
was withdrawn or suspended for safety, purity,
or potency reasons, it may not be published in
the list under subparagraph (A). If the with-
drawal or suspension occurred after its publica-
tion in such list, the reference product sponsor
shall notify the Secretary that—
‘‘(i) the biological product shall be imme-
diately removed from such list—
‘‘(I) for the same period as the withdrawal or
suspension; or
‘‘(II) if the biological product has been with-
drawn from sale, for the period of withdrawal
from sale or, if earlier, the period ending on the
date the Secretary determines that the with-
drawal from sale is not for safety, purity, or po-
tency reasons; and
‘‘(ii) a notice of the removal shall be published
in the Federal Register.’’.
SEC. 3. REVIEW AND REPORT ON TYPES OF IN-
FORMATION TO BE LISTED.
Not later than 3 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall—
(1) solicit public comment regarding the type
of information, if any, that should be added to
or removed from the list required by paragraph
(9) of section 351(k) of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)), as added by section 2;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.012 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3486 May 8, 2019
(2) transmit to Congress an evaluation of such
comments, including any recommendations
about the types of information that should be
added to or removed from the list.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. ESHOO) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1520.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1520, the Purple Book Continuity Act
of 2019. I am proud that my bipartisan
legislation is being considered because
it makes important updates and im-
provements to the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration’s Purple Book.
I am also pleased that it is the first
drug pricing bill to be considered by
the full House this Congress. The legis-
lation makes it easier for manufactur-
ers to research and develop biosimilars,
which are essentially generic biological
products, and drive down prescription
drug prices for the American people.
The so-called ‘‘Purple Book’’ lists bi-
ological products, including
biosimilars, that are licensed by the
FDA. The Purple Book is a resource
published by the FDA that includes
very important information about ex-
isting products, about including des-
ignations that extend the product’s ex-
clusivity, and what active patents each
product has.
Today, the FDA is not statutorily re-
quired to publish this information, nor
is the agency required to update the re-
source in a timely manner. The Purple
Book also is not currently user-friend-
ly and is burdensome for companies to
access and use. Companies rely on the
Purple Book to inform their research
and development activities, and it is
imperative that the resource is up-to-
date and easily accessible, so they can
move quickly to produce cost-saving
biosimilar drugs which are, essentially,
as I said previously, generic versions of
the most complex, high-cost biological
products.
The Purple Book Continuity Act
builds on previous work to promote the
development of biosimilars and other
alternatives to the highest-priced bio-
logic products by putting necessary
patent information into an easily ac-
cessible resource so companies can
more efficiently and effectively direct
their work to develop biosimilars.
The Purple Book Continuity Act
takes an important step to make it
easier for the manufacturers to access
patent and exclusivity information
they need to invest in biosimilar devel-
opment so that drug prices—the whole
point is so that drug prices can be low-
ered for the American people.
So the Purple Book Continuity Act
passed the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee by voice vote last month and,
today, I urge my colleagues to support
it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 1520,
the Purple Book Continuity Act. This
bill has moved through regular order in
the Energy and Commerce Committee
and does, in fact, have broad bipartisan
support. This may be only a small part
of solving the problems of drug pricing,
however, it is an important part of
that question.
Through the Biologics Price Com-
petition and Innovation Act, Congress
established a pathway for biosimilars
to enter the therapeutic market so
that patients would have more treat-
ment options, more access to lifesaving
medications, and lower healthcare
costs.
As the Food and Drug Administrator,
at the time, Scott Gottlieb announced,
there is a four-point plan to increase
biosimilar availability. The plan would
focus on increasing market competi-
tion by reducing delays to entry; im-
proving the efficiency of biosimilar de-
velopment; maximize the clarity of the
regulatory process; and develop a com-
munications strategy to promote
biosimilars.
The Purple Book plays an important
role in biosimilar development. It lists
the licensed biologic products, includ-
ing any biosimilar or interchangeable
biologic product, and any relevant ex-
clusivity information. The Purple Book
is not currently required by law and
takes the form of two separate and
sometimes cumbersome PDF files.
H.R. 1520 codifies the Purple Book
and requires the Food and Drug Admin-
istration to publish the information in
a searchable format, similar to the Or-
ange Book. This bill will make the Pur-
ple Book a more useful tool for devel-
opers of biosimilars, in addition to pro-
viders, payors, and patients.
The Food and Drug Administration
provided us with some important feed-
back that would ensure that the agen-
cy will be able to effectively imple-
ment this legislation should it become
law. Enhancing the Purple Book is
critical to the transparency of the rel-
evant intellectual property protec-
tions, as well as other factors consid-
ered by the developers of biosimilars.
So I certainly want to thank the
chairwoman for her willingness to
work with us and the agency on this
important issue. I am pleased to co-
sponsor this bill, and I urge other
Members to support it this afternoon.
Mr. Speaker, I have no other speak-
ers. I urge support of this bill upon pas-
sage, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
ESHOO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1520, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I object to
the vote on the ground that a quorum
is not present and make the point of
order that a quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
ORANGE BOOK TRANSPARENCY
ACT OF 2019
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1503) to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act regarding the
list under section 505(j)(7) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1503
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Orange Book
Transparency Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. ORANGE BOOK.
(a) SUBMISSION OF PATENT INFORMATION FOR
BRAND NAME DRUGS.—Paragraph (1) of section
505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(b)(1) Any person may file with the Secretary
an application with respect to any drug subject
to the provisions of subsection (a). Such persons
shall submit to the Secretary as part of the ap-
plication—
‘‘(A) full reports of investigations which have
been made to show whether or not such drug is
safe for use and whether such drug is effective
in use;
‘‘(B) a full list of the articles used as compo-
nents of such drug;
‘‘(C) a full statement of the composition of
such drug;
‘‘(D) a full description of the methods used in,
and the facilities and controls used for, the
manufacture, processing, and packing of such
drug;
‘‘(E) such samples of such drug and of the ar-
ticles used as components thereof as the Sec-
retary may require;
‘‘(F) specimens of the labeling proposed to be
used for such drug;
‘‘(G) any assessments required under section
505B; and
‘‘(H) patent information, with respect to each
patent for which a claim of patent infringement
could reasonably be asserted if a person not li-
censed by the owner engaged in the manufac-
ture, use, or sale of the drug, and consistent
with the following requirements:
‘‘(i) The applicant shall file with the applica-
tion the patent number and the expiration date
of—
‘‘(I) any patent which claims the drug for
which the applicant submitted the application
and is a drug substance (including active ingre-
dient) patent or a drug product (including for-
mulation and composition) patent; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.004 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3487
May 8, 2019
‘‘(II) any patent which claims the method of
using such drug.
‘‘(ii) If an application is filed under this sub-
section for a drug and a patent of the type de-
scribed in clause (i) which claims such drug or
a method of using such drug is issued after the
filing date but before approval of the applica-
tion, the applicant shall amend the application
to include such patent information.
Upon approval of the application, the Secretary
shall publish the information submitted under
subparagraph (H). The Secretary shall, in con-
sultation with the Director of the National In-
stitutes of Health and with representatives of
the drug manufacturing industry, review and
develop guidance, as appropriate, on the inclu-
sion of women and minorities in clinical trials
required by subparagraph (A).’’.
(b) CONFORMING CHANGES TO REQUIREMENTS
FOR SUBSEQUENT SUBMISSION OF PATENT INFOR-
MATION.—Section 505(c)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after ‘‘the patent number and
the expiration date of any patent which’’ the
following: ‘‘fulfills the criteria in subsection (b)
and’’;
(2) by inserting after the first sentence the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Patent information that is not the type
of patent information required by subsection (b)
shall not be submitted.’’; and
(3) by inserting after ‘‘could not file patent in-
formation under subsection (b) because no pat-
ent’’ the following: ‘‘of the type required to be
submitted in subsection (b)’’.
(c) LISTING OF EXCLUSIVITIES.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iv) For each drug included on the list, the
Secretary shall specify each exclusivity period
that is applicable and has not concluded
under—
‘‘(I) clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of subsection
(c)(3)(E) of this section;
‘‘(II) clause (iv) or (v) of paragraph (5)(B) of
this subsection;
‘‘(III) clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of paragraph
(5)(F) of this subsection;
‘‘(IV) section 505A;
‘‘(V) section 505E; or
‘‘(VI) section 527(a).’’.
(d) REMOVAL OF INVALID PATENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 505(j)(7) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)(7)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(D)(i) The holder of an application approved
under subsection (c) for a drug on the list shall
notify within 14 days the Secretary in writing if
either of the following occurs:
‘‘(I) The Patent Trial and Appeals Board
issues a decision from which no appeal has been
or can be taken that a patent for such drug is
invalid.
‘‘(II) A court issues a decision from which no
appeal has been or can be taken that a patent
for such drug is invalid.
‘‘(ii) The holder of an approved application
shall include in any notification under clause
(i) a copy of the decision described in subclause
(I) or (II) of clause (i).
‘‘(iii) The Secretary shall remove from the list
any patent that is determined to be invalid in a
decision described in subclause (I) or (II) of
clause (i)—
‘‘(I) promptly; but
‘‘(II) not before the expiration of any 180-day
exclusivity period under paragraph (5)(B)(iv)
that relies on a certification described in para-
graph (2)(A)(vii)(IV) that such patent was in-
valid.’’.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (D) of sec-
tion 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)), as added by
paragraph (1), applies only with respect to a de-
cision described in such subparagraph that is
issued on or after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(e) REVIEW AND REPORT.—Not later than one
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting
through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs,
shall—
(1) solicit public comment regarding the types
of patent information that should be included
on the list under section 507(j)(7) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)(7)); and
(2) transmit to the Congress an evaluation of
such comments, including any recommendations
about the types of patent information that
should be included on or removed from such list.
SEC. 3. GAO REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Comptroller
General’’) shall submit to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the patents included in the list
published under section 505(j)(7) of the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)(7)), including an analysis and evaluation
of the types of patents included in such list and
the claims such patents make about the prod-
ucts they claim.
(b) CONTENTS.—The Comptroller General shall
include in the report under subsection (a)—
(1) data on the number of—
(A) patents included in the list published
under paragraph (7) of section 505(j) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)), that claim the active ingredient or for-
mulation of a drug in combination with a device
that is used for delivery of the drug, together
comprising the finished dosage form of the drug;
and
(B) claims in each patent that claim a device
that is used for the delivery of the drug, but do
not claim such device in combination with an
active ingredient or formulation of a drug;
(2) data on the date of inclusion in the list
under paragraph (7) of such section 505(j) for all
patents under such list, as compared to patents
that claim a method of using the drug in com-
bination with a device;
(3) an analysis regarding the impact of in-
cluding on the list under paragraph (7) of such
section 505(j) certain types of patent information
for drug product applicants and approved appli-
cation holders, including an analysis of wheth-
er—
(A) the listing of the patents described in
paragraph (1)(A) delayed the market entry of
one or more drugs approved under such section
505(j); and
(B) not listing the patents described in para-
graph (1)(A) would delay the market entry of
one or more such drugs; and
(4) recommendations about which kinds of
patents relating to devices described in para-
graph (1)(A) should be submitted to the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services for inclu-
sion on the list under paragraph (7) of such sec-
tion 505(j) and which patents should not be re-
quired to be so submitted.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. ESHOO) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1503.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1503. This is a different color book. It is
the Orange Book Transparency Act of
2019, sponsored by the gentlewoman
from Illinois, Congresswoman ROBIN
KELLY. Her bipartisan legislation
makes important updates to the Food
and Drug Administration’s Orange
Book to ensure that this resource is ac-
curate and up-to-date to promote the
development of generic drugs that save
so many Americans so much money.
When it passed in 1984, the Drug
Price Competition and Patent Term
Restoration Act, also referred to as
Hatch-Waxman, created the Orange
Book as a resource for drug manufac-
turers to reference when deciding when
and how to seek approval for new drug
products. The so-called ‘‘Orange Book’’
contains valuable information, is regu-
larly referenced by manufacturers, and
is published in a user-friendly way on
FDA’s website.
But this resource has not been up-
dated since it was created in 1994. That
is a long time ago. It is over 3 decades
ago. And the Orange Book Trans-
parency Act of 2019 makes important
updates to the resource to adapt to the
changes in drug development since
Hatch-Waxman became law.
Generic drug manufacturers rely
heavily on the Orange Book, and it is
imperative that this resource is accu-
rate and up-to-date so drug manufac-
turers can invest in products that pro-
mote competition and lower drug
prices for the American people.
The Orange Book Transparency Act
of 2019 passed the Energy and Com-
merce Committee by voice vote last
month, and I was proud to support it. I
urge my colleagues to support the Or-
ange Book Transparency Act of 2019
today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1503, the Orange Book Trans-
parency Act of 2019. This is a bipar-
tisan product that moved through the
Energy and Commerce Committee, and
I would like to thank Representative
ROBIN KELLY for introducing this legis-
lation.
The publication of the Approved
Drug Products with Therapeutic
Equivalence Evaluations, known as the
Orange Book, lists drug products that
have been approved by the Food and
Drug Administration on the basis of
safety and effectiveness. Importantly,
the Orange Book lists therapeutic
equivalence evaluations for approved
multisource prescription drug products
in addition to relevant patent and ex-
clusivity information.
This publication provides informa-
tion to State health agencies, pre-
scribers, and to others to inform deci-
sionmaking, and allow for the contain-
ment of healthcare costs, as well as
educate the public.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.005 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3488 May 8, 2019
b 1230
A preliminary version of the Orange
Book was produced in 1979. It was not
until 1984, with the enactment of the
Drug Price Competition and Patent
Term Restoration Act of 1984, more
commonly known as the Hatch-Wax-
man Act, that Congress codified the
Orange Book.
This bill amends existing statute to
make the Orange Book more useful,
particularly for manufacturers of ge-
neric drugs. Enactment of this bill will
allow these manufacturers to know
which branded products face competi-
tion and when those products will no
longer be protected by patents. Insur-
ance companies, doctors, and patients
will be able to determine when a ge-
neric alternative is available for a
more expensive branded product.
The Food and Drug Administration is
already performing the practices con-
tained in this bill, but the legislation
would codify current practices and en-
sure that certain patents are listed in
the Orange Book. Additionally, patents
that are found invalid would have to be
removed following the conclusion of
any appeals process.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. KELLY), the author of H.R.
1503 and a wonderful member of the
Health Subcommittee.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I
am pleased today to speak on my bill,
H.R. 1503, the Orange Book Trans-
parency Act, and the critical issue of
transparency in the drug and medical
device development space.
Should my colleagues vote in favor of
this significant bill, the Orange Book
Transparency Act will more efficiently
achieve lowered costs and higher qual-
ity life-saving medicines for con-
sumers. It will enhance market com-
petition by getting generic drugs to
market more rapidly. As much data
show us, enhancing the market for ge-
neric drugs is one of the quickest ways
to lower the costs that consumers pay
at the pharmacy.
Two things matter to me with re-
spect to healthcare costs. One, we must
be proactive in enhancing transparency
with regard to the information made
available to generic drug developers.
Most importantly, we must improve ef-
ficiency in the market for prescription
drugs in order to ultimately lower
costs to patients, their families, and
their caregivers.
The Orange Book Transparency Act
addresses both of these points by en-
suring clarity in patent and exclusivity
information maintained by FDA. It
also requires that the Government Ac-
countability Office study the effects of
listing drug delivery patents in the Or-
ange Book.
To be very clear, I support intellec-
tual property protections for those re-
searching and developing innovative
treatments, but we have the responsi-
bility to close loopholes that allow
drugmakers to prevent timely access
to information that would lead to new
generic drug development, increasing
patient access and affordability.
Today, I present a strong and
straightforward piece of legislation in
order to get lower-cost drugs to Ameri-
cans in my district and across the
country. I am ecstatic that this bill is
not only straightforward but also bi-
partisan.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague
from Kentucky, Mr. GUTHRIE, for his
work on this bill and key stakeholders
for their feedback throughout the proc-
ess.
The Orange Book Transparency Act
moves us in the right direction toward
transparency and lower drug costs.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to vote in support of H.R. 1503 today.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. GUTHRIE), the Republican
ranking member of the Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee of the
Energy and Commerce Committee.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1503, the Or-
ange Book Transparency Act of 2019.
The Food and Drug Administration’s
list of approved brand name thera-
peutic drug products, known as the Or-
ange Book, plays an important role in
drug development. H.R. 1503 will ensure
the Orange Book continues to be effec-
tive and accurate by requiring drug
companies to provide up-to-date infor-
mation on patents that are relevant to
each individual drug. It also directs the
Government Accountability Office to
study the impact of the patents being
listed in the Orange Book.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman
KELLY from Illinois for her commit-
ment to maintaining the value of the
Orange Book to drug manufacturers,
payers, providers, and patients. I ap-
preciate her willingness to work to-
gether in a bipartisan manner, and I
urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1503.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
H.R. 1503 would support the work
that the Food and Drug Administra-
tion is already conducting and facili-
tate competition in the marketplace.
Therefore, I urge my fellow Members to
support this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I urge all
Members of the House to support this
bipartisan legislation that is going to
move us closer to our overall goal of
lowering the cost of prescription drugs
for the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
ESHOO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1503, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ADVANCING CRITICAL CONNECT-
IVITY EXPANDS SERVICE,
SMALL BUSINESS RESOURCES,
OPPORTUNITIES, ACCESS, AND
DATA BASED ON ASSESSED
NEED AND DEMAND ACT
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1328) to establish the Office of
Internet Connectivity and Growth, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1328
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Advancing
Critical Connectivity Expands Service,
Small Business Resources, Opportunities,
Access, and Data Based on Assessed Need and
Demand Act’’ or the ‘‘ACCESS BROADBAND
Act’’.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF
INTERNET CONNECTIVITY AND
GROWTH.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Sec-
retary shall establish the Office of Internet
Connectivity and Growth within the Na-
tional Telecommunications and Information
Administration.
SEC. 3. DUTIES.
(a) OUTREACH.—The Office shall—
(1) connect with communities that need ac-
cess to high-speed internet and improved
digital inclusion efforts through various
forms of outreach and communication tech-
niques;
(2) hold regional workshops across the
country to share best practices and effective
strategies for promoting broadband access
and adoption;
(3) develop targeted broadband training
and presentations for various demographic
communities through various media; and
(4) develop and distribute publications (in-
cluding toolkits, primers, manuals, and
white papers) providing guidance, strategies,
and insights to communities as the commu-
nities develop strategies to expand
broadband access and adoption.
(b) TRACKING OF FEDERAL DOLLARS.—
(1) BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE.—The Of-
fice shall track the construction and use of
and access to any broadband infrastructure
built using any Federal support in a central
database.
(2) ACCOUNTING MECHANISM.—The Office
shall develop a streamlined accounting
mechanism by which any agency offering a
Federal broadband support program and the
Commission through the Universal Service
Fund shall provide the information described
in paragraph (1) in a standardized and effi-
cient fashion.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
every year thereafter, the Office shall make
public on the website of the Office and sub-
mit to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report on the
following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.017 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3489
May 8, 2019
(A) A description of the work of the Office
for the previous year and the number of resi-
dents of the United States that received
broadband as result of Federal broadband
support programs and the Universal Service
Fund program.
(B) A description of how many residents of
the United States were provided broadband
by which universal service mechanism or
which Federal broadband support program.
(C) An estimate of the economic impact of
such broadband deployment efforts on the
local economy, including any effect on small
businesses or jobs.
SEC. 4. STREAMLINED APPLICATIONS FOR SUP-
PORT.
(a) AGENCY CONSULTATION.—The Office
shall consult with any agency offering a Fed-
eral broadband support program to stream-
line and standardize the applications process
for financial assistance or grants for such
program.
(b) AGENCY STREAMLINING.—Any agency of-
fering a Federal broadband support program
shall amend their applications for broadband
support, to the extent practicable and as
necessary, to streamline and standardize ap-
plications for Federal broadband support
programs across the Government.
(c) SINGLE APPLICATION.—To the greatest
extent practicable, the Office shall seek to
create one application that may be sub-
mitted to apply for all, or substantially all,
Federal broadband support programs.
(d) WEBSITE REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Office shall create a central website
through which potential applicants can learn
about and apply for support through any
Federal broadband support program.
SEC. 5. COORDINATION OF SUPPORT.
The Office, any agency that offers a Fed-
eral broadband support program, and the
Commission through the Universal Service
Fund shall coordinate with the Office to en-
sure that support is being distributed in an
efficient, technology-neutral, and financially
sustainable manner, with the goal of serving
the largest number of persons in the United
States while avoiding overbuilding and pro-
moting the most job and economic growth
for all residents of the United States.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘‘agency’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 551 of
title 5, United States Code.
(2) ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘As-
sistant Secretary’’ means the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information.
(3) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Com-
mission.
(4) FEDERAL BROADBAND SUPPORT PRO-
GRAM.—The term ‘‘Federal broadband sup-
port program’’ does not include any Uni-
versal Service Fund program and means any
of the following programs (or any other simi-
lar Federal program) to the extent the pro-
gram offers broadband internet service or
programs for promoting broadband access
and adoption for various demographic com-
munities through various media for residen-
tial, commercial, community providers, or
academic establishments:
(A) The Telecommunications and Tech-
nology Program of the Appalachian Regional
Commission.
(B) The Telecommunications Infrastruc-
ture Loans and Loan Guarantees, the Rural
Broadband Access Loans and Loan Guaran-
tees, the Substantially Underserved Trust
Areas Provisions, the Community Connect
Grant Program, and the Distance Learning
and Telemedicine Grant Program of the
Rural Utilities Service of the Department of
Agriculture.
(C) The Public Works and Economic Ad-
justment Assistance Programs and the Plan-
ning and Local Technical Assistance Pro-
grams of the Economic Development Admin-
istration of the Department of Commerce.
(D) The Community Development Block
Grants and Section 108 Loan Guarantees, the
Funds for Public Housing Authorities: Cap-
ital Fund and Operating Fund, the Multi-
family Housing, the Indian Community De-
velopment Block Grant Program, the Indian
Housing Block Grant Program, the Title VI
Loan Guarantee Program, Choice Neighbor-
hoods, the HOME Investment Partnerships
Program, the Housing Trust Fund, and the
Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
(E) The American Job Centers of the Em-
ployment and Training Administration of
the Department of Labor.
(F) The Library Services and Technology
Grant Programs of the Institute of Museum
and Library Services.
(5) OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Office’’ means the
Office of Internet Connectivity and Growth
established pursuant to section 2.
(6) UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND PROGRAM.—
The term ‘‘Universal Service Fund program’’
means any program authorized under section
254 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 254) to help deploy broadband.
(7) UNIVERSAL SERVICE MECHANISM.—The
term ‘‘universal service mechanism’’ means
any funding stream provided by a Universal
Service Fund program to support broadband
access.
SEC. 7. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act is intended to alter or
amend any provision of section 254 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254).
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. TONKO) and the gentle-
woman from Indiana (Mrs. BROOKS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 1328, as
amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
1328, the Advancing Critical
Connectivity Expands Service, Small
Business Resources, Opportunities, Ac-
cess, and Data Based on Assessed Need
and Demand Act, or the ACCESS
BROADBAND Act.
Mr. Speaker, I first want to thank
my good friend, Representative
BROOKS, for partnering with me on this
legislation. I also thank the bipartisan
group of Members who have cospon-
sored and supported this legislation,
including the many members of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee who
agree that these simple steps can make
a big difference for the local commu-
nities that our Federal broadband pro-
grams are meant for.
Let me be clear: This bill is about
serving the people. While a number of
valuable Federal broadband initiatives
exist, they are siloed in different agen-
cies and are not often coordinated with
one another. As a result, the process
for local community and business lead-
ers can be confusing.
H.R. 1328, the ACCESS BROADBAND
Act, would establish a coordinating of-
fice for Federal broadband resources by
creating an Office of Internet
Connectivity and Growth within the
National Telecommunications and In-
formation Administration at the De-
partment of Commerce.
Helping these constituents gain ac-
cess to broadband internet in the cap-
ital region is one of the reasons I
sought to join the Energy and Com-
merce Committee and why I have
worked to advance this legislation.
Access to high-speed broadband
internet service is increasingly essen-
tial. Today, people rely on baseline
internet access for banking, to find a
job, to do their homework, to commu-
nicate with their doctor or other
healthcare provider, to communicate
with their loved ones, to petition their
government, and so much more. Yet,
many Americans still do not have reli-
able high-speed internet service at
home.
While a number of valuable Federal
broadband initiatives exist, they are
siloed in different agencies and are not
often coordinated with one another. As
a result, the process for local commu-
nity and business leaders can be con-
fusing.
H.R. 1328, the Advancing Critical
Connectivity Expands Service, Small
Business Resources, Opportunities, Ac-
cess, and Data Based on Assessed Need
and Demand Act, or ACCESS
BROADBAND Act, would establish a
coordinating office.
This new office would hold regional
workshops to share best practices and
strategies for supporting local business
and community leaders interested in
expanding broadband access and its
adoption.
Our bill would also direct the Office
of Internet Connectivity and Growth to
consult with any agency offering Fed-
eral broadband support to streamline
the application process and, to the
greatest extent practicable, to create
one universal application regardless of
which Federal agency or office is in-
volved.
Most importantly, this new office,
Mr. Speaker, will be charged with co-
ordinating broadband support provided
by all of our Federal agencies that are
working to solve this problem, includ-
ing support offered at the Federal Com-
munications Commission and the Rural
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.006 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3490 May 8, 2019
Utility Service at the Department of
Agriculture.
Furthermore, the bill clarifies that
nothing in this act would alter or
amend any provision of the section of
law that authorizes the FCC’s Uni-
versal Service Fund.
H.R. 1328 is an important bill that
would indeed help speed up broadband
deployment to unserved and under-
served areas and promote broadband
adoption.
There is still much more work to be
done on this issue, and I do hope that
this can serve as a starting place for us
to open doors of opportunity and access
to millions of Americans by investing
in broadband expansion.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all the Members
and staff working together on ACCESS
BROADBAND to help ensure that our
communities can access the broadband
resources that they need to grow and
prosper.
The ACCESS BROADBAND Act is a
bipartisan, commonsense bill, and I
urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1328, the ACCESS BROADBAND
Act. I would also like to take this time
to thank my colleague, Representative
TONKO, for asking me to partner on
this very important bill. I thank him
and his team for this work.
Why is this bill so important? To put
it simply, people in every State of our
country, including Indiana, need better
access to the internet.
This is no surprise to us. Every time
I am home, back in the Fifth District,
Hoosiers, particularly from rural areas,
tell me they are afraid of being left be-
hind in the 21st century economy be-
cause we continue to be more and more
reliant on technology.
I have spoken to many members of
the Indiana Farm Bureau who have
voiced their continued concerns with
the level of connectivity in Indiana
and, as we have learned, throughout
the country. They cannot wait and
hope for new technology to fix their
connectivity problems that have ex-
isted for years.
Additionally, today, more and more
schools require homework to be sub-
mitted electronically, tests are taken
online, and class notes are posted on
school websites. When students can’t
access the internet, they often have to
travel to a library daily in order to just
keep up with their studies, or they risk
falling behind in their classes.
We can’t forget about the impact the
internet has had on businesses of all
sizes, especially small businesses. This
week is National Small Business Week,
so small businesses from across the
country are meeting with Members of
Congress or their staff about the obsta-
cles they face as they work to grow
their businesses.
Each year, these advocates highlight
the need for the Federal Government
to better support their efforts. A sig-
nificant part of that equation is work-
ing to ensure better and faster access
to the internet, no matter where their
business is located or no matter how
large or small it is.
When small businesses don’t have
broadband internet access, their com-
munities suffer, and they miss opportu-
nities to create new jobs, drive innova-
tion, and increase our country’s global
competitiveness.
b 1245
For all these reasons and more, we
must do more to support our commu-
nities in an age where internet
connectivity is crucial to success.
Indiana has recognized this critical
need and has made a commitment to
invest $100 million in supporting
broadband access across the State for
underserved areas. This Next Level
Connections program is exactly the
kind of idea that the ACCESS
BROADBAND Act will help support. By
making Federal resources easier to ac-
cess, Indiana will be better able to sup-
port its own internet access efforts.
The ACCESS BROADBAND Act is an
important step toward eliminating
broadband access difficulties. This bill
will require the National Tele-
communications and Information Ad-
ministration to create an office to co-
ordinate all the various Federal efforts
that support broadband deployment
and access. This office will perform
outreach to communities in every cor-
ner of our country to inform them how
they can best support internet access
development. It will also require the
office to standardize applications for fi-
nancial assistance or grants and work
to create a single application for all
Federal broadband support programs.
This bill is about bringing the bene-
fits of broadband communications into
the lives of our constituents. I am glad
Congress is acting on a solution to help
address this problem faced not only by
Hoosiers but Americans all across the
country.
I thank the gentleman from New
York, Representative TONKO, once
again for allowing me to partner with
him on this important legislation. I
look forward to working with him in
the future on similar issues to ensure
that our country and our constituents
are wired and ready to compete.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
in the House to support this measure,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, again, I
urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1328. It underscores the very relevance
and importance of broadband in today’s
society. It speaks to fairness for all
communities, certainly for all house-
holds, businesses, and the like. It is a
way for us to offer a greater partner-
ship with government, more effective
governance, with this given phe-
nomenon of technology. I encourage
my colleagues to support that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
TONKO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1328, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, May 8, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
May 8, 2019, at 11 :00 a.m.:
Appointment:
Congressional-Executive Commission on
the People’s Republic of China.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe (Helsinki).
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERLY L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 48
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1330
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CARSON of Indiana) at 1
o’clock and 30 minutes p.m.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States were commu-
nicated to the House by Mr. Brian
Pate, one of his secretaries.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 1503 and
H.R. 1520, if ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.019 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3491
May 8, 2019
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
ORANGE BOOK TRANSPARENCY
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1503) to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act regard-
ing the list under section 505(j)(7) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed, on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
ESHOO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 422, nays 0,
not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 187]
YEAS—422
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Brady
Crow
Cummings
Dunn
Gaetz
Omar
Rice (SC)
Rooney (FL)
Wenstrup
b 1358
Messrs. GOSAR and PETERS
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PURPLE BOOK CONTINUITY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the question on
suspending the rules and passing the
bill (H.R. 1520) to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the
publication of a list of licensed biologi-
cal products, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
ESHOO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I demand a
recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 421, noes 0,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 188]
AYES—421
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.025 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3492 May 8, 2019
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Crow
Cummings
Dunn
Gaetz
O’Halleran
Omar
Palazzo
Rooney (FL)
Wenstrup
Yarmuth
b 1410
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois). Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, if this unan-
imous consent request cannot be enter-
tained, I urge the Speaker and the ma-
jority leader to immediately schedule
the born-alive bill so we can stand up
and protect the sanctity of human life;
and I would ask all others to join in
this request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
b 1415
GUN VIOLENCE AND THE STEM
SHOOTING
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. ‘‘Mommy, there are
gunshots at my school.’’
Mr. Speaker, no parent should ever
hear those words, but that is the call a
parent got yesterday when two stu-
dents entered STEM School Highlands
Ranch in Colorado and opened fire.
Within minutes, first responders sub-
dued the shooters, and I am thankful
for that, but quick is not fast enough.
One teenager died, and eight people
were wounded.
As a parent and a Congressman, my
heart aches for the families and loved
ones of the child who died and those
who were injured.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday’s shooting is
one of 41 incidents of gunfire on school
grounds this year alone. Eight people
have died and 20 have been injured. We
have lost far too many children to gun
violence in our schools and in our
streets.
I am proud of the progress the House
has made to reduce gun violence, but
the Senate GOP’s inaction is out-
rageous. They need to do what is right:
dump the NRA and pass some of this
legislation we have sent to them to re-
duce gun violence.
Enough is enough.
f
COVERAGE FOR PREEXISTING
CONDITIONS
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to bring transparency and atten-
tion to a bill coming for a vote before
this House tomorrow.
H.R. 986, the so-called Protecting
Americans With Preexisting Condi-
tions Act, is undoubtedly one of the
most deceptive bills to come before
this Congress.
The bill does not once mention pro-
tecting those with preexisting condi-
tions. The only place those words ap-
pear is in the title.
The bill merely prevents States from
opting out of two provisions of
ObamaCare, and neither of those provi-
sions protect those with preexisting
conditions.
Some wrongly believe that the Amer-
ican people won’t read beyond the title
of a bill. They are wrong. They will.
Americans care.
There is enough real division in this
country. House Democratic leadership
shouldn’t willfully manufacture dis-
cord through deception.
Furthermore, as someone with a pre-
existing medical condition, I find it
loathsome that anyone would use our
health for their political games. These
are real Americans with real illnesses,
and they deserve actions, not games.
f
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF
LA ASOCIACION DE CRONISTAS
DE ARTE
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize La Asociacion de
Cronistas de Arte, or AcroArte, and
congratulate them on their 25th silver
anniversary.
AcroArte was founded in 1993 by Do-
minican journalists who specialize in
arts and entertainment and has cele-
brated the best and brightest in music,
theater, film, and more.
Together, they established the
Soberano Prize, which was first called
the Casandra, which showcases and re-
wards the best of arts and culture in
the Dominican Republic.
This prestigious recognition has
helped artists gain a foothold among
the Dominican diaspora, sharing the
Dominican identity, culture, and val-
ues around the world.
As more generations of Dominican
Americans share their talents with this
world, I look forward to AcroArte lift-
ing them up.
It is a privilege to welcome AcroArte
here to the U.S. Capitol, and I con-
gratulate them on their 25 years of suc-
cess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.009 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3493
May 8, 2019
RECOGNIZING COMMAND SER-
GEANT MAJOR CAROL WARREN-
CLARK
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Command
Sergeant Major Carol Warren-Clark on
her retirement after serving over 30
years in our United States Armed
Forces.
She has dedicated her time in the
military to healthcare, administering
it in nearly every capacity imaginable
to keep our soldiers healthy.
In Afghanistan, she was responsible
for medical evacuation plans. At Wal-
ter Reed National Military Medical
Center, CMS Warren-Clark directed all
inpatient services.
She also led a medical team for the
57th Presidential inauguration.
Her latest position has been as com-
mand sergeant major for the Winn
Army Community Hospital located in
the First Congressional District of
Georgia, where her ability to increase
efficiency and readiness has shined. By
decreasing administrative costs 5 per-
cent at the hospital and boosting sol-
dier deployment readiness 5 percent,
she has made significant contributions
to every soldier and our military as a
whole.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Command Ser-
geant Major Warren-Clark for her com-
mitment and her service to our Nation.
Enjoy your retirement, and con-
gratulations.
f
THE POWERS OF WAR ARE EN-
TRUSTED TO THE UNITED STATE
CONGRESS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as
the Judiciary Committee sits at this
time to uphold the rule of law, I want
to make sure that the American people
understand the role of the United
States Congress, that is, to represent
the people, to engage in oversight and
truth.
As a student of the Mideast, a visitor
of the Mideast on behalf of this coun-
try on any number of occasions, and, of
course, throughout the Iraq war, and,
of course, also visiting that area of the
world during the Afghan war, I know
what our soldiers go through. Boots on
the ground.
I can never live their life, but I am
very concerned about the presence of
the U.S. military by way of a naval
ship that is in the Mideast at this time.
No explanation has been given to the
American people.
The Secretary of State makes a sur-
prise visit to Iraq.
I simply want to say that the powers
of war are entrusted to the United
States House of Representatives, the
United States Congress.
It is inappropriate for there to be
saber rattling by this administration
with Iran with no explanation as to
why we send young men and women
into harm’s way. We should not use one
approach to start a war to overcome an
approach dealing with the investiga-
tion of the rule of law. I oppose any
such saber rattling.
We need to understand what is going
on in the Mideast. We have to protect
the men and women of the United
States military, though, they fight for
us.
f
HONORING STAFF SERGEANT
JOSHUA BRAICA
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, sadly, I
rise today to honor a fallen U.S. ma-
rine from my district in northern Cali-
fornia.
Staff Sergeant Joshua Braica from
Auburn, California, tragically died on
Sunday, April 14, when his vehicle
rolled over during a training accident
at Camp Pendleton in California.
We, like many in Placer County in
northern California, are mourning the
loss of one of our own, one of our best
and brightest.
Joshua had been in the Marine Corps
for more than 8 years, deploying twice
and serving as a critical skills operator
with the 1st Raider Battalion.
By all accounts, Joshua was an all-
American guy who was greatly admired
by his friends, neighbors, and his fellow
Marines.
At such a young age, he is a deco-
rated and highly trained soldier, with
many awards and many medals to his
name.
He is the oldest of five siblings and is
survived by his wife and his son.
I am praying for all of them, and I
hope that all Members will join me in
doing so as well at this difficult time.
One thing is for sure: Joshua has cer-
tainly made his community and his
country proud.
God bless Joshua and his family
again at this time of need and tragedy.
f
HAPPY BIRTHDAY NORMA
CÁRDENAS
(Mr. CÁRDENAS asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Mr. Speaker, I want
to start off by thanking two individ-
uals who came to this country for a
better life: Luis Sanchez and Elvira
Sanchez.
They were married, and they had
their first daughter, Norma, and some
years later, I was fortunate to fall in
love with her.
Now, some years later, we have been
married, raised four beautiful children.
They look like their mother. We now
have two grandchildren.
Tomorrow is the day that I get to
celebrate that the love of my life was
born. No, I am not going to say how
many years ago. Tomorrow is her
birthday, and here I am in Washington.
I have been doing this job, this ca-
reer, for 22 years, and I must say, some-
times I am lucky enough to be there to
celebrate anniversaries and birthdays
and sometimes I am not, but I just
wanted to take this opportunity to say
happy birthday to the love of my life
and my number one constituent. And,
yes, my grandchildren live in my dis-
trict, so they are my constituents, too.
It is a tough call, but, Norma, you
are my number one constituent. Happy
birthday.
f
MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS
MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. NAPOLITANO) is recog-
nized for 60 minutes as the designee of
the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the subject of
my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, I
bring to the floor a topic very near and
dear to my heart, and I rise today to
recognize the entire month of May as
Mental Health Awareness Month.
I cochair the Congressional Mental
Health Caucus along with my Repub-
lican colleague, Mr. JOHN KATKO from
New York, and we work to educate
Members of Congress and their staff on
the work still needed to expand mental
health access and protections, and also
to reduce the ever-present stigma.
The topic of mental health in Con-
gress has and is building momentum,
and it is spurring action to increase de-
livery of mental health services, some-
thing I have worked to do for over 2
decades.
This year alone, our House Mental
Health Caucus has grown from 47 Mem-
bers of Congress to 92. However, mental
health still affects millions of Ameri-
cans of all ages, genders, races, and re-
mains woefully underfunded and mis-
understood.
Suicide currently plagues our vet-
eran community. Roughly 20 veterans
per day take their own lives, according
to the VA.
A 2005 to 2016 Department of Vet-
erans Affairs’ Suicide Data Report
found that the veteran suicide rate is
1.5 times greater than the nonveteran
population, with over 6,000 veterans
dying by suicide each year.
In the Hispanic community, my own
community, approximately one in ten
individuals with mental illness use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:46 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.031 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3494 May 8, 2019
mental health services from a general
health provider, while only one in 20
receive such services from a mental
health specialist.
Machismo and other cultural ten-
dencies are preventing our loved ones
from being open and honest about what
might be troubling them. The stigma
ranks high.
We must continue to let our loved
ones know that there is absolutely
zero, I reiterate, zero shame in asking
for help and that seeking support is a
sign of strength.
We also have seen that one in four
Latina adolescent children, I say chil-
dren because they are still children, re-
port contemplating suicide, a rate
higher than any other demographic.
The increasing diversity of our coun-
try underlines both the need and the
importance of assessing culturally and
linguistically appropriate services.
The 2018 election focused on
healthcare and the future of the Af-
fordable Care Act, ACA.
One of ACA’s most critical successes
was increasing mental health service
and delivery. Insurance companies for
decades denied coverage for patients
needing mental health services.
We inserted provisions to end this ap-
palling practice and made mental
health an essential part of basic cov-
erage, including screenings and other
preventive services.
Together, we made sure that no
American is discriminated against
when seeking mental health care, and
that mental health and substance
abuse, these disorders, are covered
equal to physical illnesses like diabe-
tes, asthma, high blood pressure, and
other illnesses.
As we head into 2019, these reforms
and the ACA must be strengthened so
more Americans seek the lifesaving
care they need.
We must also continue to look at
what is being done locally to support
access to mental health services.
In 2001, Pacific Clinics, a nonprofit,
and I started a school-based mental
health program with $500,000 seed
money from SAMSHA, Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Ad-
ministration.
The program began in three middle
schools and one high school. The
schools were very reluctant at first, be-
cause of the stigma connected to it and
the fear of being labeled ‘‘crazy
schools.’’
b 1430
We kept pushing forward, and the
program has now grown to 35 schools,
with a waiting list.
The program serves as a model for
H.R. 1109, the Mental Health Services
for Students Act, which would provide
$200 million for 100 school-based mental
health programs nationwide.
Senator TINA SMITH of Minnesota has
also introduced a Senate companion, S.
1122, and we are very grateful for her
support.
We knew that if we started early
with children, we could help them suc-
ceed and save lives. But stigma re-
mains a big barrier preventing many
parents from getting their children the
care they need.
We all need to continue sharing the
message that it is always okay to seek
help. If we address issues early, we can
help students and their families suc-
ceed in and out of the classroom.
The Los Angeles County Board of Su-
pervisors and the County Department
of Mental Health have been instru-
mental in the success of this program.
The Department of Mental Health for
Los Angeles County took on funding
the program when SAMHSA funding
ended in 2009.
Seeing the success of this program,
Supervisors Barger and Hahn, in Janu-
ary 2019, directed the Department of
Mental Health to identify funding and
to develop a countywide plan to pro-
vide school-based mental health serv-
ices. Countywide means to 14 million
people.
In April 2019, the board of supervisors
formally adopted a plan to funding for
pilot sites, to hire additional mental
health professionals, and to develop a
Mental Health First Aid pilot program
that would educate students.
Beyond stigma reduction and edu-
cating loved ones of warning signs and
symptoms, we need to ensure that we
have a reliable workforce to be able to
deliver lifesaving services to all in
need, regardless of their ZIP Code.
There is a national shortage of trained
mental health professionals, and the
California Future Health Workforce
Commission has stated that, without
dramatic policy changes, California
will have 41 percent fewer psychiatrists
and 11 percent fewer psychologists,
marriage and family therapists, clin-
ical counselors, and social workers
than needed by 2030.
Recognizing this, I, along with my
colleague, Mr. KATKO, reintroduced
H.R. 2431, the Mental Health Profes-
sionals Workforce Shortage Loan Re-
payment Act of 2019.
My Mental Health Caucus co-chair is
wonderful in this sense, and I thank
him for that.
This bill would expand the mental
health workforce by providing loan re-
imbursement to mental health profes-
sionals who commit to working in un-
derserved areas.
Our work continues, but it can’t be
limited to this Congress or any other
Congress. I encourage all to get in-
volved, educate yourselves, and share
resources with friends and family. If
you see somebody who has fallen on
hard times, reach out, help them out,
and, if needed, refer them to a mental
health services provider. Together, we
can continue to build a movement and
eventually live in a world where there
is no stigma, or it is very much re-
duced.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New York (Mr. KATKO), my friend.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Mental Health
Awareness Month.
At the outset, I want to thank my
colleague, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, for being a
partner in this and a leader in this
issue for a long time. I am honored to
speak with her on this issue. Many of
my comments today are going to echo
the sentiments that she just spoke here
in Congress, but it bears repeating, in
my own words.
Throughout May, my colleagues and
I will bring attention to the impact of
mental illness on American society, as
well as Congress’ role in addressing
mental healthcare issues facing the
country. It is an honor to collaborate
with my colleagues in the Congres-
sional Mental Health Caucus, including
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, to raise awareness
for mental illness, reduce the stigma
surrounding mental illness, and create
legislation that improves mental
health outcomes for all Americans.
Mental illnesses have a devastating
effect on those struggling to live with
them. This includes changes in mood,
social interactions, sleep patterns, and
eating habits. Sadly, the most extreme
consequences that occur all too often
for mental illness are when individuals
inflict self-injury or take their life.
Here are some statistics that should
stun everybody.
Suicide is the 10th leading cause of
death, and it is the 2nd leading cause of
death among Americans aged 24 and
younger. Let me repeat that. The 10th
leading cause of death for all Ameri-
cans is suicide, and for Americans aged
24 and younger, it is the 2nd leading
cause of death. That is stunning.
Approximately 1.4 million Americans
attempt suicide each year, and over
47,000 Americans lose their life to sui-
cide each and every year.
The United States has 3,700 suicide
attempts daily and 129 suicide deaths
per day. This equates to one suicide
every 12 minutes. By the time I finish
this speech, statistics will have it that
another person will have taken their
life. That should wake people up in this
country.
Not only does suicide have severe
emotional costs on families and com-
munities, it also has a huge cost to our
economy. It is estimated that suicide
and self-injury reduce the economic
output of the United States by nearly
$70 billion a year.
The suicide epidemic is responsible
for nearly the same amount of deaths
in the United States as another major
crisis, one that gets far more atten-
tion, and rightfully so, that being the
opioid epidemic. It is estimated that
opioids were the cause of 47,600 deaths
in America last year, only a few hun-
dred more than suicide.
While solving the opioid crisis has re-
ceived ample funding and attention,
and rightfully so, reducing suicide and
improving mental health treatment de-
serves the same recognition. We fall far
short of that now, far short of that.
To give you an example, the Zika
virus came about in this country, and,
of course, it was a terrible virus with
terrible consequences. Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.032 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3495
May 8, 2019
promptly enacted $1.6 billion to address
it. A total of one person died from the
Zika virus. Of course, there were many
other health problems that were attrib-
uted to it.
Again, the $1.6 billion that was ap-
propriated was rightfully so. Nowhere
near that much is appropriated for
mental health and suicide research on
a yearly basis. The National Institutes
of Health needs the money.
Congress has a responsibility to as-
sist individuals experiencing mental
health challenges through effective
legislation and research subsidies. Con-
gress should advance policies that in-
crease America’s access to mental
healthcare treatment as a mechanism
for preventing self-harm incidents and
suicide attempts.
Just one-third of Americans with
mental illness receive treatment—just
one-third. Our country is in desperate
need of additional trained therapists,
psychologists, and counselors. This
lack of access can be partly attributed
to a shortage of mental healthcare pro-
fessionals in certain communities.
In order to establish a more reliable
supply of mental healthcare profes-
sionals, Congresswoman GRACE NAPOLI-
TANO and I recently introduced the
Mental Health Professionals Workforce
Shortage Loan Repayment Act of 2019.
Our bill delivers professionals to
areas that require mental healthcare
experts the most by forgiving their sec-
ondary education student loans. It in-
vests in bolstering our mental health
workforce, while expanding treatment
for Americans with mental illness.
I am proud to stand by my colleague
across the aisle, GRACE NAPOLITANO, in
pushing this most important bill.
Americans across the country, re-
gardless of age, social status, or back-
ground, are affected by mental illness.
Mental Health Awareness Month serves
as an opportunity for any of my con-
gressional colleagues, Republican or
Democrat, to join the conversation.
I can’t think of a more bipartisan ac-
tion than what we are talking about
today. Together—together—we can im-
prove mental health outcomes for
Americans across the country by en-
gaging in thoughtful discussion and
crafting efficient policies.
Finally, it is an honor, once again, to
co-chair the Congressional Mental
Health Caucus with Congresswoman
NAPOLITANO. I am grateful for her con-
tinued leadership, her commitment to
this issue, her stewardship, and her
mentorship to me on it, as well.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, it
is wonderful to hear all the work that
Mr. KATKO has done on mental health.
He has been exceptional in this field,
and I thank him for all his support.
Working together is a pleasure.
What is mental health? If somebody
says you belong in a crazy house, not
so. It could be a child in school, a mid-
dle school, suffering the effects of bul-
lying, or somebody who has had trau-
ma, a shooting or something that af-
fects them, and it won’t go away and it
festers when they grow older.
Forty percent of the incarcerated
need mental health services. Foster
children, who are unaware of what
their next step will be after they are
emancipated, need mental health sup-
port.
That can just go on and on. It is
something that is needed. Somehow,
we are not doing our job.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
NO PERSON IS ABOVE THE LAW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN) for
30 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise. I rise, Mr. Speaker, be-
cause I love my country. I love what it
stands for.
Mr. Speaker, I am a person who sings
the national anthem. I salute the flag.
But I also respect those who, as a mat-
ter of principle, choose not to do as I.
I love my country.
I believe that one of the hallmarks of
our justice system is the concept that
no person is above the law—no person.
It doesn’t matter where you were born;
it doesn’t matter where you happen to
be in life; it doesn’t matter what office
you happen to hold. No person is above
the law.
This is something that people revere
us for the world over, the belief that in
this country you will not be above the
law. But they also understand that, in
doing this, no person will be beneath
the law. The law applies equally to all
in the United States of America.
I believe in this concept to the extent
that I will stand alone and say that the
President of the United States is not to
be above the law. And I will stand
alone because, on some things, it is
better to stand alone than not stand at
all.
So I will stand alone and say to the
world that, in this country, wherein we
indicate in the Pledge of Allegiance
liberty and justice for all, in this coun-
try, wherein we recognize that all per-
sons are created equal and endowed by
their creator with certain inalienable
rights, in this country, no person is
above the law.
When it comes to the law as it re-
lates to the President of the United
States of America, the place where the
President is brought before the bar of
justice is this House of Representa-
tives. This is the place where the law
and the President will come together.
And in this place, because of the Con-
stitution of the United States of Amer-
ica, Article II, Section 4, if a President
commits impeachable acts, the Presi-
dent is brought before this bar of jus-
tice—not brought here in person, but
those acts are called to the attention
of the House of Representatives.
Each Member of the House can do so,
and in so doing, each Member can have
what is called a privileged resolution
presented. When this resolution is pre-
sented, a President who is believed to
have committed an impeachable act
can be brought before this House, this
bar of justice. Those acts can be voted
upon.
b 1445
This is the only place on the planet
Earth where a President of the United
States can be brought to justice while
in office, in this House of Representa-
tives.
This is why I have stood my ground.
I have said that this President, who has
committed impeachable acts, must be
brought before the House of Represent-
atives for his impeachable acts, his im-
peachable behavior.
I marvel at those who would say that
the President has done things that
merit his impeachment but would then
go on to say, ‘‘But I don’t think we
should impeach him.’’
They will say they don’t think so be-
cause if we do so, the President won’t
be convicted in the Senate.
The Constitution of the United
States of America does not require a
conviction in the Senate before there is
impeachment in the House. The House
acts first, and then the Senate is given
the opportunity to give its response.
In this House of Representatives, it is
imperative that we let the world know
because the world is watching. The
world is watching the United States of
America, which means it is really
watching this House of Representa-
tives.
They want to see if we are going to
allow a President who has committed
impeachable acts—they want to see if
we are going to allow him to escape the
long arm of the law. They want to see
whether or not we truly believe that no
one is above the law, and that includes
the President of the United States of
America.
We must act.
Mr. Mueller has taken up the cause.
We outsourced the investigation to the
executive branch of the government,
which was not the appropriate thing to
do. The Framers of the Constitution
never intended that the agents of the
executive branch investigate the chief
executive officer, which would be the
President, for impeachment purposes.
That was never contemplated.
They gave us Article II, Section 4, so
that we, the Members of this august
body, would take up our duty, our re-
sponsibility, and our obligation.
They gave us the way. The question
is, do we have the will?
Mr. Mueller has done his job. He has
submitted to us his report. That report
alone is enough for us to bring Articles
of Impeachment.
That report is based upon persons
giving statements that were subject to
the penalty of perjury if they should
give untruthful statements.
It is clearly a roadmap to impeach-
ment. Mr. Mueller has so much as
said—not in these exacts words, but
when you understand the import of his
language, he has so much as said that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.035 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3496 May 8, 2019
if he could bring the President to jus-
tice, he would.
But they have a rule. They have a
mandate in the Justice Department
that they will not indict a sitting
President. Whether you agree with
that or not, that is the rule that Mr.
Mueller believes in, and they followed
it.
He went on to say that he is not ex-
onerating the President by not bring-
ing the President before the bar of jus-
tice. He is simply saying to us: I have
done what I am allowed to do. Now,
Congress, it is up to you. I have given
you what I believe is the evidence. You
take this evidence and do with it what
you believe to be appropriate.
If Congress takes this evidence and
simply sits on it, if we engage in the
paralysis of analysis—a phrase that I
borrow from Dr. Martin Luther King—
if we investigate until someone will
eventually say, ‘‘Well, it is too late to
go on with impeachment. It is too late
now. It will look political. Let’s just
wait until the next election,’’ that is
not what the Framers of the Constitu-
tion intended. They intended for us to
have the will to follow the way that
they accorded us in the Constitution.
We made it clear that we wanted to
wait on the Mueller report. Well, we
waited. Now there are persons who are
saying let’s wait until the next elec-
tion.
I refuse to wait until the next elec-
tion. I refuse to send the world a mes-
sage that, as a Member of this body, I
allowed the President to go unchecked,
that I did not bring Articles of Im-
peachment.
Mr. President, I want you to know
that the hand of justice awaits you. I
want you to know that this body is
going to take up impeachment.
And here is why: If we fail to do so,
we will allow the President, who has
committed impeachable acts, to go out
and market himself as a person who
has been vindicated by our inaction. He
will say to the world: If I committed an
impeachable act, they surely would
have brought impeachment before the
House of Representatives.
After all, one party has more than
enough Members to bring impeachment
before the House without the help of
another party. He will tell the world
that there was no collusion, and he did
nothing that would merit impeach-
ment.
This is what he would say. He would
have that liberty. Even if he doesn’t
say it, he would have the liberty. My
guess is that he would. That is what I
believe.
We must bring impeachment before
this body so as not to allow a President
who has done things worthy of im-
peachment to go out and contend that
he is not subject to impeachment and
that he should be considered a person
who has been vindicated by our inac-
tion.
What are some of the things that the
President has done that would merit
his impeachment? Let’s just start with
Mr. Mueller’s report. I won’t go
through everything in its entirety.
He lists some 10 possibilities. I am
just going to mention trying as best as
he could to get people to have the in-
vestigation terminated by having the
person who is performing the investiga-
tion fired, having that person resign,
having that person cease and desist.
The President started this with Mr.
Comey when Mr. Comey was inves-
tigating the President’s association, by
and through his campaign, with Rus-
sia, interference in our elections.
This kind of thing is something that
we would want to have investigated.
That was the genesis of it.
Then we can move forward to the lat-
est rendition that Mr. Mueller has
given us as it relates to the counsel to
the President and his desire to have
the counsel have word given to certain
parties that the President desires—
probably not say that, but that was his
desire—to have the lawyer who was in-
vestigating, Mr. Mueller, removed.
This is not acceptable. This is ob-
struction. Obstruction takes place
when you attempt to do such a thing.
There are other things in between. As
important as these are, I believe sepa-
rating babies from their mothers as a
policy is impeachable when you add it
to the many other things that he has
done with reference to people of color.
To say that the countries in Africa
are s-hole countries and then develop
policies, immigration policies, if you
will, that address immigration from
these countries, you are putting your
bigotry into policy.
To say that there were some nice
people among the racists, the bigots,
the xenophobes, the Islamophobes, the
homophobes, the Klansmen, the neo-
Nazis who marched in Charlottesville
where a person lost her life, where oth-
ers were injured, to say that there were
some very fine people among them,
very, very nice people, if you will,
among them, if I said that, I assure you
there would be a penalty for my doing
so. If any Member of Congress said
such a thing, there would be a penalty
for doing so.
I am not above the law. Members of
Congress are not above the law. And
the President cannot be above the law.
To say this gives these persons who
were screaming ‘‘blood and soil,’’ and,
‘‘Jews will not replace us,’’ to say that
we will not take up this cause in this
House is to say that the President is
above the law when we know if one of
our Members did it, we would take up
this cause in the House of Representa-
tives.
The President cannot be above the
law. No Member of this House can be
above the law. No judge can be above
the law. No police officer can be above
the law. The law applies equally to all.
The President has engaged in these
invidious acts, harmful acts, harmful
to society, telling members of the con-
stabulary, the police, that when you
have persons in your custody, you
don’t have to be nice to them.
We know about how many persons
have been mishandled in the hands of
the police. Not all police do this, but
some have. In fact, many have gone to
jail. That doesn’t mean all law enforce-
ment officers are bad. It just means
that those who did it are, and we don’t
want to encourage others to do such a
thing.
The President has committed im-
peachable acts. These impeachable acts
can be brought to this House, and they
must be brought before the House of
Representatives.
Right now, the President is commit-
ting obstruction by causing persons
who should appear before Congress’
various committees—by doing all that
he can to cause them not to appear. He
is continuing to obstruct.
He does not want congressional com-
mittees to perform their lawful duties,
the duties that have been accorded
them. He is standing in the way,
thwarting as much as he can. He wants
to thwart subpoenas. He wants to make
impotent the subpoena power of the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica.
This is a continuation of his obstruc-
tion. His obstruction has to be
checked. This is where it is checked.
There is currently, as I stand and
speak to you, a constitutional crisis
taking place. There is a standoff be-
tween the executive branch, wherein
the President is at the helm, and the
House of Representatives. A standoff
exists, as I speak to you.
This is a constitutional crisis. The
President is creating this constitu-
tional crisis.
The President ought to be brought
before the bar of justice for obstruct-
ing, for what he is doing right now to
create this constitutional crisis.
Don’t let anybody kid you. I have
heard persons on these news programs
say that somebody has said that there
is a constitutional crisis. Well, I am
that somebody. I have said it.
Then they go on to say something
that would minimize the fact that
there is a crisis.
They will be saying that there is a
crisis soon. The very persons who are
saying now, ‘‘Well, don’t worry about
that,’’ they will be saying it soon be-
cause the crisis is only going to inten-
sify under this President.
They will be saying there is a con-
stitutional crisis. It is just a matter of
time. When they say it, somehow, it is
going to have greater legitimacy than
it does now when I am saying it.
I believe that we must speak truth to
power. I didn’t come to Congress to do
this. It is not my desire to be the ca-
nary in the coal mine. It is not my de-
sire to take on the President of the
United States, the most powerful per-
son in the world.
I do it because I love my country. I
do it because we cannot allow a reck-
less, ruthless, lawless President to re-
main in office. He has to be impeached.
I do it because I believe that we can-
not allow political expediency to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.037 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3497
May 8, 2019
trump the moral imperative to do that
which is right.
I do it because we have to make these
talking points that we have an action
item. That action item is to bring the
President before the bar of justice.
Mr. Speaker, I love my country. I
promise those who believe as I do that
you will see the President have his day
in court right here in the Congress of
the United States of America, where
the Framers of the Constitution in-
tended that we hear the calls and take
a vote.
We will all have to vote. I don’t lobby
people. I simply say, ‘‘Vote your con-
science.’’
But I do know this: I believe that his-
tory is not going to be kind to us if we
take no action. We must act. I will act.
I love my country. For this reason, I
would do so.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE ACTIONS OF THE GOVERN-
MENT OF SYRIA—MESSAGE
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–
30)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
actions of the Government of Syria de-
clared in Executive Order 13338 of May
11, 2004—as modified in scope and relied
upon for additional steps taken in Ex-
ecutive Order 13399 of April 25, 2006, Ex-
ecutive Order 13460 of February 13, 2008,
Executive Order 13572 of April 29, 2011,
Executive Order 13573 of May 18, 2011,
Executive Order 13582 of August 17,
2011, Executive Order 13606 of April 22,
2012, and Executive Order 13608 of May
1, 2012—is to continue in effect beyond
May 11, 2019.
The regime’s brutal war on the Syr-
ian people, who have been calling for
freedom and a representative govern-
ment, not only endangers the Syrian
people themselves, but also generates
instability throughout the region. The
Syrian regime’s actions and policies,
including pursuing and using chemical
weapons, supporting terrorist organiza-
tions, and obstructing the Lebanese
government’s ability to function effec-
tively continue to foster the rise of ex-
tremism and sectarianism and pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security, foreign policy,
and economy of the United States. For
these reasons, I have determined that
it is necessary to continue in effect the
national emergency declared with re-
spect to this threat and to maintain in
force the sanctions to address this na-
tional emergency.
In addition, the United States con-
demns the Assad regime’s use of brutal
violence and human rights abuses and
calls on the Assad regime to stop its
violent war, uphold existing ceasefires,
enable the delivery of humanitarian as-
sistance, and negotiate a political tran-
sition in Syria that will forge a cred-
ible path to a future of greater free-
dom, democracy, opportunity, and jus-
tice. The United States will consider
changes in the composition, policies,
and actions of the Government of Syria
in determining whether to continue or
terminate this national emergency in
the future.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
f
FURTHER MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT
A further message in writing from
the President of the United States was
communicated to the House by Ms.
Mariel Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
b 1500
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUB-
LIC—MESSAGE FROM THE PRESI-
DENT OF THE UNITED STATES
(H. DOC. NO. 116–31)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13667 of May 12, 2014, with respect
to the Central African Republic is to
continue in effect beyond May 12, 2019.
The situation in and in relation to
the Central African Republic, which
has been marked by a breakdown of
law and order, intersectarian tension,
widespread violence and atrocities, and
the pervasive, often forced recruitment
and use of child soldiers, threatens the
peace, security, or stability of the Cen-
tral African Republic and the neigh-
boring states, and continues to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. Therefore, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13667 with re-
spect to the Central African Republic.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
f
INTENT TO DESIGNATE BRAZIL AS
A MAJOR NON-NATO ALLY—MES-
SAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 116–32)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and referred to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 517 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 2321k), I am pro-
viding notice of my intent to designate
Brazil as a Major Non-NATO Ally.
I am making this designation in rec-
ognition of the Government of Brazil’s
recent commitments to increase de-
fense cooperation with the United
States, and in recognition of our own
national interest in deepening our de-
fense coordination with Brazil.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
f
IMPOSING SANCTIONS WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE IRON, STEEL,
ALUMINUM, AND COPPER SEC-
TORS OF IRAN—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–33)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), I hereby report
that I have issued an Executive Order
(the ‘‘order’’) with respect to Iran that
takes additional steps with respect to
the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995,
and to supplement the authorities pro-
vided in the Iran Freedom and Counter-
Proliferation Act of 2012 (subtitle D of
title XII of Public Law 112–239).
The order takes steps to deny Iran
revenue, including revenue derived
from the export of products from Iran’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08MY7.038 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3498 May 8, 2019
iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sec-
tors, that may be used to provide fund-
ing and support for the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, terrorist
groups and networks, campaigns of re-
gional aggression, and military expan-
sion.
The order blocks the property and in-
terests in property of persons deter-
mined by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State:
∑ to be operating in the iron, steel,
aluminum, or copper sector of Iran, or
to be a person that owns, controls, or
operates an entity that is part of the
iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector
of Iran;
∑ to have knowingly engaged, on or
after the date of the order, in a signifi-
cant transaction for the sale, supply,
or transfer to Iran of significant goods
or services used in connection with the
iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sec-
tors of Iran;
∑ to have knowingly engaged, on or
after the date of the order, in a signifi-
cant transaction for the purchase, ac-
quisition, sale, transport, or marketing
of iron, iron products, aluminum, alu-
minum products, steel, steel products,
copper, or copper products from Iran;
∑ to have materially assisted, spon-
sored, or provided financial, material,
or technological support for, or goods
or services in support of, any person
whose property and interests in prop-
erty are blocked pursuant to the order;
or
∑ to be owned or controlled by, or to
have acted or purported to act for or on
behalf of, directly or indirectly, any
person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to the
order.
The order also authorizes the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, to impose
correspondent and payable-through ac-
count-related sanctions on a foreign fi-
nancial institution upon determining
the foreign financial institution has,
on or after the date of the order, know-
ingly conducted or facilitated a signifi-
cant financial transaction:
∑ for the sale, supply, or transfer to
Iran of significant goods or services
used in connection with the iron, steel,
aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
∑ for the purchase, acquisition, sale,
transport, or marketing of iron, iron
products, aluminum, aluminum prod-
ucts, steel, steel products, copper, or
copper products from Iran; or
∑ for or on behalf of any persons
whose property and interests in prop-
erty are blocked pursuant to the order.
I have delegated to the Secretary of
the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the authority to
take such actions, including adopting
rules and regulations, to employ all
powers granted to the President by
IEEPA as may be necessary to imple-
ment the order.
I am enclosing a copy of the order I
have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 3 o’clock and 7 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Thursday,
May 9, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morning-hour
debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1328, the
ACCESS BROADBAND Act, would
have no significant effect on direct
spending or revenues, and therefore,
the budgetary effects of such bill are
estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
917. A letter from the Deputy Secretary,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
transmitting the Commission’s final rule —
Privacy of Consumer Financial Information-
Amendment To Conform Regulations to the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act (RIN: 3038-AE80) received May 2, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
918. A letter from the Under Secretary, Ac-
quisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting the Open Burn Pit re-
port, pursuant to Public Law 115-232, Sec.
355(a); (132 Stat. 1731); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
919. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Channel Lineup Requirements — Sec-
tions 76.1705 and 76.1700(a)(4) [MB Docket No.:
18-92]; Modernization of Media Regulation
Initiative [MB Docket No.: 17-105] received
April 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
920. A letter from the Division Chief,
Broadband Division, Wireless Telecommuni-
cations Bureau, Federal Communications
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rule — Use of Spectrum Bands Above 24
GHz For Mobile Radio Services [GN Docket
No.: 14-177] received April 30, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
921. A letter from the Assistant Director
for Regulatory Affairs, Office of Foreign As-
sets Control, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Foreign Interference in U.S. Elections Sanc-
tions Regulations received May 3, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
922. A letter from the Senior Director, Gov-
ernment Affairs, National Railroad Pas-
senger Corporation, transmitting Amtrak’s
audited Consolidated Financial Statements
for the years ended September 30, 2018 and
2017; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
923. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting a notifica-
tion of a vacancy and a designation of acting
officer, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public
Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
924. A letter from the Director, Office of In-
formation Policy, Department of Justice,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Department of Justice Freedom of Informa-
tion Act Regulations [Docket No.: OAG 155;
A.G. Order No.: 4442-2019] (RIN: 1105-AB51) re-
ceived May 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
925. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Administration and Management, Com-
petitive Sourcing Official, Department of
Labor, transmitting the Department’s 2017
Inventory of Inherently Governmental Ac-
tivities and of Commercial Activities, pursu-
ant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note; Public Law 105-270,
Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat. 2382); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
926. A letter from the Deputy Assistant Ad-
ministrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s interim rule — International Fish-
eries; Western and Central Pacific Fisheries
for Highly Migratory Species; Bigeye Tuna
Catch Limits in Longline Fisheries for 2017
[Docket No.: 170329334-7665-01] (RIN: 0648-
BG78) received May 2, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
927. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Less Than 60 Feet (18.3 Me-
ters) Length Overall Using Jig or Hook-and-
Line Gear in the Bogoslof Pacific Cod Ex-
emption Area in the Bering Sea and Aleutian
Islands Management Area [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG166) received
May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
928. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; North Atlantic Swordfish Fishery
[Docket No.: 120627194-3657-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG167) received May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
929. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; Snapper-
Grouper Resources of the South Atlantic;
2018-2019 Recreational Fishing Season for
Black Sea Bass [Docket No.: 130403320-4891-
02] (RIN: 0648-XG056) received May 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
930. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Using Trawl Gear in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands Management
Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02] (RIN:
0648-XG147) received May 3, 2019, pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.016 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3499
May 8, 2019
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
931. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone off Alaska; Sablefish in the Cen-
tral Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG159) received May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
932. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Atlantic Herring Fishery; 2018
River Herring and Shad Catch Cap Reached
for Midwater Trawl Vessels in the Cape Cod
Catch Cap Area [Docket No.: 151215999-6960-
02] (RIN: 0648-XG691) received May 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
933. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 620 in
the Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 170816769-
8162-02] (RIN: 0648-XG973) received May 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
934. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Inseason Adjustment
to the 2019 Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands
Pollock, Atka Mackerel, and Pacific Cod
Total Allowable Catch Amounts [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG684) received
May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
935. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Greater Than or Equal to 50
Feet Length Overall Using Hook-and-Line
Gear in the Central Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02]
(RIN: 0648-XF895) received May 3, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
936. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — 2018-2019 Commercial Trip
Limit Reduction for Spanish Mackerel in the
Atlantic Southern Zone [Docket No.:
140819687-5583-02] (RIN: 0648-XG697) received
May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
937. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 150121066-5717-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG099) received May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
938. A letter from the Chief, Fiscal and
Contract Law Unit, FBI, Department of Jus-
tice, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act Regula-
tions (RIN: 1110-AA32) received May 2, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
939. A letter from the Deputy Assistant At-
torney General, Office of Legal Policy, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Civil Monetary Pen-
alties Inflation Adjustment [Docket No.:
OAG 148; AG Order No.: 4424-2019] received
May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
940. A letter from the Acting Secretary of
the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture,
Department of the Interior and Department
of Agriculture, transmitting proposed draft
bills and section-by-section analyses for the
Wildfire Risk Reduction and Vegetation Res-
toration Activities Act, the Forest and
Rangeland Catastrophic Event and Infra-
structure Management Improvement Act,
and the Sage-Grouse and Mule Deer Habitat
Conservation and Restoration Act; jointly to
the Committees on Agriculture and Natural
Resources.
941. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Management and Budget, Executive
Office of the President, transmitting a set of
legislative proposals to help streamline and
improve the agility and efficiency of federal
acquisition processes; jointly to the Commit-
tees on Oversight and Reform and Armed
Services.
942. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Legislative Affairs, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting twelve legisla-
tive proposals that support the President’s
Fiscal Year 2020 Budget request for the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security; jointly to
the Committees on Homeland Security,
Transportation and Infrastructure, the Judi-
ciary, Ways and Means, and Financial Serv-
ices.
943. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Legislative Affairs, Department of Defense,
transmitting additional legislative proposals
that the Department of Defense requests be
enacted during the first session of the 116th
Congress; jointly to the Committees on
Armed Services, Oversight and Reform,
Transportation and Infrastructure, House
Administration, Foreign Affairs, Small Busi-
ness, Financial Services, the Judiciary, Edu-
cation and Labor, Veterans’ Affairs, and
Ways and Means.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. COOPER, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. DEAN,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
DOGGETT, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GOLD-
EN, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. HOYER, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILMER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MENG, Ms. MOORE, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and Ms. FUDGE):
H.R. 2569. A bill to provide emergency as-
sistance to States, territories, Tribal na-
tions, and local areas affected by the opioid
epidemic and to make financial assistance
available to States, territories, Tribal na-
tions, local areas, and public or private non-
profit entities to provide for the develop-
ment, organization, coordination, and oper-
ation of more effective and cost efficient sys-
tems for the delivery of essential services to
individuals with substance use disorder and
their families; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Natural Resources, and the Judi-
ciary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 2570. A bill to ensure that polluters
pay ongoing water treatment costs associ-
ated with contamination from
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. CARTER of
Texas, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. MCCLINTOCK,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio,
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. PALAZZO,
Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. LUCAS, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. PERRY, Mr.
COLE, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. HUDSON, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. BUCK, Mr.
MASSIE, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. CRAWFORD,
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, Mr. TIMMONS, Ms. CHENEY,
Mr. LONG, Mr. YOHO, Mr. PALMER, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
RATCLIFFE, and Mr. DUNN):
H.R. 2571. A bill to preserve and protect the
free choice of individual employees to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, or to re-
frain from such activities; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Mr.
STIVERS):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08MY7.000 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3500 May 8, 2019
H.R. 2572. A bill to amend the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act to clarify the definition
of a deposit broker, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. ABRAHAM,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. MARCH-
ANT, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Mr. DESJARLAIS):
H.R. 2573. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home health
payment reforms under the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Ways and Means,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. SABLAN, and Ms.
ADAMS):
H.R. 2574. A bill to amend title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 to restore the right
to individual civil actions in cases involving
disparate impact, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself and
Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 2575. A bill to authorize an AI Center
of Excellence within the General Services
Administration, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2576. A bill to require a report on ex-
penditures for contracts for advertising serv-
ices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. KILDEE, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 2577. A bill to amend the Emergency
Planning and Community Right-To-Know
Act of 1986 to include per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances on the Toxics Re-
lease Inventory, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself and Mr.
MCHENRY):
H.R. 2578. A bill to reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. POCAN,
and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 2579. A bill to modify the require-
ments applicable to locatable minerals on
public domain lands, consistent with the
principles of self-initiation of mining claims,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 2580. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to deem drugs or other sub-
stances that act as mu opioid receptor
agonists to be in schedule I, subject to excep-
tions for substances intended for legitimate
medical or research use, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. SHERMAN,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. COHEN,
and Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 2581. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish direct care
registered nurse-to-patient staffing ratio re-
quirements in hospitals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2582. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to require the Attorney Gen-
eral to make procurement quotas for opioid
analgesics publicly available, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri):
H.R. 2583. A bill to designate Union Station
in Washington, DC, as ‘‘Harry S. Truman
Union Station’’; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself and Mr.
BURGESS):
H.R. 2584. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 respecting the scor-
ing of preventive health savings; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. EVANS (for himself, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. NORTON, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. DEAN, Ms. HOULAHAN,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Ms. MENG, Mr. VEASEY, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 2585. A bill to establish a Federal Ad-
visory Council to Support Victims of Gun Vi-
olence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and
Mr. CONNOLLY):
H.R. 2586. A bill to require the collection of
voluntary feedback on services provided by
agencies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 2587. A bill to require the Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs to develop stand-
ards for a ‘‘Reef Safe’’ label for sunscreen; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 2588. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to conduct a study on the effects of
oxybenzone and octinoxate on the environ-
ment and public health, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Natural Resources, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2589. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a homeland
intelligence doctrine for the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN):
H.R. 2590. A bill to require a Department of
Homeland Security overseas personnel en-
hancement plan, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mrs.
DINGELL, and Mr. KILDEE):
H.R. 2591. A bill to prohibit the waste in-
cineration of per- and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. DUFFY,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. PHILLIPS,
Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. PETERS, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. BACON, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. LUJÁN,
and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio):
H.R. 2592. A bill to enhance transparency
and accountability for online political adver-
tisements by requiring those who purchase
and publish such ads to disclose information
about the advertisements to the public, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 2593. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to collect data and issue a re-
port on the opportunity zone tax incentives
enacted by the 2017 tax reform legislation,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 2594. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for payments
for certain rural health clinic and Federally
qualified health center services furnished to
hospice patients under the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself and
Mrs. BEATTY):
H.R. 2595. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to increase the income
limit of the simplified needs test; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself and Mr. PAPPAS):
H.R. 2596. A bill to amend the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act with respect to manu-
facturing and processing notices for per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 2597. A bill to amend the Public Util-
ity Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to estab-
lish a market-oriented standard for clean
electric energy generation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself and
Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 2598. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to allow members of the Armed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08MY7.100 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3501
May 8, 2019
Forces to use Department of Defense tuition
assistance to pay for education or training
at lower or lateral degree levels; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Mr. DEUTCH, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 2599. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to require State edu-
cational agencies and tribal educational
agencies receiving funds under section 520A
of such Act to establish and implement a
school-based student suicide awareness and
prevention training policy and school threat
assessment team policy, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. DEAN (for herself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr.
KHANNA):
H.R. 2600. A bill to regulate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances under the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia):
H.R. 2601. A bill to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to establish the Of-
fice of Rural Telecommunications, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. PRESSLEY (for herself, Ms.
ADAMS, and Ms. UNDERWOOD):
H.R. 2602. A bill to amend titles XIX and
XXI of the Social Security Act to improve
Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insur-
ance Program for low-income mothers; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 2603. A bill to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to ensure that the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands is eligible
for certain Small Business Administration
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 2604. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to eliminate the marriage
penalty in the income tax rate brackets; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. STEVENS (for herself, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, and
Mr. KHANNA):
H.R. 2605. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to issue a final rule adding as a class
all perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances with at least one fully fluorinated
carbon atom to the list of hazardous air pol-
lutants under section 112(b) of the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7412(b)), and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 2606. A bill to make demonstration
grants to eligible local educational agencies
or consortia of eligible local educational
agencies for the purpose of increasing the
numbers of school nurses in public elemen-
tary schools and secondary schools; to the
Committee on Education and Labor, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Utah, Ms. CHENEY, Mr.
COOK, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. HUN-
TER, Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. STEWART, Mr. TIPTON,
Mr. WALDEN, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
FULCHER, and Mr. CURTIS):
H.R. 2607. A bill to expedite under the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and
improve forest management activities on
National Forest System lands, on public
lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of
Land Management, and on Tribal lands to re-
turn resilience to overgrown, fire-prone for-
ested lands, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, and in addition
to the Committee on Natural Resources, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. COHEN, and Mr.
SERRANO):
H.J. Res. 57. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States relating to the authority of
Congress and the States to regulate con-
tributions and expenditures in political cam-
paigns and to enact public financing systems
for such campaigns; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. KILMER, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. CROW, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. CORREA, Mr. VELA,
Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. CASE,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Mr. ROUDA, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms.
WILD, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
and Mr. MOULTON):
H. Res. 360. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of May 5,
2019, through May 11, 2019, as ‘‘National
Small Business Week’’ to honor the vital
role of small business and the passion of en-
trepreneurs in the United States; to the
Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. HARDER of California (for him-
self and Ms. STEFANIK):
H. Res. 361. A resolution recognizing the
importance of paying tribute to those indi-
viduals who have faithfully served and re-
tired from the Armed Forces of the United
States, supporting the goals and ideals of
Military Retiree Appreciation Day, and en-
couraging the people of the United States to
honor the past and continued service of mili-
tary retirees to their local communities and
the United States; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. VEASEY:
H. Res. 362. A resolution expressing support
for designation of May 2019 as ‘‘Health and
Fitness Month’’; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
46. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota, relative to House Joint Resolution
1004, rescinding previous requests that the
Congress of the United States call a conven-
tion of the states to propose amendments to
the Constitution of the United States; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
47. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of South Dakota, relative to House
Joint Resolution 1004, rescinding previous re-
quests that the Congress of the United
States call a convention of the states to pro-
pose amendments to the Constitution of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
48. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of North Dakota, relative to House
Concurrent Resolution No. 3059, urging Con-
gress to pass, and President Donald Trump
to sign, House Resolution 1911, also known as
the SFC Brian Woods Gold Star and Military
Survivors Act; jointly to the Committees on
Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2569.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power To . . . provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 2570.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 2571.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 2572.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 2573.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 2574.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 2575.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2576.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08MY7.100 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3502 May 8, 2019
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 2577.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 2578.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2579.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 2580.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 2581.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2582.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H.R. 2583.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2584.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
By Mr. EVANS:
H.R. 2585.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the United States Constitution
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 2586.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 2587.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United State Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 2588.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United State Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2589.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18—To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 2590.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution for
the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States or in any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 2591.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 2592.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 2593.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 2594.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 2595.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 2596.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8—The Congress shall
have the Power to lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defence and
general Welfare of the United States; but all
Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States;
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 2597.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1; Section 8
By Mr. MARCHANT:
H.R. 2598.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 14 provides Con-
gress with the power to make rules for the
government and regulation of the land and
naval forces.
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 2599.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 2600.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the powers
granted to the Congress by Article I, section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. PETERSON:
H.R. 2601.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 2602.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Commerce Clause as stipulated in Ar-
ticle I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 2603.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 2604.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Ms. STEVENS:
H.R. 2605.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 2606.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 2607.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. SCHIFF:
H.J. Res. 57.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.018 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3503
May 8, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 117: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 162: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 203: Mr. CHABOT and Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 249: Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. NORTON, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. CRIST,
and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 277: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 341: Mr. MOULTON and Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 383: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 467: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mrs.
WAGNER.
H.R. 479: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 500: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, Ms. OMAR, Mr. MCGOVERN, and
Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 530: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 579: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 580: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 613: Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. GUEST, and Mr.
WESTERMAN.
H.R. 668: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 677: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 692: Mr. HUNTER and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 693: Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. CARSON of In-
diana, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, and Mr.
MCEACHIN.
H.R. 713: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 732: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 832: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 838: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. OLSON, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr.
MCHENRY.
H.R. 849: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 864: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 874: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 935: Mr. COMER, Mr. PASCRELL, and
Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 943: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 965: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1002: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H.R. 1010: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 1023: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1042: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1043: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. SOTO,
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, and Mr. BRIN-
DISI.
H.R. 1049: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1058: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 1073: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1139: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. STIVERS,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. HIMES, Mr. SCHIFF, and Ms.
HILL of California.
H.R. 1154: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. BRINDISI, and Mr.
HIMES.
H.R. 1155: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Ms. SCANLON, and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1163: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mr.
LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 1210: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Ms.
SCHRIER.
H.R. 1223: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 1225: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. TONKO, Mr. KIM, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
WOODALL, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, and
Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1236: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1237: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1243: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1256: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1327: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. HOLDING, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. CORREA, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr.
LAHOOD.
H.R. 1348: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1400: Mr. CORREA and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1407: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1411: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1450: Ms. WEXTON, Mr. DESAULNIER,
and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1529: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1534: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. BROWN of
Maryland.
H.R. 1554: Mr. SOTO and Mr. RICE of South
Carolina.
H.R. 1564: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ and Ms.
CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1568: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr.
LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1584: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1595: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1629: Ms. STEVENS, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. GOODEN, and
Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1631: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. GARAMENDI, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1674: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1709: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. BERA, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1762: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 1824: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1830: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1878: Mr. COOPER, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. PETERS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. WALDEN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
WEXTON, and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 1882: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1932: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1945: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Ms.
MENG.
H.R. 1950: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1953: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1980: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1984: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1992: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1996: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2000: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2006: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2076: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2081: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 2099: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2117: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2124: Mr. COOK and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 2134: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2135: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 2142: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2148: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. MENG, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. COX of California, and Mr. KIL-
DEE.
H.R. 2156: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2159: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 2169: Mr. GREEN of Texas and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2187: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2196: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 2208: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 2213: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. SLOTKIN,
and Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 2218: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2231: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. MOORE,
Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. VEASEY,
Ms. BASS, Ms. ADAMS, and Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois.
H.R. 2275: Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 2291: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2331: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 2382: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mrs. FLETCHER, and Mr. PAS-
CRELL.
H.R. 2398: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 2399: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 2417: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2422: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 2427: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2431: Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. TONKO, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2433: Ms. STEFANIK, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2440: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CARBAJAL, and
Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 2476: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. DEUTCH, and
Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 2480: Ms. SHALALA and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada.
H.R. 2481: Mr. SABLAN, Mr. TAKANO, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. STANTON, Mr. BRADY, Mr.
OLSON, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Ms. HILL of California, Ms. WILD,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. WITTMAN,
Mr. RUSH, and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2489: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2502: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 2504: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2515: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. MEEKS, Mrs.
BEATTY, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 2531: Mr. HUNTER, Mr. COLE, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Mr. BIGGS, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr.
FULCHER, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. EMMER,
and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. RYAN and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Con. Res. 32: Mr. BURCHETT.
H. Res. 23: Mr. PETERS, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H. Res. 60: Mr. MCNERNEY and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H. Res. 107: Mr. COOK, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr.
CLINE, Mr. COLE, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. YOUNG.
H. Res. 114: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. CROW.
H. Res. 179: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois.
H. Res. 289: Ms. LEE of California, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 296: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Res. 331: Mr. CASE and Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 347: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H. Res. 350: Mr. WALKER, Mr. KING of Iowa,
and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY7.021 H08MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2707
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2019 No. 76
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable MAR-
SHA BLACKBURN, a Senator from the
State of Tennessee.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, the giver of every
good and perfect gift, make us instru-
ments of Your love. Today, use our
lawmakers as ambassadors of reconcili-
ation. Direct them in their work as
You surround them with Your gracious
favor. Lord, let all their plans and pur-
poses be guided by Your holy will. May
their primary aim be to serve You and
country with faithfulness as You en-
lighten them so they will find solutions
to the problems that challenge our
world. Make us all good stewards,
striving to use our influence for Your
glory.
We pray in Your gracious Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the following letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, May 8, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable MARSHA BLACKBURN, a
Senator from the State of Tennessee, to per-
form the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mrs. BLACKBURN thereupon as-
sumed the Chair as Acting President
pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will proceed to executive ses-
sion to resume consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Joseph F.
Bianco, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
STEM SCHOOL HIGHLANDS RANCH SHOOTING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I am saddened to have to begin my re-
marks this morning by acknowledging
yet another senseless act of school vio-
lence in America.
Less than a month after the 20th an-
niversary of the tragic shooting at Col-
umbine High School, another Colorado
community was shattered yesterday
afternoon. Just miles away, at the
STEM School Highlands Ranch, one
student has been killed, eight others
have been wounded, and many more
young lives have been changed forever
at the hands of two of their fellow stu-
dents.
I know the entire Senate joins me in
holding the victims of yesterday’s
shooting, their families, and their en-
tire community in our prayers today.
Our gratitude is with the first re-
sponders of Douglas County, whose
swift action to engage the shooters
saved untold lives.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on a completely
different matter, as I have been dis-
cussing, the Senate is continuing to
make better progress in its filling of
vacancies in the executive branch and
the Federal judiciary. After last
month’s action to restore a more func-
tional, straightforward system for con-
sidering lower level nominations, we
have begun the process of clearing the
executive calendar backlog that has
been left by literally years of partisan
obstruction.
This morning, we will vote to con-
firm three qualified individuals the
President nominated for the Export-
Import Bank: Kimberley Reed, of West
Virginia, to serve as President and
Spencer Bachus, of Alabama, and Ju-
dith Pryor, of Ohio, to serve on the
Board of Directors. Combined, they
have spent years waiting for confirma-
tion. Now, thanks to last month’s ac-
tion, we will consider them on the floor
this week.
We will also vote to confirm Joseph
Bianco, of New York, as U.S. circuit
judge for the Second Circuit. Mr.
Bianco is a graduate of Georgetown
University and of Columbia University
School of Law. He has contributed
years of distinguished service as an as-
sistant U.S. attorney and now as a U.S.
district judge for the Southern District
of New York. The Senate confirmed
him to that last role by a voice vote
back in 2005. So I hope we can muster
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.000 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2708 May 8, 2019
another strong, bipartisan vote of con-
fidence in this exceptionally well-
qualified jurist.
Finally, the Senate will consider
Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to
serve on the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission, and it will con-
sider Michael Park, of New York, to be
a U.S. circuit judge for the Second Cir-
cuit. I am proud that even amid par-
tisan distractions, this body will con-
tinue fulfilling one of its key constitu-
tional responsibilities.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Madam President, on one final mat-
ter, I talked about leaving the ‘‘out-
rage industrial complex’’ behind and
returning focus to the issues that im-
pact the everyday lives of the Amer-
ican people. That is what my Repub-
lican colleagues and I have been fo-
cused on all along, and we are con-
tinuing to see that focus pay off.
For the better part of the last 2
years, the Labor Department’s month-
ly jobs report has regularly pointed to
an economy that has been opening new
doors for millions of Americans. It has
reinforced what we have known to be
the case—that the pro-growth, pro-op-
portunity agenda enacted by the Re-
publicans has been helping America’s
working families, job creators, and en-
trepreneurs write a remarkable new
chapter of prosperity.
Here are just a few of the headlines
to emerge following last Friday’s jobs
report: ‘‘Real gains in the paychecks of
average workers’’; ‘‘Torrent of job of-
fers, bigger salaries offer more proof
U.S. labor market is still red-hot’’;
‘‘U.S. unemployment fell to 3.6 percent,
the lowest since December 1969.’’
Yet there appears to be plenty of dis-
belief among Washington Democrats
that things like rising wages, consumer
confidence, and fierce competition for
skilled American workers are causes
for celebration. At least, that is what
their recent policy proposals have left
us to assume.
From a massive Federal experiment
in one-size-fits-all health insurance to
a Washington-dictated ‘‘green’’ over-
haul of American homes, cars, and
jobs, the Democrats seem determined
to make the current wave of prosperity
and economic opportunity short-lived.
They are peddling a wholesale shift
away from the free enterprise tradition
that has unleashed prosperity and op-
portunity throughout American his-
tory, and they are doing so at the very
time that daily headlines confirm
those principles are still working to
literally lift up American families.
In my home State of Kentucky, the
unemployment rate has reached its
lowest level on record. Communities
across the country are tapping into
new opportunities for growth, and fam-
ilies and job creators nationwide are
benefiting.
So Republicans will continue work-
ing hard, laying the groundwork for
American free enterprise to seize on
this truly extraordinary moment.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that I give my
remarks under leader time and that
the vote occurs immediately after.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
REMEMBERING ROBERT PEAR
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
begin this morning with a heavy heart,
having heard of the abrupt passing of
New York Times journalist Robert
Pear.
It just so happens that Robert lived
on my floor in college during freshman
year. While everyone else in those days
had long hair and wore bell-bottoms,
Robert had a flattop, was always stu-
dious, inquisitive, polite, and very de-
cent, earning him the nickname ‘‘The
Deacon.’’ He was the first to go into
the library and the last to come out
late at night. The Deacon was different
from most of us but earned all of our
respect.
Robert maintained the qualities of
studiousness and inquisitiveness, po-
liteness and decency throughout his
personal and professional life. In my
view, he represented the very best of
America.
When Robert’s byline appeared on a
story—and so often, his stories were on
the front page, above the fold of the
New York Times—the reader knew the
reporting would be both important and
authoritative.
His death is a loss for journalism
itself. I send my condolences to his
family in this moment of profound
grief.
MUELLER REPORT
We all know that Leader MCCONNELL
would like to move on from the
Mueller report. We know that he and
many Senate Republicans are ready to
say ‘‘case closed.’’ We all know that
whether he has been bamboozled by,
afraid of, worried about, or simply en-
amored with President Trump, Leader
MCCONNELL would prefer to sweep the
entire report under the rug. So, yester-
day, Leader MCCONNELL’s speech here
on the Senate floor struck me as an
impassioned bit of wishful thinking
that I believe the leader will regret in
later days that he gave.
I am sure President Nixon wished
that the investigations into Watergate
would simply go away, just as I am
sure President Trump wants Mueller’s
investigations to fade into the back-
ground, but in the first case—President
Nixon—we had courageous Republicans
who put the rule of law above simple
fealty to a President, and they re-
sisted. Unfortunately, thus far, Leader
MCCONNELL has shown none of that no-
bility and strength. He is simply going
along with President Trump.
Just for a moment, though, let us set
aside the discussion about the Presi-
dent’s repeated attempts to obstruct
the Federal investigation. Let’s just
talk about the conclusions Mueller
came to about election interference in
2016, separate from his views of the in-
vestigation of Trump.
Does Leader MCCONNELL agree that
election security is a serious and ongo-
ing challenge? Does Leader MCCONNELL
agree with FBI Director Wray that
‘‘2018 was a dress rehearsal’’ for foreign
influence campaigns against the
United States? Does the leader agree
with our intelligence and law enforce-
ment officials who are warning us right
now that foreign capitals—Russia
above all but perhaps Iran and China
and Turkey—are gearing up to try to
interfere with our elections in 2020?
This is the wellspring of our democ-
racy. Russia may temporarily want to
choose one candidate over another—as
they chose Trump in 2016 and may well
again—but their ultimate goal is to
sow such dissension, worry, and lack of
faith in our democracy that it could
crumble. If everyone believes that for-
eigners are influencing our elections
and the outcome isn’t just, that is a
terrible—terrible—step downward for
America that none of us wants to take.
Then why doesn’t Leader MCCONNELL
at least do something about election
security, independent of President
Trump—although, those investigations
and hearings should go on and will. If
so, if Leader MCCONNELL believes this
foreign interference in our elections is
a serious problem, then he has an obli-
gation to separate himself from his de-
sire to shield the President from ac-
countability and to act on this na-
tional imperative to defend our democ-
racy from insidious and foreign attack.
Whatever Leader MCCONNELL be-
lieves about the President’s behavior
and for whatever reason, there is no
reason for Leader MCCONNELL to resist
bipartisan bills like the Secure Elec-
tions Act that would harden election
infrastructure. There is no reason for
Leader MCCONNELL to oppose addi-
tional funding in the appropriations
process for States to safeguard their
election hardware. For God’s sake,
there is no good reason for Leader
MCCONNELL to resist or delay sched-
uling an all-Senators briefing on elec-
tion threats in 2020. The only reason to
do that would be false.
I hope the reason Leader MCCONNELL
is resisting strengthening and securing
our elections is not because he believes
Russia will help President Trump and
that he is willing to let that go for-
ward. I hope that is not true. There is
no good reason on God’s green Earth
why we shouldn’t be making our elec-
tions more secure, even though we may
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.001 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2709
May 8, 2019
have different views about the Mueller
report.
I urge my friend the Republican lead-
er: Disentangle yourself from the self-
serving desire to sweep the Mueller re-
port and all of its findings under the
rug. Recognize that it is indisputable
that Russian interference is a great
threat to our elections, that the
Mueller report helped corroborate and
document that, and work with us. For
the sake of America, Leader MCCON-
NELL, work with us to protect our
country from foreign interference in
our elections in the future. Do not—
you cannot; you must not—sit on the
sidelines.
DISASTER RELIEF
Madam President, on another issue,
yesterday we heard Leader MCCONNELL
say he would like to get a disaster re-
lief package done by Memorial Day.
Democrats in this Chamber are going
to hold him to that standard, and we
will make sure the package provided
will have funding for all affected com-
munities, from Hawaii all the way to
Puerto Rico.
My colleagues from the Midwest and
South are starting to feel the heat. Ac-
cording to press reports, they are going
to Leader MCCONNELL and saying, ‘‘We
have to get something done,’’ because
they realize, justifiably, that with each
passing week, the cost of inaction
grows. Cities in Iowa have endured an-
other round of flooding. In the South,
the hurricane season is around the cor-
ner. We need to get disaster aid out the
door.
When you want to know why it
hasn’t happened, first and foremost, it
is because President Trump disrupted a
bipartisan bill that would have passed
a month and a half ago and said: No aid
for Puerto Rico. Second, our Repub-
lican colleagues in the Midwest and in
the South willingly went along with
that, thinking they could roll over
Puerto Rico, roll over the House, and
roll over Democrats in the Senate.
Well, now you have learned that is
not happening. So work with us on a
bipartisan package. We want to get it
done. We want to see aid go to every
part of the country, including the Mid-
west, including the South, including
Florida, and including Texas, but Puer-
to Rico must be treated similarly and
fairly.
I promise that we could solve this
impasse in a moment. If Republicans in
the Senate agree to treat Puerto Rico
fairly, a disaster package will pass this
Chamber like a hot knife through but-
ter.
Our position is very simple: Demo-
crats support a package for disaster re-
lief that provides support for all af-
fected Americans: Hawaii, California,
Iowa, the South, the Atlantic coast,
the Pacific islands, and the island of
Puerto Rico, and we are not going to
move forward unless everyone is in-
cluded and everyone is treated fairly.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on nominations,
today is a great example of how Leader
MCCONNELL and the Senate, in place of
real legislative progress and in place of
helping the middle class in this turbu-
lent world in which we live, simply
used floor time as a legislative grave-
yard to only rubberstamp extreme and
unqualified nominees with no legis-
lating. We have become a legislative
graveyard under Leader MCCONNELL’s
leadership, and the middle class and
people trying to get there suffer.
This afternoon, Senate Republicans
are going to confirm Janet Dhillon to
be the Chair of the EEOC. This move to
restore a quorum by confirming a Re-
publican nominee, while refusing to
consider Democratic nominees—which
had been the Senate’s tradition to al-
ways do these nominees in a bipartisan
way, one Democrat and one Republican
together—is going to imperil equal pay
rules and protections for LGBTQ work-
ers.
This afternoon, the Senate will vote
to end debate on the nomination of Mi-
chael Park to the Second Circuit. A
quick overview of Mr. Park’s experi-
ence reveals some pretty outlandish
views.
In private practice, he advanced ar-
guments that would limit the civil
rights of millions of Americans on mat-
ters pertaining to the census and edu-
cational opportunity. He represented
groups in an amicus brief against the
constitutionality of Medicaid expan-
sion and worked to defend the Kansas
effort to defund Planned Parenthood.
Since the Second Circuit covers my
home State of New York, I met with
Mr. Park to try to understand why he
was being nominated for a lifetime po-
sition as a circuit court judge. Frank-
ly, his principal qualifications seemed
to be that he is a card-carrying mem-
ber of the Federalist Society.
Mr. Park has little experience and
little judicial background. He is an
ideologue. He doesn’t have the kind of
balance and integrity and compassion
and understanding of both sides that
any judge needs. It will be obvious to
anyone who reviews his record that he
lacks the breadth and objectivity that
we prize in our judges, but my Repub-
lican friends, like Leader MCCONNELL,
have a singular goal: to remake the
Federal bench in their image. So Fed-
eralist stooges, like Mr. Park, who
aren’t qualified for District Court, are
being rammed through as circuit court
judges.
The Senate ought to reject this con-
firmation. In the less partisan Senates
of the past, it wouldn’t even have come
forward, but, regrettably, instead of
legislating, instead of doing things for
the American people, all Leader
MCCONNELL is doing is ramming
through these nominees, most of whom
are way out of the mainstream, far
away from the views of most Ameri-
cans, and unqualified for their jobs.
This wouldn’t have happened years
ago. I hope my colleagues, when they
look at Mr. Park’s record, will do the
right thing.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Madam President, finally, on wom-
en’s healthcare, later today, a group of
Democratic Senators will come to the
floor to highlight what has been a cam-
paign—a campaign—by Republicans to
strip women of the right to make their
own healthcare decisions.
At the Federal level, the latest salvo
in their offensive is the title X gag
rule, which would hurt low-income in-
dividuals’ access to reproductive
health. In my view, this is a disgusting
attempt to restrict women’s freedom.
The effects of the policy are real and
threaten the lives of women across
America.
Take Natarsha, one of my constitu-
ents in New York. She was 33 years old
when she found two lumps in her left
breast. She went to see the gyne-
cologist at Planned Parenthood.
Natarsha was diagnosed with breast
cancer and underwent treatment. Now,
praise God, more than 5 years later,
her cancer is in complete remission. If
not for the exams and other prevention
offered by Planned Parenthood clinics
across the country, Natarsha and other
women like her might never have re-
ceived lifesaving diagnoses, but Repub-
licans, time and again, have pushed to
defund Planned Parenthood and threat-
ened access to the essential care it pro-
vides.
Republican-led State legislatures
across the country, emboldened by
President Trump, have continued their
attack on the reproductive rights of
women. Just last month, both South
Carolina and Ohio passed bills banning
abortion after only 6 weeks of preg-
nancy, when many women may not
even know they are pregnant. Just yes-
terday, Georgia’s Governor signed his
State’s version of that bill into law.
Since taking office, President Trump
and his Republican colleagues have
prioritized—prioritized—restricting
women’s reproductive freedoms. They
believe they know better, and they im-
pose their views on American women.
That is just wrong.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent for 3 minutes to ad-
dress the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK NOMINATIONS
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate is finally holding long overdue
votes on nominees to the Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States. To me,
this is about Ohio businesses; this is
about American workers; and this is
about the dignity of work. All three of
these nominees are qualified.
For nearly 4 years, the Export-Im-
port Bank has been forced to stop most
of the work supporting American jobs.
A small group of opponents, supported
by special interests in this town, tried
to kill this bank altogether. Ex-Im has
been paralyzed because of leadership in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.003 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2710 May 8, 2019
this body and because of the President
and the Vice President of the United
States. The Bank is technically open
but can’t approve any transaction
greater than $10 million.
The Senate’s inaction, the Presi-
dent’s inaction, and the Vice Presi-
dent’s inaction have hurt Ohio manu-
facturers. In the past, Ohio companies
exported more than $400 million a year
in products using Export-Import Bank
credit assistance. That amount has
been cut nearly in half. That means
jobs. It means good-paying industrial
jobs. If the President and Republicans
in Congress were serious about helping
American manufacturers after years
and years of obstruction, which they
have done, they would approve these
nominees and work with us to author-
ize the Bank this summer.
My colleagues have a choice: Do they
care about these businesses; do they
care about manufacturing; do they care
about workers; do they care about the
dignity of workers; or do they care
more about their extreme special inter-
est politics?
I stand with our workers. I will vote
to reopen the Export-Import Bank.
Thank you.
VOTE ON BIANCO NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Bianco nomination?
Mr. ROUNDS. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 99 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—42
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sinema
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in the series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON THE REED NOMINATION
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Kimberly A. Reed, of
West Virginia, to be President of the
Export-Import Bank of the United
States for a term expiring January 20,
2021.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Reed nomination.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 79,
nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 100 Ex.]
YEAS—79
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—17
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Shelby
Toomey
Young
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sinema
The nomination was confirmed.
VOTE ON BACHUS NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Bachus nomina-
tion.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Spencer Bachus III, of Ala-
bama, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Export-Import Bank of
the United States for a term expiring
January 20, 2023.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Bachus nomination?
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, I ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA), and the Senator
from Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 72,
nays 22, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 101 Ex.]
YEAS—72
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—22
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Gillibrand
Grassley
Harris
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Markey
Merkley
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.004 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2711
May 8, 2019
Paul
Rubio
Sasse
Shelby
Toomey
Warren
Young
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sanders
Sinema
Whitehouse
The nomination was confirmed.
VOTE ON PRYOR NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Pryor nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Export-Import Bank of the United
States for a term expiring January 20,
2021.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Pryor nomination?
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 77,
nays 19, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 102 Ex.]
YEAS—77
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—19
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Shelby
Sullivan
Toomey
Young
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sinema
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the following
nomination, which the clerk will re-
port.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a
Member of the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission for a term expir-
ing July 1, 2022.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to
be a Member of the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission for a term expiring
July 1, 2022.
Mitch McConnell, Lamar Alexander, Tim
Scott, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker,
Roy Blunt, David Perdue, John Thune,
Pat Roberts, Johnny Isakson, John
Cornyn, Thom Tillis, John Boozman,
Mike Rounds, Richard Burr.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to
be a member of the Equal Opportunity
Commission for a term expiring July 1,
2022, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 103 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sinema
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 52, the nays are 44.
The motion is agreed to.
The majority whip.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we
reached a milestone last week with the
confirmation of President Trump’s
100th Federal judge, and, frankly, it is
a milestone that should have come ear-
lier. Had this been another President,
it almost undoubtedly would have
come earlier. But, unfortunately, the
response to this President has been
characterized by what the leader aptly
referred to yesterday as ‘‘unhinged par-
tisanship.’’
Now, 21⁄2 years on from President
Trump’s election, Democrats still can’t
get over the fact that they lost. Some-
how, my colleagues missed the section
in government class where you learn
that is what happens sometimes in de-
mocracies. Sometimes you win. Some-
times—and I hate to break it to my
colleagues—sometimes you lose. It is
not fun. No one likes having their can-
didate lose, but that is what happens
sometimes when you have free elec-
tions.
No one expects Democrats to just
sign on to everything President Trump
says or does. No one expects them to
sign on to most of what President
Trump says or does. I certainly under-
stand that they have philosophical dis-
agreements with many of his policies. I
have been in their position. During my
time in public office, there have cer-
tainly been Presidents with whom I
disagreed a substantial part of the
time. I like to think that I didn’t re-
flexively oppose everything they said
or did simply because they weren’t my
preferred candidate for the office. I am
fairly certain President Trump
couldn’t eat a cheese sandwich without
some Democrat crying treason.
Well, let’s step back a minute. Maybe
it is not that my Democratic col-
leagues are reflexively opposing every-
thing this President does. Maybe it is
not unhinged partisanship. Maybe it is
just that they disagree with every sin-
gle word he says, every single thing he
does, and every single individual he
nominates—except in the case of nomi-
nees, at least, we know that isn’t true.
Let’s go back to those judicial nomi-
nations. Democrats have engaged in a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.003 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2712 May 8, 2019
truly unprecedented amount of ob-
struction on President Trump’s judi-
cial nominees. As of May 2, Democrats
have forced cloture votes on almost 65
percent of President Trump’s judicial
nominees—65 percent. At the same
point in President Obama’s first term,
Republicans had required cloture votes
on just 21⁄2 percent of his judicial nomi-
nees—65 percent to 21⁄2 percent. But,
again, maybe that is because Demo-
crats have serious philosophical objec-
tions to these nominees—except they
don’t, because again and again, Demo-
crats have turned around and voted for
the Trump judicial nominees they ob-
structed.
One egregious example occurred in
January of 2018 when Democrats forced
the Senate to spend more than a week
considering four district court judges
even though not one single Democrat
voted against their confirmation. That
is right. Democrats forced the Senate
to spend more than a week considering
the nomination of four judges even
though not one single Democrat op-
posed their confirmation. These judges
could have been confirmed in a matter
of minutes by voice vote, but Demo-
crats forced the Senate to spend more
than a week on their consideration—
time that could have been spent on
genuinely controversial nominees or on
some of the many important issues fac-
ing our country.
As of April 2 of this year, Democrats
have forced cloture votes on 20 of the
district court judges the Senate has
confirmed. Ultimately, however, 19 of
those 20 judges were confirmed by more
than 68 votes. Now, 17 of those 20 were
confirmed by more than 80 votes, and
12 of those 20 were confirmed without a
single vote in opposition. Yet Demo-
crats obstructed all of them.
One hundred judicial nominees con-
firmed is a solid milestone, but, as I
said before, it is a milestone that
should have come earlier and would
have come earlier if Democrats hadn’t
chosen to engage in a massive cam-
paign of partisan obstruction. Despite
a lot of hard work by the Judiciary
Committee and a robust pace of nomi-
nations from the President, the num-
ber of judicial vacancies is actually 25
percent higher today than it was when
the President took office, and a near
record number of those vacancies are
designated as judicial emergencies.
That shouldn’t be the case, but thanks
to Democrats’ knee-jerk obstruction,
that is where we are.
Regardless of how much the Demo-
crats obstruct, though, Republicans
will keep moving forward. Despite
Democrats’ best efforts, we confirmed a
record number of circuit court judges
during the President’s first 2 years, and
we are going to keep working our way
through the President’s nominees, judi-
cial and otherwise. We are committed
to filling vacancies in both the execu-
tive branch and the judiciary so that
the American people have the fully
functioning government they deserve.
Perhaps someday Democrats will de-
cide to drop the obstruction and to join
us in the business of actually getting
things done for the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF JANET DHILLON
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission is charged with protecting
workers and job applicants against dis-
crimination based on race, color, reli-
gion, sex, national origin, age, dis-
ability, or genetic information.
Janet Dhillon, the latest nominee to
be a member of that board, has spent
her career, unfortunately, doing the
opposite. She has spent years advo-
cating for corporations over workers
and has a track record that puts her in
direct opposition to the mission of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission. For example, under Ms.
Dhillon’s leadership, the Retail Litiga-
tion Center filed briefs in support of
policies making it more difficult for
employers to be held liable for harass-
ment.
I am also concerned that Ms. Dhillon
has declined to answer whether she
would uphold the EEOC’s current posi-
tion that the Civil Rights Act forbids
employment discrimination on the
basis of gender identity or sexual ori-
entation. The EEOC is considering
issues that are critical to protecting
workers, including ongoing court cases
to protect LGBTQ workers from dis-
crimination and improve pay data col-
lection for women in the workforce.
Women, on average, make 80 cents per
every dollar earned by a man. The gap
is even higher for women of color. We
need Commissioners at the EEOC who
will fight to close this gap.
No matter your age, race, occupa-
tion, religion, or sexuality, you should
be treated with dignity, and for too
long, with too many people, this has
not been the case. Ms. Dhillon has not
demonstrated that she will be a cham-
pion for these workers.
In the past, we have always tried to
move EEOC nominations in a bipar-
tisan way, with Democratic and Repub-
lican nominees confirmed at the same
time, but for months, for reasons I can-
not explain, my Republican colleagues
have refused to hold a vote on a Demo-
cratic nominee to this Commission.
This obstruction has forced the EEOC
to operate without a quorum, pre-
venting it from conducting crucial
business, such as issuing new policies,
guidance, and regulations.
This is another example of Repub-
licans changing Senate norms and tra-
ditions when it comes to their quest for
nominations. We are also seeing that
this week with votes on two Second
Circuit nominees from New York who
are being pushed through over objec-
tions by both home State Senators. Be-
fore this year, we had never, never seen
a judicial nominee receive a vote with-
out a positive blue slip from either
home State Senator.
‘‘Blue slip’’ is just a formal term; it
is actually an approval by the Senator
of a nomination.
By the end of this week, it will have
happened four times—in the State of
Washington, New Jersey, and now New
York. This is a terrible precedent that
could end up affecting each of our
States.
Republicans appear determined to ig-
nore traditions and common sense in
their effort to confirm the highest pos-
sible volume of President Trump’s ex-
treme nominees. I continue to call on
my colleagues to change course. I
think it is a mistake.
I oppose Janet Dhillon’s nomination
as Chairman of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission.
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
Mr. President, last month, on Friday,
April 12, I visited the port of entry in
El Paso, TX, that is known as Paso Del
Norte and a nearby Border Patrol sta-
tion known as Station No. 1. What I
saw was heartbreaking.
The migrants who presented them-
selves at our border are being detained
in cramped cells known as hieleras,
Spanish for the word ‘‘iceboxes.’’ These
are metal-sided detention rooms, which
the detainees complain are kept pain-
fully cold. The sign above one of these
detention room doors reads ‘‘Capacity:
35.’’ I took a few minutes and counted
the number of men in that cell. Capac-
ity may have been 35, but there were
over 150 men standing in that cell and
maybe one toilet. The large, heavy
glass window on the cell gave a clear
view of the detainees. But for a few
benches along the walls, which accom-
modate a very small number, there is
literally no room to sit or lie down.
Meals are provided to the standing mi-
grants to eat in the cell. Many will
wait for up to 3 weeks in this so-called
icebox to be transferred to an ICE facil-
ity.
Next to it was a woman’s cell that
has a sign reading ‘‘Capacity: 16.’’ I
paused and counted about 75 women in
a cell designed for 16, including nursing
mothers with their babies. As our eyes
would lock, some of the women would
mouth the word ‘‘help.’’
Just outside this building, hundreds
of men and women and children who
were brought in from the border hours
before stood in long lines. These mi-
grants are at the end of a long and dan-
gerous journey, and this preliminary
process led them to a table where four
officials were writing down informa-
tion. The approach was clearly de-
signed to be slow, and it was clearly
understaffed.
I stood in line with a translator
speaking to those who were waiting.
One was a young mother holding a 1-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.022 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2713
May 8, 2019
year-old child. She told me of taking 4
weeks—1 month—to escape Honduras
and to cross Mexico to escape the narco
gangsters in her country. Another
young Honduran woman, pregnant and
obviously close to delivering, stood pa-
tiently in line. The young father-to-be
hovered behind her, holding two dispos-
able diapers. The previous night, they
had come to our border looking for pro-
tection. I asked them why, in her con-
dition, she would make such a journey.
She told me she was threatened with
not only her death but the death of her
infant if her husband refused to work
with the drug gangs in Honduras. As a
result, she told me her family sold ab-
solutely everything they had to pay for
the transporters—also known as smug-
glers or coyotes—to transport them
across Mexico to our border.
Included in the omnibus appropria-
tions bill that we wrote this year was
more than $400 million for humani-
tarian assistance for the border. We
could do so much more even in the
midst of our political debate—so much
more to treat these desperate people in
a humane way.
I am sorry to report that I do not be-
lieve the detention facilities that we
have for detained migrants could pos-
sibly pass any inspection by the Inter-
national Red Cross. We are America.
We are better than this.
It is clear the Trump administra-
tion’s border security policies have
failed. They have destabilized the re-
gion, encouraged more migration, and
are driving more families into the arms
of human traffickers. The Trump ad-
ministration has shut down legal ave-
nues for vulnerable families and chil-
dren fleeing persecution.
There was a program called the Cen-
tral American Minors Program under
President Obama. It was straight-
forward. Children and certain relatives
seeking protection who lived in a coun-
try such as Honduras could present
themselves in-country at the con-
sulate, fill out the forms, and deter-
mine whether they were eligible for
refugee status or humanitarian parole.
These children and family members
didn’t have to make a dangerous jour-
ney, liquidate everything they owned
on Earth, and risk their lives. Presi-
dent Trump closed down that program.
Why? Wouldn’t you want them to learn
their status, if they could, in their
country of origin?
Migrants fleeing persecution are also
being blocked from using legal ports of
entry. They have been forced to use
human traffickers to cross the border
illegally. They may have gone through
ports of entry and presented them-
selves, but when we started queuing
them up and limiting the number each
day, some of them, in desperation,
went to present themselves at the bor-
der between ports of entry. Make no
mistake. This is not an invasion, as the
President has described over and over.
This is actually a person making his or
her way across that desert land and
presenting themselves voluntarily to
the first person in an American uni-
form.
The President terminated temporary
protected status for El Salvador and
Honduras, which could force a quarter
of a million people back to these coun-
tries—exactly the opposite of what we
should be doing at this moment.
The President has also proposed
slashing the humanitarian and security
assistance to the Northern Triangle.
That is illogical. The notion that we
would cut off funds to these desperate
countries that lack civil government
and that are controlled by drug gangs
will make the situation worse. It will
make these people more desperate.
The President is doing and saying ex-
actly the opposite of what he should be
saying. I understand his emotion. We
see it regularly. I understand his anger,
but someone should sit down with him
and explain to him that he is making
the matter worse. Each of these policy
mistakes could be reversed by the
President immediately. Let’s not for-
get that just a few short months ago,
the President shut down the Federal
Government in his desperate pursuit of
taxpayer-funded border walls so he
could fulfill a campaign promise. We
all remember, of course, that Mexico
was supposed to pay for this wall. That
has been forgotten by most, but not by
those of us who have a memory of the
last campaign.
Did you realize that while the gov-
ernment was shut down, the President
shut down the immigration courts? In
not paying or not allowing them to
meet the immigration court backlog, it
started growing, making the situation
even worse. Every time the President’s
emotion takes over on immigration,
his instincts are 180 degrees off course.
When the President blocks all assist-
ance to the Northern Triangle coun-
tries—Guatemala, Honduras, and El
Salvador—and shuts down avenues to
legal migration, he guarantees that
more refugees will flee to our border.
When he talks about ‘‘dumping’’ these
migrants into sanctuary cities, he
shows contempt for these human
beings and their plight. When he uses
words like ‘‘murderers,’’ ‘‘rapists,’’ and
‘‘invasion,’’ he appeals to base emo-
tions of fear and hate. At every turn,
the President has responded to this
heartbreaking humanitarian challenge
at the border with threats and mean-
ness that only makes the matter
worse.
When Attorney General Barr is not
busy trying to make the Justice De-
partment the President’s personal law
firm, he is enthusiastically carrying
out Attorney General Sessions’ and
Secretary Nielsen’s legacy of failed im-
migration policies.
One year ago, on May 7, 2018, then-
Attorney General Sessions made an an-
nouncement. He announced that the
Department of Homeland Security was
referring 100 percent of the border
cases to the Justice Department to be
prosecuted under criminal statutes,
under what they characterized as the
‘‘zero-tolerance’’ policy. The targets of
those prosecutions included mothers
seeking safety from gang violence and
domestic violence.
We know the result. I remember that
last August I went to an immigration
court in Chicago. I didn’t know it was
there. It was in the Loop, downtown, in
an office building, and one whole floor
was dedicated to a U.S. immigration
court. This was after the announce-
ment of the zero-tolerance policy. I
could barely get off the elevator. The
hallways were packed for the hearings
that were scheduled. It was a long, long
docket.
I went into the courtroom before it
started and sat down with the immi-
gration court judge who had been on
the job for almost two decades. I be-
lieve she is a caring person who really
wanted to follow the law and do it in a
thoughtful, humane way. She asked me
if I wanted to stay for the first docket
call. I said I would.
So I watched as she asked everyone
in the courtroom to take their seats
before the two clients who would be
called first. One of these clients had
difficulty getting into the chair. Maria
was 2 years old. She wasn’t old enough
to climb in the chair by herself. She
had been separated from her parent
under this policy announced by Attor-
ney General Sessions. So they lifted
her up and put her in the chair and
handed her a stuffed animal that she
clung to. She obviously didn’t under-
stand a thing about what was hap-
pening in that room—2 years old and in
an immigration court of the United
States.
The other client was much more
agile. He was able to get into the chair.
His name was Hamilton, and he was 4
years old. The reason he scrambled
into the chair is that he saw a Match-
box car on top of the table.
Those were, I believe, the first two
clients under the zero-tolerance policy
in a Chicago courtroom. Can we pos-
sibly be proud of that? Were those chil-
dren separated from their mothers and
fathers in an effort to deter others
from coming to the United States? Is
that what this was all about?
It didn’t take long for President
Trump to abandon the zero-tolerance
policy. Thankfully, after a few months,
a Federal judge in San Diego, CA, said:
That is it. Reunite those kids with
their parents.
It turned out that there were more
than 2,800 of these children who had
been separated from their parents.
Some of them are still in the system.
Even after several months the govern-
ment was unable to locate their fami-
lies so the children could be reunited
with them. There have been hints by
the President that he is going to return
to that policy. Really? Really? Is that
what America is all about—snatching
children away from their parents?
Those who are experts in the area,
psychologists and doctors, tell us that
this could have a long-term dramatic
negative impact on a baby. It is under-
standable. I have seen cases and met
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.023 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2714 May 8, 2019
the mothers, when, finally, after
months they were reunited and the
child wanted nothing to do with them,
feeling that they had been abandoned
by their parents. America is better
than that.
In an investigation by the inspector
general of Health and Human Services
that I requested with Senator PATTY
MURRAY, it now turns out that 1 year
ago, even before the announcement of
zero tolerance, thousands of kids may
have been separated by this same ad-
ministration, and we still don’t know
their plight. The Federal judge in San
Diego has once again asked for a
human accounting of what happened to
those kids.
I stand ready to work with my Re-
publican friends on smart, effective,
and humane border security, but we
need the Trump administration to drop
the cruel campaign of targeting fami-
lies and children and focus on the real
threats to America—the lethal nar-
cotics that still flood our communities,
80 to 90 percent which come through
ports of entry that we were discussing
today.
In the last Congress, Democrats in-
troduced the Central America Reform
and Enforcement Act as a comprehen-
sive response to the problem. The bill
addresses measures like the root causes
of migration from the Northern Tri-
angle countries. If our laws are so bad
and so welcoming to people who
shouldn’t be here, why is it that over-
whelmingly these people are coming
from three countries? They are not
coming from Mexico or other Central
American countries. There is some-
thing going on in these three coun-
tries—Honduras, Guatemala, and El
Salvador—that needs to be addressed.
We need to crack down on the cartels
and the traffickers.
Make no mistake. Our thirst and ap-
petite for narcotics coming into this
country has created a cycle of violence
and death. As we purchase the nar-
cotics and send drug money back to the
cartels in Central America and Mexico,
that money fuels their further efforts
to export narcotics to the United
States, as well the export of firearms.
The GAO found that seventy percent of
the guns confiscated and traced in
Mexico came from the United States,
most purchased legally in gun shops
and at gun shows. In the name of the
Second Amendment and not doing a
background check, we are literally
arming the drug cartels that are ter-
rorizing people in Central America.
We have to put two and two together.
We have to expand third-country reset-
tlement in Mexico and other Central
American countries. We have to have
in-country processing of refugees, as I
mentioned earlier, and we have to
eliminate the immigration court back-
log.
I will be introducing legislation soon
to achieve these goals. I am willing to
work with colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to address this crisis on our
border.
Mr. President, there is no one else on
the floor to speak. I ask unanimous
consent to address another subject for
the record.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, every-
one knows that this Sunday is Moth-
er’s Day, a day when we honor our
moms, step moms, our mothers-in-law,
our grandmothers, our wives and all
the women who chose to love, sacrifice,
and care for a child. It is also a day
when we celebrate new moms-to-be. I
am happy to report to you that I am
just a few days away from having a
new granddaughter, which I am really
excited about. There is a lot of excite-
ment and happiness in our family, and
it will be intensified coming this Sun-
day on Mother’s Day.
My wife and I have three beautiful
kids, and we have now five wonderful
grandchildren, with a sixth one on the
way. There is nothing more exciting
than learning of a new addition to your
family, and there is nothing more so-
bering than the state of maternal and
infant healthcare in this great Nation.
I can think of no better way to cele-
brate and honor Mother’s Day than to
immediately commit on a bipartisan
basis to enact change that will improve
the health outcomes for new moms and
babies nationwide. Too often in our
country, new moms and infants, espe-
cially women and babies of color, are
dying from completely preventable
health complications.
Listen to this. The United States is 1
of only 13 countries in the world where
the maternal mortality rate is worse
today than it was 25 years ago. Over
the past 30 years, our maternal mor-
tality rate has more than doubled. In
the United States of America, with all
of our hospitals and doctors and med-
ical knowledge, nationwide more than
700 women die every year as a result of
pregnancy. More than 70,000 experience
severe, near-fatal complications. In my
home State of Illinois, 73 women die
every year due to pregnancy-related
complications, and 70 percent of these
deaths are preventable.
These deaths impact women of color
at significantly higher rates. Black
women in the United States are three
to four times more likely than White
women to die as a result of pregnancy.
In Illinois, African-American women
are six times more likely than White
women to die of pregnancy-related
complications.
I had a press conference at a Univer-
sity of Chicago hospital on this sub-
ject. One of the presenters had done
even deeper research than we had in
preparation, and she reported to me
something that really opened my eyes.
This racial distinction bears no rela-
tion to poverty or education. An Afri-
can-American woman, well educated,
from a family with resources, is still
just as vulnerable as those in a lesser
position economically when it comes
to this racial disparity. Not only are
we losing moms, we are losing babies.
This is incredible.
Currently the United States ranks 32
out of 35 of the wealthiest nations
when it comes to infant mortality.
Every year more than 23,000 infants die
in this country, largely due to factors
that, in many cases, can be prevented—
birth defects, low birth weight, and
maternal complications. Again, the Af-
rican-American community is im-
pacted more severely. In the United
States, babies of color are twice as
likely to die as White babies. The ra-
cial disparity is greater than it was in
the year 1850 in the United States.
Something has to be done.
I joined with Congresswoman ROBIN
KELLY of Illinois and my colleague
Senator TAMMY DUCKWORTH, and we in-
troduced the appropriately named
MOMMA Act.
First and foremost, our bill would ex-
pand the length of time that a new
mom can keep her Medicaid health
coverage.
Currently, Medicaid has to cover
women for only 2 months postpartum.
Our bill expands it to a year. Given
that 60 percent of maternal deaths
occur in the weeks and months after
delivery, it is imperative that new
mothers be able to keep their health
coverage longer.
Next, the MOMMA’s Act would im-
prove access to doulas. Too often, dis-
parities in maternal and infant mor-
tality are rooted in structural racism
in healthcare, meaning African-Amer-
ican women often receive poorer qual-
ity care than White women simply be-
cause of the color of their skin. Black
women are not often listened to or
taken seriously by healthcare pro-
viders. Doulas can help provide edu-
cation, advocacy, and support for
women whose voices are being ignored.
To this point, our bill would also im-
prove implicit bias and cultural com-
petency training among healthcare
providers.
Lastly, our bill would provide im-
proved hospital coordination reporting
on maternal health outcomes and en-
sure implementation of services to im-
prove care.
My bill is not the only one on this
subject. Senator KAMALA HARRIS has
introduced a bill to help train medical
providers to avoid racial bias. Senator
ELIZABETH WARREN suggests giving
hospitals a financial bonus for success-
ful health outcome improvements. Sen-
ator CORY has a bill to improve access
to primary care providers and doulas.
Senator KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND has a bill
to provide States and hospitals with
needed funding to develop and imple-
ment maternal safety best practices.
There is no shortage of legislative
ideas that would help improve mater-
nal and infant health outcomes. Yet,
unfortunately, we are not considering
them.
We even changed the rules in the
Senate a few weeks ago, and the Re-
publican leader came to the floor and
said we need more time for legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.026 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2715
May 8, 2019
There has not been much legislation
going on in this Senate in the last few
weeks.
Would it not be nice if we had a good,
bipartisan bill that addresses this issue
of maternal and infant mortality in
time for Mother’s Day? There is still
time tomorrow for the leader, Senator
MCCONNELL, to call this measure to the
floor, and I hope he will.
We have to make sure as well—and I
will close by saying this—that the Af-
fordable Care Act continues to be a
strong opportunity for people to have
access to affordable, quality healthcare
and to make certain that the lawsuit
that emanated from the State of Texas
and is now working its way through
the Federal courts does not take pro-
tection away from Americans with pre-
existing conditions. That continues to
be a threat we have to take seriously.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, it is
rare to find Washington Post, Wall
Street Journal, and USA TODAY edi-
tors all in agreement, but they are all
on the same page when it comes to
Senator SANDERS’ radical scheme for a
complete takeover of healthcare in
America. All three papers say that the
Democrats’ single-payer plan—a one-
size-fits-all plan for America—is a bad
idea. Remember, it is not just Senator
SANDERS’ plan; nearly every Senate
Democrat who is running for President
has supported this extreme proposal, as
have 180 Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Post, Journal, and USA TODAY edi-
tors are citing last week’s report by
the Congressional Budget Office as
raising a number of alarm bells. USA
TODAY calls it a pipe dream. The Post
charges Senator SANDERS with deeply
misrepresenting how difficult it would
be to adopt single-payer healthcare for
America. They called it costly. They
called it complicated and expensive.
The CBO projects in its report on a sin-
gle-payer plan that government spend-
ing on healthcare would increase sub-
stantially. They go on to say that to
cover the massive cost of government-
run care—the Journal says that income
taxes of American families would have
to at least double.
Added to the expense is the shock of
banning virtually all private insurance
in this country. There are 180 million
working Americans who receive their
health insurance through work. Out-
lawing private health plans would
cause a serious disruption, forcing 180
million Americans—working families—
from their employer-sponsored health
insurance coverage.
The Washington Post notes that
these employer-provided plans cover
most Americans under the age of 65.
The Journal says that any savings
would have to come from where the
money is, which is cutting payments to
doctors and restricting care—restrict-
ing care. That restricts treatment as
well as new technologies. Lower reim-
bursement rates could drive many doc-
tors from practice and shutter many
small hospitals in my rural commu-
nities and in your rural State, Mr.
President. We are talking about prob-
lems in our rural communities all
across America. The result would be
longer wait times and lower quality of
care.
To quote the Post, ‘‘No matter what
Senator SANDERS says, there is no
Medicare for all without tradeoffs.’’
Mark my words—Medicare for all
would soon become Medicare for none.
Democrats’ one-size-fits-all healthcare
plan—a one-size-fits-all healthcare
plan would mean that you would pay
more to wait longer for worse care.
You would pay more to wait longer for
worse care. That is what one-size-fits-
all healthcare looks like for Ameri-
cans, for people all across the country.
This single-payer plan means major
tax hikes to cover massive costs. It
means much longer lines for lower
quality care. It means the elimination
of private health insurance for Ameri-
cans. It also means the end of the
Medicare Program that seniors rely
upon and so many depend on, on a
daily basis. That is where I want to
focus some of my remarks today—our
seniors’ healthcare needs and why it is
so important to protect their Medicare
benefits that they have paid into over
their entire working lives.
For seniors today, there are 60 mil-
lion of them who rely on the Medicare
Program. Medicare is nothing less than
a medical lifeline. Yet, if the Demo-
crats impose socialized medicine on the
entire country, seniors will quickly
find Medicare replaced by a massive,
new, government-run, one-size-fits-all
program—a system that lowers the
quality of care for them and makes it
harder to get the care they need.
These older Americans worked hard
their entire lives, put in the effort, and
each month or each week had money
deducted from their paychecks that
went into paying for Medicare. They
have paid into this Medicare system for
decades. The average for a couple in
America—they have paid in about
$160,000 in terms of withdrawals from
their paychecks over the course of
their working lives. They deserve noth-
ing less than what they paid for, that
they paid into.
For more than 50 years, Medicare has
helped countless seniors live healthier,
more productive lives. Does Medicare
face challenges? Absolutely. There is
no question about that. But ending
Medicare as we know it would not solve
our healthcare problems; it would sim-
ply make them much worse—certainly
for the 60 million Americans currently
on Medicare.
I have seen Medicare’s value as a doc-
tor. While practicing medicine in Wyo-
ming for decades, I saw firsthand how
effective Medicare is in helping pa-
tients receive the care they need.
Now, as a Senator, I talk with seniors
back home in Wyoming all of the time
and listen to their healthcare concerns.
The week before last, I was at two dif-
ferent health fairs in Wyoming, where
people can go for low-cost blood
screenings and learn more about diabe-
tes, stroke, heart disease, and proper
diet. I visited with people in Rawlins,
WY, and Mountain View, WY. Hundreds
of people came out. There were 1,500
people at the Rawlins health fair.
People in Wyoming actually know
me as a doctor first and as a Senator
second, and above all, they count on
me to protect their Medicare. That is
my concern with this one-size-fits-all
approach the Democrats have been pro-
posing. People in Wyoming want to
make sure that I keep Medicare strong,
keep fighting for them, because the
current system allows them to get to
the doctor they need.
In Wyoming, where people live far
away and the hospitals are few and far
between, we know that with a program
like this—and certainly from the CBO
report last week—small hospitals will
very likely close.
Almost 90 percent of Medicare pa-
tients say that they like the program
and that it works well for them. There
is nearly 90 percent approval. Members
of the Senate would be astonished and
happy with those sorts of approval
numbers for themselves. It is a pro-
gram that is working for them, and
now what is being proposed by the
Democrats is going to absolutely have
devastating effects on Medicare and
our patients on Medicare.
We need to do more to lower the cost
of care for all Americans, but we need
to protect Medicare. To put all of these
new people on a Medicare Program is
going to make it that much harder for
our seniors who are currently on Medi-
care.
Medicare partners with private
health insurers to provide seniors with
better, more affordable care. It is a
program called Medicare Advantage.
There are 22 million American seniors
who are on this Medicare Advantage
Program. Nobody forces them to sign
up; they choose it simply because, as
the name implies, there are advantages
to participating in Medicare Advantage
in terms of preventive care and in
terms of coordinating care. Our seniors
look at these plans and say: You know,
that is right for me. It provides value
for my money. I enjoy what I get.
So it is no surprise that since 2010—
things came along, and ObamaCare was
passed—the number of seniors in Medi-
care Advantage has more than doubled,
because it is a good program for them.
Nevertheless, all 22 million people cur-
rently on Medicare Advantage would
lose Medicare Advantage if the Demo-
crats’ one-size-fits-all approach to
healthcare—which 180 Members of the
House have cosponsored and which the
Senate Democrat candidates for Presi-
dent are cosponsoring—were to pass.
But that is what the Democrats are
proposing—taking Medicare Advantage
away from 22 million Americans.
In January, I joined a bipartisan
group of Senators in sending a letter to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.028 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2716 May 8, 2019
the Centers for Medicare & Medicare
Services urging support for Medicare
Advantage. Ironically, 6 of the 22
Democrats who signed this letter have
now flip-flopped back to this far-ex-
treme-left proposal to outlaw private
health insurance in America. That is
what they are running for President on
and promoting today.
Medicare works with private insurers
to make seniors’ prescription drugs
more affordable as well. This program
is called Medicare Part D. More than 43
million seniors participate in Part D
plans. Again, it is voluntary. How do
we know it must be a good program?
Because that many people see value in
the program, and they have signed up
for it. Can we improve the prescription
drug program? Absolutely. We are
working right now to lower prescrip-
tion drug costs. We have already elimi-
nated the gag order, where pharmacists
couldn’t talk to patients. We have done
the right thing there.
So why are the far-left Democrats at-
tempting to destroy private health
plans? I mean, it is astonishing. Why
do they want to end Medicare as we
know it? Why do they want to turn
Medicare for our seniors into Medicare
for None?
Well, while ‘‘free healthcare’’ may
make for a catchy campaign slogan, it
is unfair to deceive the American peo-
ple, especially our seniors. To quote
the editor of the Wall Street Journal,
‘‘Voters should know Sanders is prom-
ising miracles when what he’ll deliver
is poorer care for everyone.’’
So here we have it. The Congres-
sional Budget Office came out with its
study about what the impacts will be.
The Washington Post, the Wall Street
Journal, USA TODAY—all of them say
this is not right for America.
Let’s be clear. All Americans will pay
a high price for Democrats’ one-size-
fits-all, government-run healthcare
scheme, and I actually think seniors
may suffer the most. It is clear to me
that with a one-size-fits-all healthcare
plan, people will pay more to wait
longer for worse care.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
(The remarks of Ms. SMITH per-
taining to the introduction of S. 1359
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Texas.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yester-
day the Senate Judiciary Committee
held a very important hearing on how
we can bring down prescription drug
prices for American families without
sacrificing the innovation that has
made our country a world leader in
new drug development. That is quite a
challenging balance to strike.
As I travel my State, I have heard
from my constituents about their in-
creasing inability to get their hands on
the medications they need at a price
they can afford—not because no treat-
ment exists, not because they don’t
have insurance, and not even because it
is a pricey, brandnew drug. Patients
can’t afford their prescriptions because
the prices are going up at an alarming
rate, with little evidence or justifica-
tion to back some of the price hikes.
I heard from one Texas pharmacist
who was shocked by the dramatic price
increase of drugs that had been avail-
able for years. She told me about one
popular antibiotic that once cost $8 for
1,000 tabs. She said now it costs more
than $1,200 for the same amount—$8 to
$1,200. What is the justification for
that? Well, we are left to wonder and
speculate, and that is part of the rea-
son for the investigation being under-
taken now by the Finance Committee
and other Senate committees.
These costs have been so over-
whelming that some of my constitu-
ents will cross the border to go to Mex-
ico to try to buy prescription drugs
there. A man from Rockport, TX, told
me one of his prescriptions cost about
$1,000 each month in the United States.
But if he drives a few hours to Mexico,
he can get what he thinks is that same
medication from what he thinks is the
same manufacturer for about $160—
$1,000 versus $160. Of course, what we
don’t know is whether it is a counter-
feit, whether it is not only ineffective
to deal with the condition that he is
taking the medicine for but whether it
might poison him. So this is a chal-
lenging issue with no easy answers.
I know one thing. I know my con-
stituents are frustrated by these con-
fusing price hikes. They don’t under-
stand the dramatic price differences
from one retailer to another, and I
have heard them loud and clear be-
cause I don’t understand it either. We
know that something needs to be done
to rein in the high costs before medica-
tion becomes a luxury only for those
who can afford it.
Since the beginning of this new Con-
gress, the Senate Finance Committee
has held a series of hearings to exam-
ine what is behind these rising costs.
We have heard from all of the major
players in the supply chain and asked
some long overdue questions.
The Senate Judiciary Committee has
begun looking into how to bring these
prices down, specifically by stopping
pharmaceutical companies who game
the patent system. Patents play a very
important role in our economy. They
are recognized in the Constitution
itself, and when somebody discovers
something new and wonderful that
helps improve all our lives, they are
entitled to reap the benefits from that.
Companies, we know, pour extensive
time and funding into the research and
development of new medications. For
example, yesterday, Dr. Jim Allison
from MD Anderson Hospital was in to
see me. He recently got the Nobel Prize
for his research in immunology and
new treatments for cancer. Over the
course of our history, the treatments
for cancer have been almost as tough
as the cancer itself, whether it is sur-
gery or radiation or chemotherapy.
What he has discovered—thanks to the
grants by NIH that have helped pay for
the research—is a new way to use the
body to turn on the cancer itself with-
out the patient receiving additional
drugs or radiation or surgery to deal
with it. It is just amazing. So I do
think we need to continue to encourage
that sort of innovation and research.
And when companies do pour extensive
time and funding into that research
and a patent allows them to recover
that funding once the drug hits the
market, that is a good thing.
We are increasingly seeing some
companies abuse this system in order
to retain exclusivity over a drug for
much longer than the patent would or-
dinarily provide and preventing more
affordable genetics or biosimilars from
entering the market and competing.
From what I have been told by some in
the pharmaceutical industry, about 90
percent of the common prescriptions
that we take are now generic, and they
are pretty inexpensive, relatively
speaking. I know that is the case for
me, and I believe that is likely true.
But for the 10 percent that are still
branded, some of those drug prices go
through the roof.
Then you have an aberration like in-
sulin that has been available for dec-
ades, which, through some sort of mys-
tery, an opaque way of pricing, still
may cost somebody as much as $1,000
or $1,200 a month for their copay. That
doesn’t make any sense to me because
if we are trying to protect innovation,
that argument no longer applies to a
drug long ago discovered and essential
to the life of diabetics.
The chemical formula of the actual
drug is not the only thing that can be
patented, and that is part of the prob-
lem. Manufacturers can get additional
patents for follow-on inventions or in-
novation, which is a new manufac-
turing method or a new formulation or
a new application to a new and dif-
ferent disease. Some of that, I think, is
certainly understandable and should be
protected. I don’t believe that each of
these additional patents is inherently
wrong, but the reckless abuse of the
system and the way they can be struc-
tured sometimes is.
I will be introducing a bill soon that
aims to curb major drug companies’
anti-competitive use of patents to pre-
vent generics or biosimilars from en-
tering the market to promote greater
competition and lower prices. This leg-
islation would properly define two
terms to describe how drug companies
are abusing the system and provide the
Federal Trade Commission with au-
thority to take action.
The first term it would define is
‘‘product hopping,’’ which occurs when
a company develops a reformulation of
a product that is about to lose exclu-
sivity and then pulls the original prod-
uct off the market, preventing entry of
a generic alternative. This may be just
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.030 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2717
May 8, 2019
by releasing a new formulation that is
extended release over time. They can
patent that and pull the original drug
off the market, and then it prohibits
generic competition from entering the
market against that original formula-
tion and, thus, maintain their exclu-
sivity well beyond the intended period
of time. The only purpose for doing
this is not to deliver more effective
drugs but to prevent that generic com-
petition.
One example is the drug Namenda,
which is used by patients with Alz-
heimer’s. Near the end of the exclu-
sivity period, the manufacturer
switched from a twice-daily drug to a
once-daily drug. That move prevented
pharmacists from being able to switch
patients to a lower cost generic, allow-
ing the company to continue to profit
as a result of their exclusive use of
that patent.
Secondly, the bill would define ‘‘pat-
ent thickets,’’ which occur when an in-
novator seeks multiple overlapping
patents or patents with identical
claims near when they are about to
lose their right to exclusivity. Compa-
nies take advantage of our country’s
robust innovation protection in order
to hang onto their monopolies as long
as possible. One example is the drug
Humira, which is one of the most wide-
ly prescribed drugs in the world. It is
commonly used to treat arthritis and
other autoimmune diseases. AbbVie,
the manufacturer of Humira, has 136
patents and 247 patent applications on
their drug, which has been available for
more than 15 years—136 patents with
247 patent applications. There has to be
a reason for that.
This type of behavior makes it very
difficult for biosimilar drugs to come
to market. While the patent on the ac-
tual drug formula—the original one—
may have expired, there are still in
this case hundreds of other patents to
sort through and, frequently, to liti-
gate in terms of the validity of those
additional patents. The artificial struc-
turing of these multiple patents can
delay the entry of generic or biosimilar
competition for much longer than any-
body ever would have intended—cer-
tainly longer than Congress intended
by giving patent protection.
By defining product hopping and pat-
ent thickets as anti-competitive behav-
ior, we would allow the Federal Trade
Commission to bring antitrust suits
against the bad actors who deliberately
game the system, and we would give
them injunctive authority—not money
damage authority, but injunctive au-
thority to make the system fairer and
operate as Congress intended.
The second bill I am going to intro-
duce has to do with Medicare part D—
one of the most successful and popular
pharmaceutical programs around. Part
D sponsors may voluntarily report
fraud data to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, but they are
not required to report the number of
specific instances of potential fraud,
waste, and abuse they identify or the
actions they took to address these
issues. My bill would implement rec-
ommendations for the Department of
Health and Human Services Office of
the Inspector General to require plan
sponsors to report that fraud and im-
prove oversight of this important pro-
gram.
I have learned a lot about prescrip-
tion drugs during these hearings, a lot
about the wonderful lifesaving innova-
tion, the importance of preserving that
period of exclusivity for people who in-
vest in the research and develop these
new lifesaving drugs, but I have also
learned a little bit about some of the
abuses, which I have talked about here
today, and the need for us to continue
to work together to find solutions to
provide Texans and all Americans who
are struggling to cover the cost of their
prescriptions with some relief.
By eliminating some of these tactics
used by pharmaceutical companies to
delay and deter competition, we will
increase the availability of generics
and give patients greater freedom to
choose a drug that works at a price
they can afford. By creating more ac-
countability under Medicare part D, we
can prevent taxpayers from footing the
bill for a broken system.
While we are still working to find a
solution for the multitude of problems
and challenges we face in dealing with
the pharmaceutical drug industry, one
thing is abundantly clear: A one-size-
fits-all, government-run healthcare
system is not going to work. Indeed, we
need to make targeted, smart reforms
that will bring down the cost of pre-
scriptions and not the quality of the
entire healthcare system. That is pre-
cisely what these two bills will do, and
I hope we will be able to advance these
pieces of legislation to promote more
affordable medications.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask unanimous con-
sent to speak as in morning business.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President,
this week, families across our country
are preparing to celebrate Mother’s
Day and recognize the hard work that
women do to support their families and
build a brighter future in their commu-
nities.
Here in Congress, we should be work-
ing to help moms back in Washington
State and across the country. Unfortu-
nately, instead of looking for ways to
support women, President Trump has
been pushing an ideological agenda
that undermines their health, repro-
ductive rights and freedoms, and eco-
nomic security.
When it comes to healthcare, Presi-
dent Trump is working to sabotage the
care moms and their families rely on.
He changed Federal rules to let insur-
ance companies sell junk coverage that
does not cover maternity care, and he
is arguing in court to strike down pro-
tections for women and people with
preexisting conditions in all plans in-
surers sell.
Instead of supporting the Title X
Family Planning Program, which has a
history of bipartisan support and a tre-
mendous track record helping women
get critical, low-cost family planning
and preventive healthcare services,
President Trump is chipping away at it
and working to strip title X grants
from Planned Parenthood, which serves
tens of thousands of women in my
home State of Washington each year
and millions more nationwide, includ-
ing mothers like Shannon.
Shannon first went to Planned Par-
enthood when she was 18 for what
turned out to be endometriosis. It is a
condition that causes severe menstrual
pain and can affect fertility. Thanks to
the treatment she received at Planned
Parenthood, today Shannon is man-
aging her chronic pain and raising an
adorable little girl.
When I was in Seattle a few weeks
ago, another constituent, Cindy, shared
how a routine screening at Planned
Parenthood saved her life by detecting
cancer early on and giving her the head
start she needed to beat it. Today
Cindy is not just a survivor; she is a
mother because she was able to get
pregnant after she went into remission.
We should be supporting providers
that help women like them get the care
they need, not burdening them with re-
strictions designed to force out
Planned Parenthood or gag clauses
that prevent providers from even dis-
cussing a patient’s right to a safe, legal
abortion. Moms deserve better.
Unfortunately President Trump’s at-
tacks on women’s reproductive rights
go well beyond his changes to the title
X program. Since day one, he has been
working to jam our courts full of far-
right judges to appease extreme Repub-
licans who want to see Roe v. Wade
struck down. When President Trump
nominated Justice Kavanaugh to the
Supreme Court, we heard from women
and men across the country, concerned
about what his confirmation would
mean. Countless women shared their
personal stories about what life was
like before Roe v. Wade and what the
right to get a safe, legal abortion has
meant to their families.
So while Republicans continue to
press ahead with extreme, harmful leg-
islation—like the bill that was just
passed in Georgia—and President
Trump continues to tell outright lies
meant to demonize women and their
healthcare providers, people are going
to continue calling out those lies, call-
ing out the attempts to turn back the
clock, and standing in solidarity with
women across the country.
President Trump’s harmful attacks
on women’s healthcare are hardly the
only time he has ignored how his poli-
cies would hurt women and their fami-
lies. He has also cruelly and unneces-
sarily separated hundreds of migrant
parents and their children. Yolany is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.014 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2718 May 8, 2019
mother who is being detained in Ta-
coma, WA, while her 6-year-old son has
been sent all the way across the coun-
try to New York. According to media
reports, they were kept apart for al-
most 2 months before they were re-
united. Their story is just one of so
many pointless tragedies President
Trump’s heartless family separation
policy has caused.
Moms deserve better, especially when
there are so many other challenges on
which they need us to lead. There is
the maternal mortality crisis and the
appalling fact that our country has the
highest maternal death rate in the de-
veloped world. We know this crisis is
worse for women of color—for African-
American women in particular, who
face an even higher maternal death
rate. Because of a new report from the
Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention, we also know that three out of
five pregnancy-related deaths in our
country are preventable.
We should be working together to
take action to stop so many mothers
from dying in childbirth and building
on the $50 million Maternal Mortality
Initiative that I fought to enact in this
year’s funding bill to expand evidence-
based programs to prevent maternal
mortality and advance maternal health
equity.
There is the childcare crisis and the
reality that for far too many parents,
quality, affordable childcare is not
available. One mother in Washington
State told me how she struck out with
more than 10 childcare centers before
she finally found one that could care
for her son, and when she did find it, it
cost her more than her mortgage. We
should be working to make sure all
parents can go to work and know their
children will be well cared for.
We should also be fighting for paid
family leave so that people will have
the time they need to welcome new
members to their families and start
building those bonds that will last a
lifetime and so that no parent will
have to choose between a paycheck and
caring for a sick child.
At a time when there is so much we
could be doing to make life better for
mothers and fathers and families
across the country, it is disappointing
that President Trump has spent so
much time looking for ways to make
things worse.
While the Trump administration may
not be fighting for families, moms are.
Just last week, I attended a rally here
in Washington, DC, and met a mom
who came all the way across the coun-
try, from Washington State, to speak
up for families like hers. I know what
it is like to be in her shoes—or tennis
shoes, I should say. I also know that
when people like her speak up and fight
for change, they do make a difference,
which is why I am so inspired by the
moms whose stories I have shared
today and by the many others who
shared their stories with me back in
my home State of Washington.
I wish all the moms out there a
happy Mother’s Day. I know you are
going to keep fighting for your fami-
lies, and I want you to know we are
going to keep fighting for you.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, I
thank Senator MURRAY for organizing
all of us to come to the floor in honor
of Mother’s Day. I will take time to
talk about the ongoing attacks on
women’s health in this country.
I feel a sense of urgency about the in-
creasingly hostile, escalating, and un-
relenting attacks on women’s health
by Donald Trump and Republicans.
From continuous efforts to defund
Planned Parenthood, to the taking
away of title X funds, to trying to re-
peal the Affordable Care Act—all pro-
grams that support healthcare for mil-
lions of women in this country—I have
to ask, why? What is the motivation to
take away healthcare services for mil-
lions of women in this country? It is
not clear why they are doing this.
What is clear is the harm they are
causing women.
Repealing the Affordable Care Act
would mean that insurance plans would
no longer be required to cover mater-
nity care and birth control. Insurance
companies would be able to discrimi-
nate against people with preexisting
conditions. Astoundingly, for women,
this would include pregnancy.
Donald Trump and congressional Re-
publicans are proposing trillion-dollar
cuts to Medicaid. If implemented, this
could endanger tens of millions of
women in this country who rely on
Medicaid for coverage during preg-
nancies and births. Do they even care
that these cuts to Medicaid are par-
ticularly cruel in the face of an infant
and maternal mortality crisis in our
country, particularly for Black
women?
By establishing a gag rule, Donald
Trump is forcing healthcare providers
to choose between providing full and
accurate information on all available
healthcare options for women, includ-
ing for abortion, and hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars in Federal title X fund-
ing. States like Hawaii are refusing to
succumb to this unjustified coercion by
refusing title X funds and are replacing
them with hard-earned State funds so
that providers in our State, for exam-
ple, can give the necessary healthcare
to women.
By trying to pass onerous, new abor-
tion restrictions in States across the
country, conservative forces are work-
ing hard to undermine a woman’s con-
stitutional right to have an abortion.
One institution that can stand up to
this assault on women’s rights and
women’s health is our Federal judici-
ary. Last month, for example, a Fed-
eral judge in Washington State blocked
the implementation of the Trump ad-
ministration’s title X gag rule. In
March, a Federal judge in Kentucky
prevented a new law from going into ef-
fect that would have restricted abor-
tion after 6 weeks of pregnancy. These
two recent examples demonstrate the
importance of our courts in upholding
the Constitution and the law and in
constraining radical rightwing assaults
on women’s health and rights.
To counter what independent judges
are doing, Donald Trump, Leader
MCCONNELL, and Senate Republicans
are packing our courts with ideologi-
cally driven conservative judges who
will be on their ideological page. Over
the past 21⁄2 years, they have confirmed
more than 100 new Federal judges, an
overwhelming majority of whom was
selected by two ultraconservative orga-
nizations—the Federalist Society and
the Heritage Foundation.
Their efforts to pack the courts con-
tinue this week in an upcoming vote on
a nominee for the Second Circuit in
New York, Michael Park, who fought
to restrict access to reproductive
healthcare for women. In one recent
example, Mr. Park defended Kansas’s
attempt to defund Planned Parenthood
by terminating its Medicaid contracts.
This would have ended the vital serv-
ices Planned Parenthood provides to
low-income patients, services such as
cancer screenings and access to contra-
ception. Fortunately, the judges who
heard that case rejected Mr. Park’s ar-
guments. Yet, now, with his confirma-
tion to the Second Circuit all but as-
sured, Mr. Park is set to become the
judge in these types of cases. It is no
wonder that both of his home State
Senators oppose his nomination.
In their not being satisfied with
packing our courts with judges who
have ideologically rightwing agendas,
Donald Trump and Republican leaders
are resorting to incendiary, reprehen-
sible, and false rhetoric to inflame
their base. We have seen this most re-
cently in the debate around the so-
called Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act and the vilification of
women who seek abortions later in
pregnancy. Infanticide is already a
crime, but you would never know it if
you listened to Republican politicians
and their mouthpieces on FOX News
and the conservative media.
In a FOX News op-ed, my colleague
from Nebraska, for example, accused
the Democrats of ‘‘blurring the line be-
tween abortion and outright infan-
ticide.’’ During the debate on the bill,
ultraconservative FOX News host
Laura Ingraham compared Planned
Parenthood—the Nation’s largest ma-
ternal health provider that has saved
thousands of lives—to Adolf Hitler. She
said: ‘‘Hitler, just like Planned Parent-
hood, practiced and defended mass ex-
termination.’’
Immediately after the Senate de-
feated this unnecessary bill, Donald
Trump tweeted:
Senate Democrats just voted against legis-
lation to prevent the killing of newborn in-
fant children. The Democrat position on
abortion is now so extreme that they don’t
mind executing babies AFTER birth.
The President’s incendiary and com-
pletely false rhetoric on this issue has
become a rallying cry at his bizarre po-
litical rallies across the country. Last
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.016 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2719
May 8, 2019
month, in Green Bay, WI, for example,
he said:
The baby is born, the mother meets with
the doctor, they take care of the baby, they
wrap the baby beautifully, and then the doc-
tor and the mother determine whether or not
they will execute the baby.
This kind of rhetoric is simply out-
rageous. It is not harmless election-
eering. It is dangerous. It is incite-
ment. It is also provoking a dramatic
uptick in threats to abortion providers
and supporters of abortion rights
across the country.
This sustained rightwing attack is
taking a heavy emotional toll on
women who seek to have abortions
later in their pregnancies and the doc-
tors who provide this essential care.
Kate Carson, a woman from Boston
who sought an abortion after Laurel,
her daughter, was diagnosed with cata-
strophic brain malformations in 2012,
wrote a powerful op-ed about her pain-
ful decision.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
Kate Carson’s op-ed, dated February 19,
2019.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From USA Today, Feb. 19, 2019]
I HAD A LATER ABORTION BECAUSE I COULDN’T
GIVE MY BABY GIRL BOTH LIFE AND PEACE
(By Kate Carson, Opinion Contributor)
No one loves my baby more than I do. Her
death was a gift of mercy. Now, women like
me will always be a scapegoat for policies
limiting women’s rights.
People are talking about me again, loudly,
unkindly. Even the president of the United
States has had his say about families like
mine. I have told this story so many times,
but I will tell it again as many times as it
takes.
I help run a support group for families who
have ended pregnancy after poor prenatal or
maternal diagnoses. If you’re wondering,
‘‘Who are these women who get abortions in
the third trimester?’’ We are. I am. Parents
who love our babies with our entire hearts.
Desperate acts like an abortion in the 36th
week of pregnancy are brought about only by
the most desperate circumstances and are
only available to those who can come up
with a lot of money quickly.
I know. I’ve been there.
My daughter, Laurel, was diagnosed in
May 2012 with catastrophic brain malforma-
tions (including Dandy-Walker malforma-
tion) that were overlooked until my 35th
week of pregnancy. I did not know much
about brain disorders at that point. I imag-
ined developmental delay, special education
classes, financial pressure, an overhaul of ex-
pectations for Laurel’s life and my mother-
hood. Here were the doctors’ real expecta-
tions for Laurel: a brief life of seizures, full-
body muscle cramps, and aspirating her own
bodily fluids.
When I heard the list of all the things my
beloved daughter would not do—talk, walk,
hold her head up, swallow—I grasped for
what she would be able to do.
‘‘Do children like mine just sleep all the
time?’’ I asked.
The neurologist winced. Children like
yours, he told me—slowly—are not often
comfortable enough to sleep.
Our choice was sad—but clear.
Let me answer some questions you might
be thinking: Yes, we were sure that these
problems were severe. No, there is no cure,
nor any on the horizon. Yes, we were coun-
seled in-depth on our options, including
adoption. Because we wanted to spare our
daughter as much suffering as possible, our
choice was very sad, but crystal clear: abor-
tion.
I imagined an abortion at eight months
would be grisly. But no matter how violent
my imagination, it surely could not compare
with the suffering Laurel would have en-
dured in her own broken body.
In Massachusetts, my home state, a later
abortion can be obtained only if the life or
health of the mother is at risk. So I set off
on a 2,000-mile journey from Massachusetts
to Colorado to access this abortion. I landed,
not in the nightmare I had imagined, but in
the safest, kindest, most dignified hands I
have ever encountered as a patient any-
where. Dr. Warren Hem at his Boulder Abor-
tion Clinic is one of the few doctors in the
country performing this procedure. After a
single injection and a couple of hours, my
baby was laid to rest in my womb, the purest
mercy that I knew how to give my Laurel.
As the usual hubbub of hate and misunder-
standing around abortion swelled to a roar
this month, the president unfairly addressed
families like mine in his State of the Union
address. He hasn’t really listened to women
like me or doctors like Dr. Hem. He seems to
care nothing for the true stories of heart-
break, loss and extreme medical complexity
behind abortion later in pregnancy. Instead,
his agenda must inflate fear and horror until
every last American thinks of unspeakable
violence.
Mercy means something different to each
family.
This is not about abortion. It is about
power. This administration needs the public
to be angry at women like me and mis-
informed about what compels women to seek
later abortions, which make up less than 1.5
percent of abortions, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention. But
I believe that Americans can hear our story
and meet the painful, complicated truth
about abortions later in pregnancy with love
and understanding.
And most Americans have compassion for
a woman’s choice when it comes to her re-
productive health care. In fact, nearly 70 per-
cent of Americans do not want to see the Su-
preme Court completely overturn Roe v.
Wade, according to the Pew Research Center.
Nobody loves Laurel more than I do. Her
death was a gift of mercy. Mercy means dif-
ferent things to different loving families,
and that has to be OK. To all the families
who faced similar circumstances and made a
different choice, I honor you. I trust your
wisdom. I celebrate your child’s brief and
beautiful life.
We must treat each other with love, ten-
derness and respect. It is horrible, as a par-
ent, to choose between life and peace for our
children, especially when we want to give
our children both beautiful and precious
gifts.
It is devastating to lose a child. But, un-
like most bereaved parents, women like me
will live out the rest of our lives as scape-
goats, fuel for an agenda that seeks to strip
women and families of our reproductive free-
doms.
When I think of my baby Laurel, I feel love
and peace. Unfortunately, I cannot be with
that peace because there are fresh wounds in
the way, the throbbing pain of being hated
and misunderstood.
Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, here
is some of what Kate wrote:
I help run a support group for families who
have ended pregnancy after poor prenatal or
maternal diagnoses. If you’re wondering,
‘‘Who are these women who get abortions in
the third trimester?’’ We are. I am. Parents
who love our babies with our entire hearts.
Desperate acts like an abortion in the 36th
week of pregnancy are brought about only by
the most desperate circumstances and are
only available to those who can come up
with a lot of money quickly.
I know. I’ve been there.
My daughter, Laurel, was diagnosed in
May 2012 with catastrophic brain malforma-
tions . . . that were overlooked until my
35th week of pregnancy.
I did not know much about brain disorders
at that point. I imagined developmental
delay, special education classes, financial
pressure, an overhaul of expectations for
Laurel’s life and my motherhood. Here were
the doctors’ real expectations for Laurel: a
brief life of seizures, full-body muscle
cramps, and aspirating her own bodily fluids.
It is devastating to lose a child. But, un-
like most bereaved parents, women like me
will live out the rest of our lives as scape-
goats, fuel for an agenda that seeks to strip
women and families of our reproductive free-
doms.
Madam President, it is outrageous
and offensive that Donald Trump and
his allies in Congress would seek to
turn women like Kate into scapegoats
for their political agendas.
I have been an advocate of abortion
rights for decades, and I fear that one
day soon, women in this country will
wake up and realize they no longer
have control over their own bodies.
What could be more intrusive than the
government’s telling women what they
can do with their own bodies?
In the face of these ongoing attacks
on women’s health and women’s rights,
we will continue to raise our voices. We
will continue to fight back.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise
to speak about the pending nomina-
tions. I will have comments on both.
First, I ask unanimous consent that
both sets of remarks appear in separate
parts of the RECORD that are relevant
to those nominations.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
come to the floor this afternoon to join
my colleagues in raising concerns
about the unrelenting attacks that this
administration has waged on the
health of women in New Hampshire and
across the country.
With Mother’s Day just around the
corner, it is important to make clear
that we cannot stand idly by while the
administration undermines access to
maternity care, to family planning,
and to reproductive care for women.
Through misguided executive orders,
regulations, and other actions, this ad-
ministration is making it more dif-
ficult for women to access the care and
services they need in communities
across the country and abroad.
Now, new mothers deal with signifi-
cant medical expenses. That is why we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.017 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2720 May 8, 2019
worked very hard, when we were writ-
ing the Affordable Care Act, to require
insurance coverage for maternity care,
to help new mothers cover the cost of
obstetric services and of hospital
charges for childbirth and other ex-
penses.
The Affordable Care Act and the ac-
cess to maternity care coverage it pro-
vides have made a real difference for so
many people in New Hampshire and
across the country.
One of those women is Samantha Fox
from Bow, NH. Samantha is now a
State legislator in New Hampshire, but
prior to the Affordable Care Act,
Samantha was denied coverage for
health insurance because of a reproduc-
tive system disorder, and the insurance
that she was able to get didn’t provide
prenatal and maternity care coverage.
Well, thanks to the ACA, she was
guaranteed coverage of these vital ma-
ternity care services that were so im-
portant when she gave birth to her son
Leo in 2017.
We can’t go back to those days before
the Affordable Care Act, when only 12
percent of health plans on the indi-
vidual market covered maternity care
or when women could be charged high-
er premiums than men for the very
same coverage.
But that is exactly what the Trump
administration is trying to do by ex-
panding the availability of junk plans
that are not required to cover mater-
nity care, and that is what this admin-
istration is trying to do by urging the
courts to strike down the Affordable
Care Act in its entirety.
Now, in addition, at a time when 43
percent of childbirths in this country
are covered and paid for by the Med-
icaid Program, the Trump administra-
tion continues to propose Medicaid
block grants and funding caps that
would fail to adequately support States
for the cost of coverage for pregnant
women and new mothers.
Senator CASEY was very eloquent in
talking about what will happen if the
effort to reduce Medicaid is successful.
Sadly, the barriers to women’s
healthcare that this administration
has created go beyond just insurance
coverage. They are also imposing sig-
nificant impediments to access to fam-
ily planning services.
The administration’s title X gag rule
would violate the provider-patient re-
lationship by prohibiting providers who
receive Federal family planning grants
from informing their patients about re-
productive health options, including
safe and legal abortions.
In 2017, more than 16,000 Granite
Staters obtained care from family
planning providers that receive support
through Federal title X family plan-
ning grants. This includes more than
1,200 cervical cancer screenings and
nearly 1,500 breast exams that were
provided by New Hampshire’s Planned
Parenthood facilities that, if this gag
rule is allowed to stand, would then be
eliminated, and women would have to
get those screenings somewhere else,
and in many cases, the women would
not be able to afford the cost of those
screenings. The title X gag rule puts
access to these and so many other vital
services at risk.
The administration’s barriers to fam-
ily planning services extend around the
world as a result of a similar global gag
rule on international family planning
grants.
Based on the unfortunate experience
with the global gag rule, we already
know that when you exclude entities
like Planned Parenthood and other
providers from family planning grants,
you will impede access to care for vul-
nerable women in impoverished coun-
tries around the world, and we are now
beginning to get the data from so many
NGOs that provide those services.
It is ironic because people in this ad-
ministration who say they support the
gag rule say they do it because they
are trying to reduce the number of
abortions. Yet what we know is that
putting on this global gag rule in-
creases the number of unwarranted
pregnancies, increases the number of
unsafe abortions, and increases the
number of maternal deaths in child-
birth. I don’t understand why the data
is not convincing to those people who
share the view that we should try to re-
duce the number of unwarranted preg-
nancies and reduce the number of abor-
tions. That is why, each year, I have
come together with Senators COLLINS
and MURKOWSKI to lead a bipartisan
charge to repeal the global gag rule
and to bolster resources for inter-
national family planning. Hopefully,
we will be able to pass that again this
year.
In light of all of these dangerous ef-
forts to erode protections for women’s
health, we need to stand together here
in Congress. We need to join forces
with women around the country and
around the world. We need to say
enough is enough. Women should be
able to access health insurance for re-
productive services and for family
planning services, just as men can ac-
cess health insurance for all of the
services they need.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Con-
necticut.
IRAQ
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, over
the Easter recess, Senator ROMNEY and
I had the privilege to visit our troops
and our diplomats in Iraq. They are
serving us well, and they are putting
their lives on the line as we partner
with the Iraqis to make sure that ISIS
does not reconstitute itself in Iraq or
in Syria. We have taken their territory
away from them, but there are still
over 20,000 or so ISIS fighters and loy-
alists in and around the region.
Once again, our trip proved to both of
us that our soldiers and our diplomats
are the best in the world. We are so
lucky to have them be so willing to
stand on guard for us all over the
world. It may be the most important
assignment today in Iraq as we con-
tinue to battle the scattered remnants
of ISIS.
I don’t want a President who takes
the unquestioning advice of his mili-
tary leaders. I want a President who is
willing to push back. But nobody
knows how to defeat ISIS better than
the U.S. military. They effectively
have done it twice. They beat al-Qaida
in Iraq, and then they came back again
with many partners to take territory
away from ISIS. Nobody takes more se-
riously the threat of ISIS’s reemer-
gence or the threat of an expansionist
Iran than the U.S. military. But I am
here today to talk about our Presi-
dent’s refusal, over and over again, to
listen to the advice that he is being
given by his generals and by his advis-
ers at the Department of Defense. In-
stead, he is listening to the Iraq hawks
inside the White House who think
about this problem through the air-
conditioned safety of their West Wing
offices with little regard to how things
actually work in the real world on the
ground of the Middle East.
I want to talk about our two main
objectives today in Iraq and in Iran,
and I want to frame this in the context
of today’s disastrous news that the Ira-
nians are restarting elements of their
nuclear weapons program.
First, let’s talk about a bipartisan
commitment that we share, and that is
the commitment to stop Iran from ob-
taining a nuclear weapon. In and of
itself, it would be a world disaster. It
would present an immediate existen-
tial threat to our partners in Israel,
and it would result in an arms race
throughout the region that would be
exacerbated by the fact that in the last
2 years, the Trump administration has
made the decision to engage in a new
nuclear partnership with the Saudis,
which puts the Saudis on a quicker
path to obtaining a nuclear weapon in
case that arms race sets off.
What the Trump administration has
done is to goad Iran into restarting
their nuclear weapons program. They
announced last night that they are
pulling out of their side of the Iran nu-
clear agreement and that they are
going to start to, once again, take
steps that could lead them to a quick
breakout to a nuclear weapon.
Those who opposed the agreement
that President Obama signed did so, in
part, because they said that it could
allow Iran to restart its nuclear weap-
ons program in 10 to 13 years and that
10 to 13 years wasn’t enough security to
sign on to that agreement. Well, Presi-
dent Trump has now managed to press
the Iranians into restarting their nu-
clear weapons program in 4 years. We
didn’t get 10 years; we didn’t get 13
years; we got 4 years, and Iran is back
on a potential path to a nuclear weap-
on.
The President will say that he is im-
posing crippling new sanctions on Iran,
such that they will come back to the
negotiating table. But let’s be honest.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.019 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2721
May 8, 2019
There is not a plausible path for that
to happen in the next year and a half of
the President’s term. It took President
Obama two terms to engage in multi-
lateral sanctions to get the Iranians to
the negotiating table. There are no
credible analysts of Iranian behavior or
of politics in the Middle East that will
tell you that the Iranians are going to
come back to the negotiating table in
the next 12 months, in part, because
the balance of powers has totally
flipped.
Under the Obama administration, it
was the United States, Europe, China,
and Russia on one side and the Iranians
on the other side. President Trump has
managed to flip that alignment, such
that it is now the Iranians, the Euro-
peans, the Chinese, and the Russians on
one side and the United States isolated
on the other. If you don’t believe me,
just take a look at the statements that
many of those parties sent out in re-
sponse to Iran’s decision last night, ef-
fectively aligning themselves with the
Iranians’ decision to restart their nu-
clear program instead of aligning
themselves, as they had for years, with
the U.S. position of strict nonprolifera-
tion.
It is a disaster for the United States
that Iran has restarted its nuclear
weapons program. It is a massive fail-
ure of President Trump’s strategy, but
it is only one element of a meandering
Iranian strategy that is accruing to the
national security detriment of the
United States.
Let’s talk about our second primary
objective in this region. I referenced it
at the outset. It is to prevent the re-
emergence and reconstitution of ISIS
inside Iraq and Syria. We have bad
news to report there as well.
The Trump administration took an-
other step that had been counseled
against by his generals and by his mili-
tary leaders, and that is the designa-
tion of the IRGC—an element of the
Iranian military—as a terrorist group.
Now, nobody could come to this floor
and defend the actions of Iran or the
IRGC. They have absolutely supported
terrorism in the region for years. They
supported Shia militias inside Iraq
that were shooting at and killing
American troops. Yet, notwithstanding
that activity, our military leaders and
our diplomats inside Iraq cautioned the
administration against making this
designation because weighing the costs
of it against the benefits to our mili-
tary leaders was a clear case.
The costs are this: By telling these
militias inside Iran that they have to
make a choice today between the
United States and this newly des-
ignated terrorist group, the Iranian mi-
litias make the choice easily. They
align themselves with Iran, their
neighbor, not the United States. The
effect of our decision is to push more of
these militia groups closer to the Ira-
nians.
Second, we no longer can talk dip-
lomatically to the groups that have as-
sociations with the IRGC, and that is a
lot of these militia groups. That means
that the United States effectively
takes itself out of the game diplomati-
cally. We no longer have the ability to
engage in political reconciliation in
the country like we used to.
All of this presses the case of ISIS, as
they are able to make the case that
Baghdad is more and more leaning to-
ward Shia interests and Iranian inter-
ests. As the United States isn’t there in
order to press the reconciliation case,
ISIS has an opportunity to reemerge.
All of this also accrues to the benefit of
those interested in Iraq who want the
U.S. military out.
Just months ago there was an effort
to push a bill through Parliament to
expel the United States and our contin-
ued hard line on Iran. As much as it
may make sense to the air-conditioned
offices of the White House to allow
those interests in Iraq to, potentially,
successfully litigate the case to push
the U.S. military out of that country,
it would, once again, open the gates to
ISIS.
As far as I can tell, the administra-
tion’s policy is to set in motion a series
of escalatory actions with respect to
Iran that has no end game with no log-
ical conclusion. There isn’t a diplo-
matic process at the end of this rain-
bow. The President has a year and a
half left in his term. There isn’t
enough time, and there is no willing-
ness in Iran and no partners on our
side, as I have mentioned.
So what is the other alternative—
military action? An invasion of Iran
would be an unmitigated national secu-
rity disaster. It would make the mis-
take of invading Iraq look positively
benign, in retrospect. There is no appe-
tite in America for such an endeavor,
and there is no way the votes exist in
Congress to authorize such an action.
The risk, of course, is that we fall
into war by accident or through a se-
ries of events that appear as an acci-
dent. When you commit yourself to
such an unplanned and unscripted se-
ries of military and diplomatic esca-
lations, as the Trump administration
has, and you have no working channel
of communication to settle misunder-
standings, then accidents can easily
happen. Shots can be fired; lives can be
lost, and then our options suddenly
narrow. That is the real risk of the
path we are on today. What scares the
heck out of me is that it is a path that
is seemingly being made up day by day,
and it is a path that is opposed by our
military and that is laid out without
any meaningful input from our dip-
lomats who are on the ground in the
region. That is a potential recipe for
disaster.
It shouldn’t matter whether you are
a Democrat or a Republican, a liberal
or a conservative because messing
around in the Middle East, in countries
like Iran and Iraq, with no strategy
and no clear set of goals should send
chills down every Senator’s spine.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF JANET DHILLON
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I want to
say a few words about the nomination
of Janet Dhillon to be Chair of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, which we know by the short-
hand EEOC. I will vote against her
nomination. I have voted against it in
the past in committee.
But let me tell you about the EEOC.
We need a little reminder of this once
in a while. It is a bipartisan Commis-
sion that for decades has worked to
protect American workers from dis-
crimination in the workplace—all
kinds of discrimination.
Many lawyers know that if you bring
an action in a State court or in a Fed-
eral court, the first step is that you
have to go through all of your adminis-
trative remedies. So if you bring a Fed-
eral lawsuit or a civil action based
upon discrimination, the first thing
you have to do is to go to the EEOC.
Before you can get to a Federal district
court, you have to go through the
EEOC. So it becomes the first court, in
essence. It is not technically a court,
but it becomes the first place you go to
have your ‘‘discrimination in the work-
place’’ claim considered.
During that time, since the founding
or the beginnings of the EEOC, people
in both parties in the Senate have
worked together to move forward
nominees from both parties in tandem
so the Commission could continue its
essential work.
Today this bipartisan process is
being cast aside by the majority in the
Senate because no Democratic nominee
is being considered along with Janet
Dhillon, who has been proposed by the
administration. My colleagues in the
majority have decided to abandon this
bipartisan cooperation.
We know that the EEOC plays a crit-
ical role in protecting workers from all
forms—all forms—of workplace dis-
crimination and in ensuring that all
workers have equal access to employ-
ment opportunities.
Another point that is important is
that the EEOC is currently in the mid-
dle of collecting data on pay gaps faced
by women in the workplace, and the
EEOC’s leadership is badly needed so
that we can work to eliminate work-
place sexual harassment—still a big
problem where we have a long way to
go.
So instead of working with Demo-
crats to make their sure that all—all—
EEOC positions are filled so the Com-
mission can undertake this work, the
majority is instead working only to ad-
vance the Republican nominees put for-
ward by the White House.
This is not how the Senate should
work. It certainly is not how the Sen-
ate should work as it relates to the
EEOC, and the most significant losers
here are American workers. They will
pay the price because of the EEOC not
having more nominations that are bi-
partisan.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.031 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2722 May 8, 2019
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 6 min-
utes on the Dhillon nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor to oppose the nomination
of Janet Dhillon to the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission.
I have a number of concerns about
her record, which I plan to lay out here
today, but before I do, I want to talk
about the process by which this nomi-
nation has come to the Senate floor.
It has long been common practice in
the Senate to confirm nominees to
independent agencies as pairs—one Re-
publican and one Democrat.
We do this so agencies like the EEOC
are balanced and are able to fully func-
tion no matter which party is in the
White House. In the case of the EEOC,
it ensures workers are being protected
from discrimination in the workplace.
Yet, at every opportunity, Repub-
licans have broken norms and aban-
doned longstanding practices to jam
through their nominees. First it was
the National Labor Relations Board,
when my colleagues across the aisle
jammed through two Republican nomi-
nees without any Democrats and then
refused to give a highly qualified nomi-
nee another term on the Board—all be-
cause that highly qualified nominee
was fighting on the side of workers, not
corporations. Then one lone Repub-
lican was allowed to object to the re-
confirmation of a well-respected Com-
missioner to another term on the
EEOC, even if that meant the EEOC
would no longer have a quorum and be
able to perform some of its most crit-
ical duties.
I came down to the floor to urge our
colleagues to end the partisan obstruc-
tion and pass a slate of nominees to the
EEOC, but Republican leaders allowed
one Republican Member’s opposition to
a noncontroversial nominee to hold
more weight than the entire Senate
minority.
Now, here we are today, and Repub-
licans want to jam through another
nominee without their Democratic
pair, and by doing this, my colleagues
across the aisle have now abandoned
longstanding norms of the Senate and
are once again sending a message to
the most vulnerable workers they be-
lieve the corporations that discrimi-
nate against them deserve more of a
say.
This is unacceptable and goes against
the core of the EEOC. It is illegal to
discriminate against someone in the
workplace because of their race, reli-
gion, sex, disability, or because they
are LGBTQ. It is the EEOC’s responsi-
bility to enforce those laws and to give
every person the opportunity to earn a
living without fear of discrimination or
harassment.
The EEOC protects LGBTQ rights in
the workplace and is the primary agen-
cy addressing the gender pay gap. The
EEOC is responsible for addressing har-
assment in the workplace, an issue our
country has been grappling with but
still has a long way to go. Over the
past 2 years, as so many brave women
and men have spoken out and shared
their stories, we have seen a shift in
this country toward acknowledging, fi-
nally, the epidemic of harassment and
assault in workplaces, and finally we
are beginning to address it on a large
scale. In Hollywood, the media, even in
the Halls of Congress—those who have
used their position of power to prey on
the less powerful are finally being held
accountable.
Workers in industries outside the
spotlight, in hospitality or farm fields,
and in offices around the country are
waiting for the same kind of reckoning.
For many of these workers, the EEOC
is one of the few places they can turn.
It is a resource for workers who want
to file complaints and hold employers
and businesses accountable for dis-
crimination and harassment. This issue
should matter to everyone—Democrats
and Republicans—and this critical civil
rights agency should be able to stay
out of the political fray too. We have
to ensure that the EEOC is balanced
and remains committed to its core mis-
sion.
Unfortunately, Janet Dhillon’s
record proves she is not going to stand
up for workers. Ms. Dhillon has spent
her career working on the side of cor-
porations, making it easier for them to
violate workers’ rights without con-
sequence. She has fought against posi-
tions the EEOC has taken that help en-
sure workers have the protections they
need.
In her confirmation hearing, she re-
fused to commit to maintaining the
EEOC’s current and critical position
that LGBTQ workers are protected
under the Civil Rights Act, which is
something, by the way, that should not
be up for debate.
So what we are seeing today is an-
other power grab by Republican lead-
ers, another Republican step toward
partisanship and away from balance,
and if Ms. Dhillon is confirmed, an-
other step backward under Republican
leadership for workers who simply
want to be treated fairly on the job, es-
pecially those workers who historically
have not had the rights or resources to
come forward.
I urge the Senate leadership to post-
pone this vote and work with the White
House to get our Democratic nominee
ready for confirmation—she is wait-
ing—so there is no other break in yet
another Senate tradition. It is bad for
workers. It is bad for our country.
I yield the floor.
VOTE ON DHILLON NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, will the Senate advise and
consent to the Dhillon nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior legislative clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO), and the
Senator from Florida (Mr. SCOTT).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. SCOTT) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA), are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 50,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 104 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Sinema
The nomination was confirmed.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michael H. Park, of New York, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Sec-
ond Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, Tom Cotton, John
Boozman, Mitt Romney, Roy Blunt,
Joni Ernst, Mike Braun, Thom Tillis,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.033 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2723
May 8, 2019
John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Johnny
Isakson, Mike Rounds, James E. Risch,
John Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Roger F.
Wicker, John Barrasso.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that the nomination of Michael
H. Park, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. SCOTT).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. SCOTT) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 105 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Bennet
Booker
Klobuchar
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Sinema
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 43.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Michael H. Park, of New
York, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, this
week, we know that the Senate is con-
sidering the nomination of Michael
Park, who has been nominated by the
President to serve on the Court of Ap-
peals for the Second Circuit. I have a
number of concerns with Mr. Park’s
nomination and his record. I will high-
light just one that I think is a major
concern for many Americans.
In 2011, Mr. Park submitted an ami-
cus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court,
arguing that the Affordable Care Act’s
Medicaid expansion was unconstitu-
tional. That is the argument he made.
He claimed that the Medicaid expan-
sion provision coerced States into ac-
cepting a ‘‘greatly enlarged Medicaid
program.’’ I will come back to that
later because those words are impor-
tant. The rationale for this, he as-
serted, was that these States could not
realistically opt out. Obviously, I dis-
agree with his argument, and I disagree
with his rationale. Yet I want to talk
about the program and, more impor-
tantly, the people who will be affected
by his point of view on this policy if he
is to be successful in his arguments.
If he is to be confirmed, I have a real
concern about how he will make deci-
sions as a judge as they relate to
healthcare, Medicaid expansion, and
related topics.
So I am not going to go through the
legal arguments, but I do want to talk
about Medicaid expansion, the impor-
tance of it, and the people it helps. Ev-
eryone here knows that Medicaid itself
has been a program that we have en-
joyed the benefits of for more than 50
years. Right now, about 75 million peo-
ple are covered by Medicaid. Approxi-
mately 17 million of those individuals
are eligible because of Medicaid expan-
sion. So millions of people got
healthcare because of the Medicaid ex-
pansion part of the Affordable Care
Act.
Medicaid itself covers 38 percent of
the 1.9 million people younger than age
65 who are battling an opioid addiction.
So 38 percent of the 1.9 million people
are helped who are in the grip of that
addiction. That affects every State,
every community, and, increasingly,
virtually every family, or at least we
all seem to know someone who has
been adversely impacted by an opioid
addiction or a substance use disorder
issue.
So 38 percent is almost 4 in 10. So 4
in 10 people who need that help are
benefiting from Medicaid itself because
of Medicaid expansion.
A lot of politicians in Washington
tried to convince people, both here and
around the country, that Medicaid was
about some other person over there,
some person that you didn’t know,
some person that you may not have to
be too concerned about, or so the argu-
ment went—that Medicaid was not
about you or your family. It was about
some other person. The implicit mes-
sage was this: Don’t worry about them.
They probably don’t need it, and you
can vote for repeal and everything will
be OK for the country.
Well, we know now better than ever,
probably, in the last 2 years since that
debate and the ongoing debate we had
starting in 2017 and a debate, frankly,
that has been playing out over many
years, that Medicaid is not a program
for someone else. It is an ‘‘us’’ pro-
gram. Medicaid is about us, about who
we are as a country. It tells us a lot
about our values—whom we value, for
whom we will fight, and whom we
stand up for.
Medicaid provides coverage—basi-
cally, if you wanted to simplify it—for
three groups of Americans: seniors,
kids, and people with disabilities.
In my home State of Pennsylvania,
Medicaid could be simplified this way.
It is an oversimplification, but it is a
good way to describe it in numerical
terms. Medicaid is a 40, 50, 60 pro-
gram—40, 50, 60, pretty easy to remem-
ber.
Forty percent of all the births in
Pennsylvania—the national number is
actually higher—and roughly 40 per-
cent of all the kids in our State have
Medicaid. The 50 is when you look at
this through the lens of individuals
with disabilities—certainly, for chil-
dren with disabilities. It is actually 54
percent of children with disabilities in
Pennsylvania who get Medicaid. It is a
big number, and those families don’t
want to hear talk of repeal or talk of
eliminating Medicaid expansion or talk
of in any way undermining Medicaid
itself.
How about 60? Where does the 60
come in the 40, 50, 60 equation? The 60
are people in nursing homes. So there
are a lot of families out there who may
not have realized before but certainly
after 2017 and 2018 that their loved
one—their mom or their dad or their
grandparent or relative, or their grand-
mother or grandfather—was getting
into a nursing home in many cases
solely—solely—because of the Medicaid
Program. They couldn’t get there any
other way. They couldn’t afford it un-
less you could shell out tens and tens
of thousands of dollars a year for long-
term care.
So Medicaid affects that many people
just in Pennsylvania—literally mil-
lions in our State. That is just one
State. The numbers are very similar
across the country.
The exact numbers for Medicaid ex-
pansion in Pennsylvania exceed 700,000.
So after the Affordable Care Act was
passed and then implemented after
2010, over the course of several years
we gained coverage in Pennsylvania of
over 1.1 million people—a big number.
Unfortunately, because of the admin-
istration’s sabotage over the last 2
years, that number has gone down. It is
still above 1.1 million, but it is going
down.
The Medicaid expansion part of that,
of course, was over 700,000 people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.036 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2724 May 8, 2019
Now comes the administration’s
budget—this current budget proposal
by the administration, which I predict
will be rejected by the Congress. But
we have to make sure it gets rejected
because one of the proposals in that
budget is to cut Medicaid by a trillion
and a half—$1.5 trillion—over 10 years.
The other reality here is that the of-
ficial Republican position on the Af-
fordable Care Act and related issues is
that they, the Republican Members of
Congress, want to eliminate Medicaid
expansion over time—not just to cut it,
not to change it, but to eliminate it.
They want to eliminate Medicaid ex-
pansion, and, of course, based upon the
$1.5 trillion proposed cut, along with
other proposals, one after another,
they want to cut Medicaid itself.
So when Mr. Park uses words like his
concern about the Medicaid expansion
being greatly enlarged Medicaid pro-
grams, or the program itself, overall, I
worry what he might do as a judge, not
just on Medicaid expansion, but what
he might do and decisions he might
make based upon Medicaid itself.
So my original concerns about his ar-
guments about the Affordable Care Act
are now greatly and significantly in-
creased because of what he has said
about Medicaid itself, indirectly saying
that he is not sure whether Medicaid
itself would be worthy of the kind of
support that it is going to require over
time.
So I have real concerns on Medicaid.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
back in 1876, Ann Reeves Jarvis was
teaching her Sunday school class about
notable mothers in the Bible. She
ended that class with this prayer:
I hope and pray that someone, sometime,
will found a memorial mother’s day com-
memorating her for the matchless service
she renders to humanity in every field of life.
She is entitled to it.
That was the prayer of Ann Reeves
Jarvis. Her 12-year-old daughter Anna,
who was then a student in the class,
took that prayer to heart and went on
to help establish Mother’s Day in the
United States in 1914.
As we approach Mother’s Day this
upcoming Sunday, I am gathered with
many of my Senate colleagues to urge
our Republican friends here in the Sen-
ate to reject many of the policies com-
ing down from the Trump administra-
tion that put women’s health and well-
being at risk. Americans need access to
family planning services. An invest-
ment in family planning is money well
spent because it helps families cope
with reproductive health planning and
can help prevent health crises. This is
a win-win for those who receive these
services and for all Americans who, in
the long run, must pay for health serv-
ices that are the inevitable result of
neglect and failure to provide resources
for family planning.
While the Trump administration
would have you believe that their ef-
forts are solely focused on eliminating
access to abortion, the reality is their
actions are harmful to a broad array of
family planning services. For example,
just in 2017, the administration tried to
eliminate the Teen Pregnancy Preven-
tion Program grants more than a year
early. I want to point out that the city
of Baltimore had one of those grants,
and with the help of programming from
the Teen Pregnancy and Prevention
Program, Baltimore saw a 61-percent
drop in teen pregnancy between the
years 2000 and 2016. The good news is
that the city of Baltimore and other
grantees prevailed in Federal court, so
that money was restored.
We now see repeated steps by the
Trump administration through its re-
cent title X Federal rulemaking that
represent another attempt to restrict
access to quality, affordable reproduc-
tive healthcare and prevent women
from receiving the information they
need to make informed decisions for
themselves about their healthcare. It
would jeopardize the entire title X
health network.
Specifically, the rule would block the
availability of Federal funds to family
planning providers, even if those fam-
ily planning providers separately offer
access to abortion services. In other
words, despite the fact that Federal
law is already crystal clear about no
public funds being used to pay for abor-
tion, the administration policy would
ignore that reality.
Under the status quo, title X-funded
clinics that provide abortion must keep
those services financially separate
from their title X activities. So this
rule would interfere with the ability of
women throughout America to get that
unbiased family planning service and
counseling. The rule would specifically
prohibit any referral for abortion serv-
ices and end the longstanding guar-
antee that pregnant title X patients re-
ceive comprehensive, unbiased coun-
seling.
A primary goal of this regulation—
and there has been no secret about
this—is to prevent Federal funds from
going to comprehensive family plan-
ning providers, like Planned Parent-
hood, with little or no regard for the
impact this has on women throughout
the country—and men and families. In
fact, Planned Parenthood provides
health services to 4 in 10 women in
America. For many women and men,
Planned Parenthood is the only source
of care in their community.
I want to recount a couple of stories
I have received from my Maryland con-
stituents. One is from Caitlyn. She
lives in Severna Park. She shared with
me the impact that Planned Parent-
hood had in her life. She says that
while growing up, she did not have a
basic education when it came to repro-
ductive health services and options.
She writes:
I knew I wasn’t getting the whole story
and I decided [to] do my own research.
Planned Parenthood had the answers to my
questions with no agenda, just facts.
She went on to share a different first-
hand experience she had with Planned
Parenthood as a patient.
I needed services that were quick, afford-
able, and compassionate, and that’s exactly
what I received. When it came time to pay
my bill, I was surprised to find that they just
asked for a small donation. This donation-
for-services is possible through Title X. Be-
cause of Title X, patients like me and more
than 30,000 other Marylanders can access
care, no matter what, regardless of our abil-
ity to pay.
That was Caitlyn.
I also heard from Tamara from Ta-
koma Park, MD. She moved back to
Maryland to care for her aging mother
and accepted her dream job. Her dream
job was directing a training and edu-
cation fund for healthcare workers.
She hesitated to accept her dream job
because the employer-provided insur-
ance plan was grandfathered into pre-
Affordable Care Act regulations, mean-
ing that her preferred form of birth
control wasn’t covered. Her prescrip-
tion would cost her $125 a month,
something she could not afford.
Through her local Planned Parenthood,
she was able to get the prescription for
$20 a month. She wrote to me saying:
Without my local Title X-funded commu-
nity clinic, I—a graduate of Wellesley Col-
lege, a Master’s Degree holder, an engaged
community member, a daughter, a pas-
sionate person on a meaningful career path—
would be unable to afford my prescription,
leaving me in the uncomfortable and, quite
frankly, unfair position of having to choose
between my health or quality of life.
If you look at these stories, you will
find that the proposed regulations com-
ing down from the Trump administra-
tion prioritize ideology over patient
health and safety and fiction over
healthcare facts. So that is something
about title X.
I want to say a word about the Af-
fordable Care Act, as well, and the im-
portant protections it provides for peo-
ple throughout our country, but I want
to focus for a minute on the protec-
tions it provides to women.
It became the law of the land 9 years
ago. I don’t think any of us expected
we would still be fighting as hard as we
are to try to protect those essential
healthcare protections. Despite the
failure in this body and this Senate
just last year to overturn the Afford-
able Care Act, we still see a constant
effort from the administration, both
through nonstop, harmful, regulatory
efforts and a wholesale effort through
the Federal courts. So I think it is im-
portant to remind all of us about what
the consequences of stripping away all
those protections would be. With re-
spect to women’s healthcare, it would
do away with the provision that re-
quires coverage of maternity care as an
essential health benefit. It would re-
verse the provisions that ended gender
discrimination, which previously al-
lowed insurance companies to charge
women higher premiums than men for
their healthcare. It also would elimi-
nate the requirement to provide cov-
erage for preventive health services
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.038 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2725
May 8, 2019
like mammograms, screenings for cer-
vical cancer, prenatal care, and regular
well-baby and well-child visits with no
cost-sharing.
So it is important, as we look at the
ongoing efforts to sabotage the Afford-
able Care Act in pieces or get rid of it
wholesale, that the consequences of
getting rid of that for women’s health
would be devastating.
I heard from a constituent at that
time; her name was Pamela. She had
aged off her parents’ insurance in col-
lege and became uninsured and, there-
fore, put off her medical care until she
ended up in the emergency room, had
to declare bankruptcy to get out from
under her medical bills. She wrote me
during that debate over the Affordable
Care Act, as follows:
Today my asthma medicine is covered with
a nominal copay. I can see my doctor before
a case of bronchitis becomes something
worse, and I do not need to go to the ER for
treatment. Now I have a twenty year old in
college who has pre-existing conditions, un-
like me she is still covered under our health
insurance and her prescriptions are afford-
able. What happens to me, my daughter, and
my husband who all have pre-existing condi-
tions if our insurance is allowed to go back
to the old days of charging more for our cov-
erage? What happens to my daughter if she
can no longer be on our policy?
Like many of us, I have other stories
I have received from Marylanders who
are either worried about losing their
access to healthcare through title X or
worried about losing coverage under
the Affordable Care Act. I hope, as we
reflect on all of the challenges we are
facing and as we honor mothers on
Mother’s Day, we don’t support actions
that would actually degrade their ac-
cess to important quality healthcare.
I will close by urging my colleagues
to reflect on the words of Ann Reeves
Jarvis, who I mentioned earlier was the
one who had uttered that prayer that
led to the establishment of Mother’s
Day. What she also said was that we
need to honor the ‘‘matchless service’’
that mothers and other women in this
country ‘‘render to humanity in every
field of life.’’
I believe it is our obligation to make
sure we provide access to quality
healthcare and choices for all of our
constituents and for every American.
As we reflect on Mother’s Day, be very
aware of the impact our actions will
have on women throughout the United
States.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that with respect
to the Dhillon nomination, the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table and that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS WEEK
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, this week
is Small Business Week.
For over a half a century now, the
country has officially recognized Small
Business Week, but in our country,
small businesses have always ac-
counted for and still account for most
of the jobs created—certainly, for most
of the new jobs created. In Missouri,
that is absolutely the case. We ought
to be doing all we can to create an en-
vironment in which people can get
those new jobs and often get their first
jobs, and I think we are doing that.
There is nothing better for small
business than a strong overall econ-
omy. Almost daily now, we see some
new number that sets a new record for
the last 40 years or maybe for the last
50 years. In the case of the unemploy-
ment number, just this week, for the
13th month in a row, we have had more
jobs available than people who have
been looking for work, and that had
never happened a single time—not one
single time—until 13 months ago. The
best thing, obviously, for small busi-
ness is to be part of a growing econ-
omy, a vibrant economy. We are seeing
that, and there are reasons for that.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 is
one of those. Almost every small busi-
ness now pays less in taxes on its busi-
ness than it did before. Businesses are
allowed to fully deduct the cost of new
equipment so they can reinvest and re-
invent and grow their businesses. That
means more jobs.
The tax cuts also allow people to
keep more of their money, and that
means they have more of their money
to spend. In my State of Missouri, we
found that in the first 12 months of the
tax cut—so these numbers are now
about 6 months old, and I think, if any-
thing, they have gotten better—the
sales tax and use tax were up 2.5 per-
cent.
We know the last quarter of the over-
all gross domestic product was up 3.2
percent, but 2.5 percent of real growth
in just tax income is one of the ways
one measures whether people are
spending their money or not, and they
are.
People in this economy feel more
confident about their jobs, and that
makes a big difference. In the previous
8 or 10 years, the fear that people had
of losing their jobs has really gone.
People now go to work believing there
is a better chance they will get pro-
motions than they will lose their jobs,
and that makes a real difference. So we
have done things that are helpful in
cutting taxes.
We have also done things that are
helpful in reducing regulation. The
President has been particularly helpful
in leading the recovery after removing
regulatory redtape. Actually, small
businesses are much more affected by
regulatory redtape than are big busi-
nesses. Big businesses can hire some-
body to go through the regulations and
stay totally focused on that, and small
businesses can’t. If you are afraid you
are going to violate some Federal regu-
lation, you are less likely to go ahead
and make the kind of investment you
would like to make than you otherwise
would be. We have also created more
access to credit by cutting down some
of the overregulation of community
banks.
There is more we ought to be doing.
One thing we could have that a lot of
small businesses could really benefit
from is the New Markets Tax Credit
Program. This is a program that was
first authorized in 2000. It encourages
investment in high-poverty areas or in
low-income areas. Again, in Missouri,
42,000 new jobs have been created as a
result of the New Markets Tax Credit
Program. The other day, I went to the
first new supermarket since 1968 in
North St. Louis. This new supermarket
opened because it was able to use the
New Markets Tax Credit Program. It is
a program we clearly need to extend.
Once again, I and Senator CARDIN, from
Maryland, introduced that legislation,
and we hope that can happen.
On the health front, there is nothing
better for small business than the idea
of association health plans. It has been
challenged in court, but I will tell you
what. In Missouri, we have had experi-
ence with this for a long time. It does
work. It just, frankly, makes sense. If
you are a small restaurant owner, you
are not going to have as good a pro-
gram for your employees as if you
could get that program through the
Missouri Restaurant Association,
through the National Restaurant Asso-
ciation, or through some other associa-
tion that would allow you to be the
kind of group from which 180 million
Americans already get their insurance.
We need to continue to work on this as
we honor small business with things
like we have done in the last couple of
days.
The Ex-Im Bank is often not thought
of as a thing that small business uses,
but there are more small business Ex-
Im Bank loans that are processed than
there are of big business loans. Even
when there are big business loans,
those big businesses almost always
have small business providers for what
they do. The Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission can’t fully work
in a way that people can count on if it
doesn’t have the people there to make
it work. We did that today.
So my colleagues and I are here
today to talk about small business. It
is the engine that drives America. This
is the week in which we honor it, but,
frankly, our economy is dependent on
it every single week, and I am glad to
be here to talk about it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, our Na-
tion’s economy is booming. Last Fri-
day’s jobs report far exceeded anyone’s
expectations. It showed that we added
263,000 jobs last month and that unem-
ployment was sitting at the lowest
since 1969. At the backbone of it all are
our small businesses.
Just look at my home State of Iowa,
where 99 percent of our businesses are
small businesses. With our State’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.039 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2726 May 8, 2019
economy continuing to grow and our
unemployment amongst the lowest in
the Nation, it is clear that our small
businesses’ success is Iowa’s success.
These job creators in our State are
leading the way by finding innovative
solutions and creating new opportuni-
ties for our workforce. Too often, small
businesses struggle to comply with
some of the most costly and burden-
some regulations that come out of
Washington, DC.
As a way to rein in these regulations
and to foster a more thoughtful rule-
making process, this week, I reintro-
duced my PROVE IT Act. This bipar-
tisan legislation gives the Small Busi-
ness Administration’s Office of Advo-
cacy an opportunity to ask Agencies to
prove their regulatory analyses when
proposing a rule that may be economi-
cally harmful to small businesses. It
gives Iowa’s small businesses a voice in
the rulemaking process.
One increasingly important compo-
nent of our country’s labor market is
women-owned small businesses. Iowa
ranks in the top 10 for growth in em-
ployment and revenues in women-
owned businesses. However, these busi-
nesses still face many challenges. That
is why I recently introduced the Ex-
panding Contracting Opportunities for
Small Businesses Act, which addresses
the discrepancy in sole-source manu-
facturing contracts that puts women-
owned small businesses at a disadvan-
tage. This bipartisan bill is a sensible
and simple fix to help ensure all of
Iowa’s small business owners get a fair
shot at competing and succeeding.
Commonsense deregulation, coupled
with tax reform, has helped to fuel eco-
nomic growth and has contributed to
high levels of consumer and business
confidence. Yet, folks, there is still a
lot of work to be done. While many of
Iowa’s small businesses would abso-
lutely love to provide their employees
with the option of having paid parental
leave, it is just far too costly. That is
one reason I am working with Senator
MIKE LEE on a proposal that would
allow new moms and dads who work at
one of these small businesses the op-
portunity to receive paid parental
leave.
As a member of the Senate Small
Business and Entrepreneurship Com-
mittee, I am excited to celebrate Na-
tional Small Business Week and to con-
tinue fighting for pro-growth policies
and a regulatory system that encour-
ages innovation and job growth—one in
which Iowa’s small businesses are
heard loud and clear. As I have said be-
fore, when Iowa’s small businesses are
successful, Iowa also succeeds.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I am
pleased to join many of my colleagues
today to celebrate National Small
Business Week.
Nearly every day, we do business
with these local retailers or use prod-
ucts they had a hand in creating some-
where along the supply chain. Still, it
can be easy to focus on the larger com-
panies that dominate America’s eco-
nomic landscape, but this week is a
time to shift our attention to the en-
trepreneurs and innovators who reach
for their pieces of the American dream
and work tirelessly to achieve them.
This is no small feat, but it happens
over and over again each day as it has
throughout our Nation’s history.
This week, we have the opportunity
to recognize and commend those who
take this leap of faith while generating
positive economic activity and benefits
that help to strengthen and sustain the
system that has created more wealth
for more people than any other in
human history. This system is cap-
italism. It underpins our society and is
marked by the freedom and ability to
make our own economic decisions.
Those decisions have often led Ameri-
cans to start businesses and become
their own bosses. As a result, Amer-
ica’s small businesses are now, without
question, the backbone of our country.
As the Small Business Administra-
tion has reported, more than half of
Americans either own or work for a
small business, and they create about
two out of every three new jobs in the
United States each year. It is clear
that small businesses drive the U.S.
economy.
I was recently in North Central Ar-
kansas, where I met with several small
business owners and their employees.
This time last year, I toured small
businesses in South and Southwest Ar-
kansas to highlight and learn more
about the impact they have on our
State. Representatives from the Small
Business Administration were on hand
for some of these visits to underscore
the Agency’s willingness and desire to
help promote and assist small busi-
nesses, owners, and entrepreneurs with
establishing or expanding their compa-
nies.
At each stop, the conversations pro-
vided me with invaluable insight as to
the challenges and opportunities busi-
nesses face. Inevitably, the discussions
also turned to how the economic cli-
mate has changed for the better in re-
cent years. Whether they have been
changes in the Tax Code that have
helped to make small businesses even
more competitive, including the quali-
fied business deduction, altering the es-
tate tax, or increasing bonus deprecia-
tion, as well as having provided regu-
latory relief and certainty, we have
witnessed how these pro-growth poli-
cies have not only helped to drastically
uplift and improve America’s economy
but how they have also given business
owners and entrepreneurs the con-
fidence they have been lacking for so
many years about whether to invest or
expand their opportunities.
According to the Small Business Ad-
ministration, Arkansas is home to over
247,000 small businesses, which is over
99.3 percent of all businesses in the
State. These enterprises employ over
479,000 Arkansans, which makes it easy
to see how much of an impact they
have on our State’s economic climate.
In addition to powering the economy,
small businesses also contribute to the
communities they operate in. They em-
body the American values and ideals
that have helped to build our country—
hard work, a willingness to take risks,
and a vision for opportunity. That is
why we recognized the importance of
entrepreneurs by passing a resolution
designating May 5 through 11 as Na-
tional Small Business Week.
I encourage people across my home
State and throughout the country to
support small businesses in their com-
munities, especially this week. I also
encourage my colleagues to continue
listening to the concerns and to the ad-
vice of our entrepreneurs and of those
they employ.
We can build on our positive eco-
nomic growth by pursuing more poli-
cies that will help our small businesses
succeed. The show of support certainly
means a lot to the folks who own these
companies and their employees who
count on them to earn their liveli-
hoods. It also serves as a way to fur-
ther cultivate and reward the entrepre-
neurial spirit that is at the very heart
of America.
I applaud the men and women in Ar-
kansas and across the United States
who work incredibly hard as they run
their own businesses and chase the
American dream. This week, we cele-
brate them and our Nation’s intrepid,
enterprising legacy that helps make us
who we are.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
am pleased to join my colleagues and
celebrate National Small Business
Week. I love this poster that they have
prepared today because Tennessee is
right at the heart of this.
For over five decades, National Small
Business Week has been an opportunity
to recognize the tremendous contribu-
tion of small businesses and entre-
preneurs to the American economy.
We know and we hear it said so often
that there is nothing small about small
business because of the economic im-
pact it has. I tell you, the statistics
really do bear that out.
According to the most recent report
from the Small Business Administra-
tion’s Office of Advocacy for my home
State of Tennessee, there are over
603,000 small businesses located in our
State. Now, 99.4 percent of all the busi-
nesses in our State are small busi-
nesses. That speaks to the health and
vitality of our economy.
Collectively, these small businesses
employ over 1.1 million people, and
that accounts for 42.3 percent of the en-
tire workforce in the State. So small
business has an enormous footprint in
the State of Tennessee.
Now, we have heard a lot about the
booming economy in recent weeks, and
as we celebrate Mother’s Day this
week—and I do hope it is a happy
Mother’s Day for everyone. We know
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.042 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2727
May 8, 2019
this economy that is booming, that is
growing, with record-low unemploy-
ment numbers, with economic vitality,
wage growth that we have not seen—we
know this is an economy that makes
the lives of millions of working women
and those families’ lives better, and we
celebrate what this economy is doing
for the Nation as a whole.
Specific to Tennessee, as we cele-
brate Mother’s Day, we celebrate these
women-owned businesses. What we do
know from the research that is out is
that Tennessee is the fifth best State
in the country for female-owned small
businesses and that they are seeing dy-
namic growth in both revenue and em-
ployment.
Now, the economic gains that have
come about because of the tax cuts and
the regulatory reforms that have been
enacted by President Trump, voted on,
pushed through by congressional Re-
publicans, have changed the economic
landscape of millions of Americans.
Since tax reform was signed into law,
3.2 million new jobs were created, 90
percent of the taxpayers have received
a bigger paycheck, and jobless claims
are at the lowest they have been in 50
years.
Here is the connective tissue between
these encouraging stats and what I
hear back in Tennessee. Because the
economy is strong, now is a great time
to grow or to expand or to start a new
business. Entrepreneurs feel confident
so they are betting on themselves and
making decisions that they need to
make in order to succeed: They are hir-
ing that new employee, adding a new
store or a new location, and daring to
turn their dreams into a reality.
Small businesses are the key driver
of our turbocharged economy, and we
will continue to do all we can to help
them thrive.
I will tell you also, as a member of
the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, that I want to thank those en-
trepreneurs who are veterans, who are
stepping up at record rates in our State
and are starting their small businesses.
Some of these deal with services that
are needed and products that are need-
ed by our military post or used by our
National Guard. These veterans make
great small business owners, and they
also make great employees. The skills
they learn defending our Nation while
they are in uniform are uniquely well
suited to succeed in business: the dis-
cipline, the focus, the resilience, the
ability to plan, to adapt, to work col-
laboratively with others in order to get
a job done.
Indeed, for themselves and their fam-
ilies, they are getting the job done.
These are the hallmarks of our sol-
diers, sailors, airmen, marines, but
they are also the qualities of successful
entrepreneurs. We are thrilled they
choose to call Tennessee home.
The importance of the American
small business is gauged not only by
facts and figures. The true value of our
small businesses comes not just from
their contribution to the American
economy but also their contribution to
another American Dream fulfilled.
Entrepreneurship is the embodiment
of the American dream. It is about men
and women pursuing their passions.
They work hard, save their money,
make a plan, and put that plan into ac-
tion. Oftentimes, they struggle, some-
times they will end up failing, but they
pick themselves up, preserve their
right to move forward, push forward,
and they never stop trying. Our econ-
omy and our Nation are stronger and
better for their efforts.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, National Small Business
Week is about so much more than sim-
ply saying thank you to our small busi-
ness owners and entrepreneurs. It is
about recognizing everything they do
for our communities. They aren’t sim-
ply the economic backbone but a com-
mon thread that binds us together.
We all remember the stores we vis-
ited when we were young or with our
families to pick out a new pair of
shoes. They host bake sales, donate to
local churches and charities, as well as
support local youth teams. They invest
in us, and we invest in them.
South Carolina is home to more than
400,000 small businesses employing
nearly 800,000 people.
Having been a small business owner
myself, I have to tell you that one of
the more exciting times you could ever
have in life is starting a small busi-
ness. I know Senator BRAUN can talk
about what ABC Sports used to call the
thrill of victory as well as the agony of
defeat. Sometimes, for me, the thrill of
victory was when I was signing the
front side of a paycheck for my em-
ployees, and the agony of defeat was
when I was not signing the back side of
that paycheck for myself.
Being a small business owner cer-
tainly teaches you incredible lessons
about life, about people, and certainly
about the community you want to
serve. Owning your own small business
is a rewarding and sometimes chal-
lenging experience.
As part of National Small Business
Week, it is also my honor to recognize
VetFriends of Mount Pleasant, SC, as
the Senate’s Small Business of the
Day.
Dale Sutcliffe, a U.S. Marine veteran
of Desert Storm, founded VetFriends
nearly 20 years ago with the simple
mission of reuniting veterans. Fol-
lowing his service, Dale recognized the
benefit that reconnecting veterans
could have and quickly set up a plat-
form where veterans can reunite with
their fellow servicemembers during the
time in which they served our great
Nation.
The VetFriends platform has over 2.5
million veteran members and has
brought together thousands of vet-
erans. In the process, the platform has
helped veterans share their stories,
share their photos, as well as stay in-
formed about upcoming events and re-
unions.
Currently, VetFriends employs over
25 South Carolinians and almost all
have a close relationship with a vet-
eran. The team at VetFriends has a
longstanding tradition of supporting
the veterans community and are regu-
larly seen volunteering at the Ralph
Johnson VA Medical Center. Addition-
ally, the business has taken an active
role working with the Wounded War-
rior Project and Patriots Point in
Charleston.
It is clear that VetFriends’ values
and goals not only enhance their busi-
ness plan but also improve the commu-
nity they belong to. VetFriends is an
amazing example of what our small
businesses are capable of, and I thank
Dale Sutcliffe and our small business
owners throughout South Carolina for
pouring their heart and their soul as
well as their dreams back into the
community.
Let me finish by saying happy Moth-
er’s Day to all the mothers and espe-
cially my mama.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Indiana.
Mr. BRAUN. Madam President, I was
asked to bat cleanup on National Small
Business Week for our conference. I
have been a Main Street entrepreneur
my entire life.
My wife and I moved back to our
hometown in 1978. She will celebrate
her 41st anniversary this September
with her only job—a business in our
downtown selling home accessories and
gifts.
I am very proud of you, Maureen.
Three years later, I had my oppor-
tunity to stake out my attempt at
being an entrepreneur. As Senator
SCOTT mentioned, it is fraught with
pitfalls. There is no guarantee, when
you stick your neck out and want to do
some enterprise—no guarantee it is
going to turn out. What a thrill it is,
though, when it does, and it is what
drives our great country.
Enterprise in this country, from its
foundation, was built upon small busi-
nesses. We have over 500,000 of them in
Indiana. Those businesses created over
38,000 new jobs in the last year, but
things aren’t as good as they could be
because as much as the tax reform did
for securing the future of small busi-
ness, it is not permanent. We need to
make sure that is done sometime be-
fore 2025.
Manufacturing—the biggest business
in Indiana since the Trump economy
has created the hottest context for
business, small, medium or large. Six
times more jobs in President Trump’s 2
years have been created in manufac-
turing than the last 2 years of the prior
administration.
Sometimes a little business can get
lucky and become a medium-size busi-
ness and a large business. Mine fol-
lowed that pathway. I will give you a
little detail on that in a moment.
McDonald’s started with one loca-
tion. This summer they will add, in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.043 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2728 May 8, 2019
State of Indiana, 11,000 summer jobs.
International companies even come to
the State of Indiana because our door
is open and what a great place to have
a small, medium, or large business.
Saab will add a $25 million invest-
ment in West Lafayette that will cre-
ate 200 great-paying jobs.
Now back to my story. We raised a
family, and I had the chance to start
my business. In 17 years, it never got
beyond 15 employees. That is the num-
ber of employees I started with in 1981
and that is what I had in 1998.
Perseverance, patience, reinvesting,
keeping a low overhead so you can get
through the scrapes that inevitably
will come in an economy, and someday
your day of opportunity will arise.
In the darkest hours of the great re-
cession, when our industry shrunk by
over 50 percent literally overnight,
every asset I owned was a piece of com-
mercial real estate—a warehouse. Ev-
erything I sold was an unnecessary
want, not a need—auto and truck ac-
cessories. I wondered, what did the fu-
ture hold?
Well, the future held the greatest op-
portunity I could have ever imagined
because I lived my life in a way that
set the stage for opportunity. I make
that point because we are not doing it
in this institution.
We have set ourselves up to ruin a lot
of the good things that are occurring
from decades and decades ago to the
present if we don’t get our house in
order. The institution of the Federal
Government should be the pride of our
country. Running $850 billion deficits
and $22 trillion in debt, that doesn’t
bode well for any of us. But the good
news is, if we keep this economy going,
I think it can go decades into the fu-
ture, where we keep creating jobs and
raising wages like have never been
done before. But I mentioned earlier
that some of us turn them into me-
dium-size businesses and larger busi-
nesses, and so often, what got you
there, you forget about.
I tell folks all the time: It doesn’t
matter what size business you have, if
you are successful, share those benefits
with your employees. Raise benefits
through your 401(k) plan. Lower
healthcare costs if you can, and cer-
tainly raise wages.
Make sure people look to the real
world for what means the most and not
to government. If you look to govern-
ment, especially the Federal Govern-
ment, you are going to be disappointed.
The action in our country is on Main
Streets in towns and cities across the
country in our States.
My parting comments: The biggest
companies in this country sometimes,
in my opinion, behave most poorly. I
am going to talk about two—Big Ag
and Big Healthcare.
I took on the healthcare issue 10
years ago in my own company. Nobody
should go broke because they get sick
or have a bad accident. All small busi-
nesses want to offer good healthcare to
their employees but can’t. Why? Be-
cause the industry has gotten con-
centrated with huge corporations, from
pharma to hospitals across the board
and health insurance companies, which
I had to tangle with.
I ask you to get with it, be trans-
parent, and be competitive so you don’t
have a business partner that may only
be the Federal Government down the
road.
Big Agriculture—I want to end with
this because in Joni’s State, a high per-
centage of small businesses are farm-
ers. Farmers take on the most difficult
task of any business in our country—
the weather, a high amount of assets
for the income they generate. They
have regulations like waters of the
United States—great intentions but
overbearing. There are farmers who
now worry about ditch maintenance
because ditches that don’t have water
in them most of the year are now con-
sidered waters of the United States. We
have to get a better balance to where
we have good regulations and not over-
bearing regulations.
I am asking folks in this Chamber, in
this Congress, to look to get this house
in order, and I am asking Big Indus-
try—big companies in the agricultural
arena and in the healthcare arena—to
get their act in order so the doctors
who participate within healthcare and
the farmers who participate within ag-
riculture can make an honest living.
They are all small businesses, and
small businesses drive this country.
Thank you.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Illinois.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President,
I might be the luckiest person in the
world because I get to wake up on Sun-
day and spend Mother’s Day, well,
being a mom. I will probably spend the
morning helping my 1-year-old take a
few wobbly steps and then the after-
noon watching my 4-year-old draw or
chasing her around the house, cele-
brating the holiday surrounded by the
people I cherish the most.
But that isn’t the case for far too
many other moms and kids around the
country. That isn’t the case for women
like Denise Reed, Sybrina Fulton, or
Valerie Castile, who lost their children
to gun violence. That isn’t the case for
the hundreds of children born in the
past year alone whose mothers died
from preventable, pregnancy-related
deaths. That certainly isn’t the case
for the families whom the Trump ad-
ministration separated at our southern
border and who still have not yet been
reunited, the kids who were thrown in
cages because their parents had the
nerve to strive for a better life.
This Mother’s Day, I am thinking of
those whose hearts are hurting, those
moms who would give anything for an-
other lazy Sunday with their sons or
those daughters who would do anything
to hear their mother’s laugh one more
time.
The truth is, the women—moms or
otherwise—in this country deserve bet-
ter than the status quo. We deserve
more than the Trump administration,
which in just 2-plus years has already
changed title IX sexual assault rules to
favor the accused over the survivor,
tried to defund health clinics that pro-
vide prenatal care and mammograms,
pushed forward healthcare proposals
that would have gutted maternity cov-
erage, and handed employers the power
to decide whether women should have
access to birth control.
All this—well, it is shocking but un-
fortunately not surprising because we
knew who Donald Trump was when we
elected him. He is the man who has
long made clear that he does not care
about women or our autonomy. He is
the man who once argued that women
should be punished for taking up the
right to choose; who has taken pride in
trying to put the government between
us and our doctors; who would rather
throw those doctors in jail than even
pretend to care about the women who
make up 51 percent of this Nation; who
just 10 days ago stood on a stage in
Wisconsin and lied, lied, lied,
prioritizing a roar from the crowd over
the safety of patients and providers at
health clinics nationwide; and who just
last week issued two rules that would
make it easier for doctors to either dis-
criminate against women or deny them
care altogether.
So don’t tell me that Trump is ‘‘pro-
life’’ when he is pushing for rules that
endanger women’s lives and when he
spent years trying to strip healthcare
away from Americans. Don’t claim
that he is just trying to protect fami-
lies when he is the one to blame for the
inhumane policy that is ripping tod-
dlers and babies away from mothers’
arms. Don’t you dare argue that he is
leading the ‘‘party of life’’ when he will
not lift a finger to stop first graders
from getting massacred in classrooms
by the dozen. No, Donald Trump’s anti-
choice stance isn’t about looking out
for families; it is about getting a slap
on the back from his base and exerting
even more control over women’s bod-
ies. It is sexist, regressive, and flatout
dangerous.
But even while this administration’s
agenda is a travesty, it is not an anom-
aly; rather, it is just the latest step in
the far-right’s long march to strip
away women’s rights. I am tired of it,
sick of their trying to shame women
when they are the ones who should be
ashamed.
So enough with the hypocrisy, with
the misogyny, with some men in hal-
lowed halls in DC arguing that they
know better than moms in Illinois or
Arizona or Missouri. We can and we
must do better. That means fighting
for everything from equal pay to better
parental leave. It means proving that
we care about women every day of the
year, not just on one Sunday in May.
That is the least that our mothers, our
daughters, and our sisters deserve.
Thank you.
With that, I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Hawaii.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.044 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2729
May 8, 2019
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, it
gives me no pleasure to say this, but
this administration is actively doing
terrible things for women and their
families. They have rolled back protec-
tions for workers. They have made it
easier for companies to pollute the air
and the water. They have cut invest-
ments in public education. They have
literally taken children away from
their parents and made zero effort to
reunite them. They are working as
hard as possible to prevent women
from having access to the healthcare
they need. These are not rhetorical
statements. They are policies that hurt
people. They are hurting moms.
The Centers for Disease Control came
out with a report just this week show-
ing that hundreds of women die every
year from pregnancy-related complica-
tions and that many of these deaths
are preventable. The report finds that
one of the key ways to prevent these
deaths is access to proper medical care.
Yet this administration has made tak-
ing away people’s access to healthcare
a top priority. They have put legisla-
tion in to end the Affordable Care Act.
They filed lawsuits to take away pro-
tections for people with preexisting
conditions. They have issued regula-
tions that allow healthcare providers
to refuse to provide care to someone
based on their personal beliefs and
keep healthcare providers from giving
their patients full and accurate infor-
mation. As we all know, they have
gone after Planned Parenthood—one of
the leading sources of healthcare for
women—with everything they have.
I remember when I first became a
Member of this body, I visited a clinic
in Honolulu. I remember meeting with
the staff, who told me that clinic was
the only source of healthcare for most
of their patients. This was the one
place women could go for family plan-
ning services, counseling, and breast
cancer screenings.
Planned Parenthood’s entire reason
for being is to help families. In a single
year, they cared for 2.4 million people
and provided almost 10 million indi-
vidual healthcare services, including
300,000 breast cancer screenings and
over 200,000 well-woman exams—all in a
single year. Yet a highlight of this ad-
ministration’s policy on women is to
attack women’s health and specifically
Planned Parenthood.
But we know it is not just
healthcare. As I said, it is workplace
safety and fairness. It is investment in
public education. It is clean air and
clean water. These are things that all
of us care about but moms in par-
ticular.
Whatever your political persuasion,
everyone has a mom. Lots of people are
moms or are married to a mom. This
administration is inarguably bad for
moms and bad for motherhood. Moms
in this country deserve better.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Arkansas.
IRAN
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, 5
years ago, I, along with 46 of my fellow
Senators, released a letter to Iran’s
Ayatollah letting him know that any
nuclear deal he reached with President
Obama wouldn’t be worth the paper it
was printed on unless it was ratified as
a treaty by two-thirds of the U.S. Sen-
ate. We wrote: ‘‘The next president
could revoke such an executive agree-
ment with the stroke of a pen and fu-
ture Congresses could modify the terms
of the agreement at any time.’’
A lot of people were upset by this let-
ter, but I don’t really know why. All it
did was state a straightforward lesson
on American civics—something any
ninth grader who has read our Con-
stitution should know. Yet the Aya-
tollah agreed to a deal with President
Obama that was not, in fact, approved
by two-thirds of the Senate. In fact, it
was almost rejected by three-fifths of
the Senate. Just as we cautioned, not 3
years later, a new President did, in
fact, revoke that deal with the stroke
of a pen.
Today is the 1-year anniversary of
America’s withdrawal from the Iran
nuclear deal, and a lot has happened
since then.
Just this morning, Iran threatened to
renew its rush to the bomb, stockpiling
more uranium and producing more
heavy water—even threatening to en-
rich nuclear fuels to dangerous levels
in the months ahead if the civilized
world does not cave to its demands.
We know better than to cave in to
the ayatollahs. The United States will
remain steadfast in our maximum pres-
sure campaign against Iran until that
regime abandons its nuclear and mis-
sile program and its support for ter-
rorism. I welcome the news that the
President is announcing new sanctions
on Iran’s mining industry as well.
As for our European allies and part-
ners and members of the business com-
munity abroad, I hope Iran’s threats
will serve as a needed wake-up call.
Any attempt to invest in Iran’s market
under any circumstances other than
Iran’s complete and verifiable ces-
sation of its full range of malign ac-
tivities will be fraught with huge legal
and financial risks—huge risks. Busi-
nesses shouldn’t put themselves in that
compromising position, and European
partners shouldn’t give in to Iran’s
high-stakes nuclear blackmail.
Of course, today’s announcement is
just the latest dangerous provocation
by the Iranian regime. In the past year,
Iran and its well-armed proxies have
continued their killing spree across the
Middle East—the same spree they were
on before and during the Iran nuclear
deal. This time, the United States has
stood up to Iran rather than rewarding
its evil deeds.
We designated the Iranian Revolu-
tionary Guard Corps for what it is—a
foreign terrorist organization—for
plotting attacks around the world and
arming groups like Hezbollah, Hamas,
and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the very
same groups that slaughtered innocent
civilians in Israel just last weekend
with no regard for the lives they pur-
portedly represent in Gaza.
We reimposed sanctions on Iran that
were waived by President Obama. We
have also recognized Israeli sov-
ereignty over the Golan Heights, af-
firming a close ally’s right to defend
itself against Iranian-backed aggres-
sion. These are good things. Iran is a
weaker adversary today than it was a
year ago when it was flush with bribe
money from its nuclear deal with the
Obama administration.
Not everyone sees it that way. At
least six Democratic Presidential can-
didates have talked about reentering
this outdated obsolete nuclear deal
with Iran. They would give the aya-
tollahs and his armies sanctions relief
yet again at a time when Iran’s econ-
omy is on the mat, not just in reces-
sion but in borderline depression. If we
were to give them sanctions relief, we
know what they would do with that
money. We have seen this movie be-
fore. They would use it to build bal-
listic missiles, to kill and maim inno-
cent civilians, and to fuel chaos in
Iraq, Syria, Yemen, and further abroad.
A return to the Iran deal would be a
disastrous decision, but more impor-
tantly, such a decision would be every
bit as reversible as the first. When are
these people going to learn? Everybody
ought to keep in mind this simple fact,
whether you are a politician making
promises or on the campaign trail or a
business leader considering major in-
vestments in Iran.
To make it abundantly clear, on the
1-year anniversary of our withdrawal
from that horrific, terrible nuclear
deal, I have a gift for them all. It is the
first anniversary. So it is a paper gift.
I have introduced a resolution with my
colleagues that reaffirms the policy of
the United States to never, never allow
Iran to acquire nuclear weapons. Fur-
thermore, the resolution reaffirms that
sanctions can only come off of Iran
once it meets the basic conditions ap-
proved by Congress under existing law.
Among other things, that law requires
that Iran must stop supporting ter-
rorism and dismantle its ballistic mis-
sile program before sanctions can be
waived. They can’t simply be waived by
a President using his so-called pen and
phone.
I hope this resolution clears up any
confusion about where the United
States stands with respect to Iran and
for anyone considering investing in the
Iranian market. America will continue
to apply maximum pressure against
the ayatollahs’ regime so long as they
continue their campaign of terror and
violence against the United States and
our allies throughout the Middle East,
and we will continue to assist those al-
lies as they fight against Iranian-
backed aggression.
To the Ayatollah and all of the rulers
of Iran: Happy anniversary.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Montana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.046 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2730 May 8, 2019
NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS WEEK
Mr. DAINES. Madam President, it is
National Small Business Week, and in
Montana, small businesses are a crit-
ical part of our life. In fact, I grew up
watching my parents build a small
business. They are made up of hard-
working families who lift up their com-
panies and neighborhoods, and it is
what keeps our economy growing and
keeps our economy strong.
In fact, when I am back home in
Montana and back in my hometown of
Bozeman, you might find me in the
morning grabbing a cup of coffee from
Cold Smoke with my sweet wife Cindy,
or I might be heading over to Butte. I
might be picking up a new mount from
my taxidermist, Marc, who does a
great job there in Butte. Or maybe it is
time for dinner and grabbing a bite to
eat at the Mint in Belgrade. Of course,
if you are over in Billings, you have to
stop and get a cinnamon roll at
Stella’s. If you are heading through
Helena, get a great lunch there at
Steve’s Cafe. Or if you are up in the
northwest part of the State, you might
grab a beer at the Cabinet Mountain
Brewery. Or there is nothing like
breakfast at Syke’s in Kalispell.
In fact, one of the old-time favorites
in Missoula is the Thunderbird Motel.
They have a great owner there, Thel-
ma, who has been a friend for years. I
still remember how excited the men
and women who were stationed in Af-
ghanistan and from our very own 495th
from Kalispell were when we brought
over—hand-carried over to Afghani-
stan—back in December, some Hi-
Country beef jerky from Lincoln, MT,
because for them, that Hi-Country beef
jerky tasted like being back home.
These mom and pop shops of Mon-
tana tell the story of the ideals that
make our Nation great. In fact, in
Montana, 90 percent of our businesses
are small businesses—90 percent. Mon-
tana’s small business owners are hard-
working Montanans. They have taken
a leap of faith to pursue the dream of
owning their own business.
They get up early, they roll their
sleeves up, and they don’t stop working
until they get the job done. They are
folks who put everything they have
into starting a business. They are
working all day, oftentimes into the
night, to keep that business growing.
Their voices that make our economy
run in Montana are seldom heard on
the national stage.
Those businesses that I mentioned
earlier that I like to frequent are not
household names across our country.
They are well-known names back in
their respective communities, but they
are not on the national stage, and it is
my honor to be their voice, to fight for
policies that make their lives back in
Montana easier.
Thankfully, under Republican leader-
ship over the last 3 years, our country
has experienced record economic
growth. That is not by accident.
Since we passed tax reform, over 31⁄2
million new jobs have been added to
this economy, and we are seeing more
money in the pockets of Montanans.
Wages are up. Productivity is up. The
unemployment rate sits at a 50. That is
a five-decades-old low of 3.6 percent.
Many said that can never be done.
Guess what. Under President Trump’s
leadership, working with this Repub-
lican Congress, they have gotten it
done.
I want to make sure this economic
hot streak continues because our rural
communities back in Montana rely on
these small businesses. That is why
just last month I introduced the Main
Street Tax Certainty Act, which would
give these small businesses permanent
tax relief. When government stands out
of the way, when burdensome regula-
tions are lifted, and when Congress fi-
nally understands that it is not govern-
ment that creates growth but it is the
individuals—the hard-working men and
women in this country—then, there is
no telling how far we can go as a na-
tion. We have to keep this economy
booming, and we must keep Montana’s
small businesses thriving.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from West Virginia.
AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
rise today to call for immediate action
on the American Miners Act. We have
an obligation to the miners across
America who have served our Nation
by providing us with energy through
our greatest advancements. They de-
serve to know that their pensions,
which they rightfully worked for, will
be funded fully, and they deserve to
have accessible healthcare, which was
guaranteed to them as well.
As the Senate fails to act, we con-
tinue to put our retired miners’
healthcare and pension benefits in
jeopardy yet again. I have been work-
ing with everyone from every angle in
order to prevent our miners from los-
ing their healthcare and benefits. But,
once again, they are facing a deadline
that puts their whole livelihood at
risk.
This has been a long fight, and it is
far from over. Everyone who has joined
me in this journey understands that
fighting for working people is what we
were sent here to do. These retired
miners are walking the halls and fight-
ing for what is rightfully theirs. I am
doing this for them. I promised them
that this body will not abandon them,
and I refuse to let them down.
To give you some background, the
1974 pension plan will be insolvent by
2022 if we do not act. We needed to act
a year ago or so, and we haven’t done
it. It is a shame. Miners who receive
their healthcare through companies
that went bankrupt in 2018 are at risk
of losing coverage in the coming
months if we fail to act soon.
How did we get here? Unlike many
other public and private pension plans,
in 1974, the miners’ pension plan was
well managed and 94 percent funded
prior to the crash of 2008. However, the
financial crisis hit at a time when this
plan had its highest payment obliga-
tions. If the plan becomes insolvent,
these beneficiaries will face benefit
cuts, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation will assume billions of dol-
lars in liabilities.
To address these issues, the Amer-
ican Miners Act would shore up the
1974 pension plan, which is headed for
insolvency due to coal company bank-
ruptcies and the 2008 financial crisis. It
would ensure that the miners who are
at risk due to 2018 coal company bank-
ruptcies will not lose their healthcare
and extend the Black Lung Disability
Trust Fund tax at $1.10 per ton of un-
derground-mined coal and 55 cents per
ton of surface-mined coal for 10 years.
West Virginia has more retired union
coal miners than any other State. More
than 27,000 retirees live in West Vir-
ginia alone.
I am going to read a letter to give
you perspective on what we are dealing
with. Richard from Morgantown, WV,
said:
I am writing this letter with respect and
concern to preserve our pension. My name is
Richard. I live in Morgantown, West Vir-
ginia. My career as an underground coal
miner lasted 35 years. I am soon to be 68
years old. Working underground all those
years, the physical labor tends to take a toll
on a person’s body. I receive a monthly pen-
sion of $1,466 a month from the UMWA Pen-
sion Fund. This monthly pension is used to
pay utility bills, purchase groceries, and ev-
eryday necessities. I am also helping to sup-
port my five year old grandson and his moth-
er, who doesn’t earn enough for them to live
on their own. You see, my daughter became
addicted to prescription opioids after having
serious medical problems. She has been clean
for five years and is trying to rebuild her
life, but we are supporting her and her son.
My pension is a major source of income for
my family and it would be devastating if I
were to lose any of it. I can’t imagine how
we would survive. Our county and sur-
rounding counties are heavily dependent on
the coal miners’ pension. Should we lose our
pension, the economy in this area would
plummet. I am also writing as a voice for
those who are unable to write to you. I am
asking your committee to carefully consider
the bill to preserve our pensions.
I have another one from Gary from
Southern West Virginia who wrote:
I have worked in the [United Mine Work-
ers] since 1973 at Cannelton Coal. I worked
about 131⁄2 years, then had a lay-off in the
early 80’s, had to find work in another field,
and got a job driving a school bus for 25
years. I’m retired now, but I still sub-drive
for the county, was in [a] . . . bus driver as-
sociation, and also drive a bus for Ace Ad-
venture Resort. I am 74 now and still very
active in the work force. I thank God for my
health. I am still married to a wonderful
woman, had 4 kids, 3 of them have passed
away, one from cancer, one [from] allergy,
my daughter died from a drug overdose. I am
still paying on my daughter’s funeral ex-
penses. This retirement check that I get
every month is a big help getting this bill
paid, also had to pay on one of my son’s fu-
neral expenses. Since 2011 it has been very
hard trying to keep your head above water.
I only get $261 a month but I am so thankful
for what I get. It really helps out a lot.
Please find a way so we can keep our retire-
ment check. We will keep on praying for all
you guys who are fighting for us.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.048 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2731
May 8, 2019
I just want to finish by saying that
these are people who have gone to work
every day. They didn’t take the money
home because they were letting that go
into their retirement pension, and they
thought that was being taken care of
and managed properly. It wasn’t their
fault. They have already paid, and now
because of bankruptcies and financial
collapses, they can’t get the money. It
is wrong. It is not who we are as a
country.
Through the bankruptcy laws that
we have in America today, you can be
in line if you are a financial institu-
tion—somebody that basically is in
line before the person we are basically
here to serve. The miners who get
these pensions average $460 a month.
That is the average pension they re-
ceive. That is not much. Most of these
are widows, too, because the husbands
have passed away.
So I am asking—this has been a bi-
partisan bill. I appreciate all of my col-
leagues on the Republican side, all of
my Democratic colleagues, and every-
body for working and really trying to
take care of the people whom we made
a promise to. This was a pension that
was guaranteed by Harry S. Truman
with John L. Lewis at the time. It is in
stone. It is there for us, and it is basi-
cally one we cannot walk away from.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Wisconsin.
HEALTHCARE
Ms. BALDWIN. I rise today to talk
about an issue that is top of mind for
women in Wisconsin and across this
country, and that is healthcare.
Let’s take a look at what we have
seen from this President and congres-
sional Republicans over the past 21⁄2
years. There have been repeated at-
tempts to repeal healthcare legisla-
tively, which would result in the loss of
healthcare for millions of Americans.
The administration itself has acted in
a way that undermines the Affordable
Care Act, which frankly sabotages the
guaranteed healthcare protections that
millions of women and their families
rely on. An ongoing lawsuit is making
its way through the courts that would,
if the administration had its way, re-
sult in overturning or striking down
the Affordable Care Act.
Last Saturday was May 4. It was ac-
tually the 2-year anniversary of House
Republicans passing legislation that
would repeal the Affordable Care Act. I
remember that day, and, in particular,
I remember watching the ensuing cele-
bration, which was conducted at the
Rose Garden at a press conference,
among President Trump and Speaker
Ryan and others. There was literally
backslapping and high-fiving going on
because they had taken the first step
toward taking people’s healthcare
away. It was hard to believe.
Just a few months later, we saw
three courageous Republican col-
leagues in this Chamber—Senators
McCain, MURKOWSKI, and COLLINS—join
every Democrat in this Chamber in
voting against repealing the Affordable
Care Act. They listened to their con-
stituents. They listened to the families
in their States.
I, too, voted to defeat that legisla-
tion that would have repealed the Af-
fordable Care Act, and I have done like-
wise on a number of other particularly
partisan efforts by President Trump or
congressional Republicans that would
have taken away some of the protec-
tions that the people of the United
States and Wisconsin enjoy. I did so. I
voted no on those efforts because the
people of my State didn’t send me here
to take their healthcare away. They
actually sent me here to work across
party lines and make things better.
Throughout that summer—that was
the summer of 2017—individuals across
this country stood up, and they called
their elected representatives with one
simple message: Protect our care.
When congressional Republicans failed
to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the
Trump administration kind of doubled
down and went to work, really under-
mining and sabotaging our healthcare
system, rewriting some of the rules on
guaranteed healthcare protections that
millions of people rely on.
For example, the administration
ended something that we called the
cost-sharing reduction payments.
These were payments that helped lower
out-of-pocket expenses for people par-
ticipating in the Affordable Care Act
exchanges, and this was a critical com-
ponent. So when that was done, it
meant that there were higher out-of-
pocket costs for almost 90,000 Wiscon-
sinites.
The Trump administration also
slashed funding for outreach efforts to
help people know about the open en-
rollment periods and to know that they
needed to sign up for the healthcare
that is offered on the Affordable Care
Act exchanges.
Trusted navigator programs, like
those in my State, have had their fund-
ing cut by nearly 90 percent in the past
3 years. These navigators programs are
so helpful to people—particularly peo-
ple in rural areas—because they help to
guide people through the process of ob-
taining affordable, comprehensive,
healthcare protection and coverage. It
means that when these programs are
sabotaged, fewer people each year will
be able to get the help they need to
find and enroll in health insurance on
the exchanges.
The administration is also promoting
something that I call junk plans. These
are junk insurance plans. Why do I call
them that? Because they are relieved
of really having to do what you buy in-
surance to do. They do not have to
cover people with preexisting condi-
tions. They can say no, or they can
charge a rate so high that no one could
possibly afford it. They could have an
annual limit or a lifetime limit, or
they could simply carve out the pre-
existing condition and not offer cov-
erage for it.
These junk plans also have no obliga-
tion to cover any of the essential
health benefits as identified in the Af-
fordable Care Act. In Wisconsin, none
of these junk plans are required to
cover maternity care—none of them.
This takes us back to the days before
the Affordable Care Act, when no plans
in Wisconsin’s individual marketplace
covered maternity care. Beyond just
encouraging individuals to sign up for
these bad and very limited policies, the
administration supports allowing tax-
payer dollars to subsidize these plans.
So American taxpayers are potentially
footing the bill for junk health insur-
ance—some of which isn’t really worth
the paper it is written on.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budg-
et Office just announced that, as a re-
sult of these activities—the sabotage—
2 million more people will be without
health insurance by the year 2020. That
is just around the corner. After the Af-
fordable Care Act went into effect, we
saw more Americans than ever before
gain access to health insurance. But
according to the Congressional Budget
Office, during President Trump’s ten-
ure in the White House, 1 million more
people each year will have lost health
insurance.
The Trump administration is lit-
erally taking us backward on this mat-
ter, and American families are paying
the price. I wish I could say it stops
here, but there is more.
President Trump and Attorney Gen-
eral Barr are now taking sides in a case
that is pending in the Federal courts.
They are taking the position that the
court should strike down the entire Af-
fordable Care Act. This lawsuit threat-
ens to take away guaranteed health
protections and raise costs for Wiscon-
sinites and, frankly, for all Americans
who have preexisting health condi-
tions.
In Wisconsin, there are more than 2
million people in our State with some
sort of preexisting health condition,
and they would stand to lose their
guaranteed protections. It would once
again give insurance companies the
power to charge women higher pre-
miums than men or to deny health cov-
erage for women who get pregnant be-
cause it is considered, by the way, a
preexisting condition.
Over the past few weeks, I have been
meeting with Wisconsinites who,
frankly, want to know why the Presi-
dent is working so hard to repeal or
strike down or overturn their care,
raise costs, and take away their protec-
tions. They are really frightened. They
are frightened that if this lawsuit suc-
ceeds, insurance companies will again
be able to deny coverage or charge
higher premiums for the more than 133
million Americans who have some sort
of preexisting health condition.
I got to hear from Lindsey in Mil-
waukee, WI. Lindsey is a breast cancer
survivor. She will be on hormonal ther-
apy for another 2 years, and she will
continue to need MRIs, mammograms,
and blood work each year to be sure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.050 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2732 May 8, 2019
that her cancer has not returned.
Lindsey is worried that if the Afford-
able Care Act is repealed or overturned
in court, she could lose her healthcare
coverage because of a lifetime max-
imum, or she could be charged more be-
cause she has a preexisting condition.
Just recently, I met with Grace in
Green Bay. Grace is 15 years old, and
she has been living with type 1 diabetes
since she was just 2 years old. In order
to manage her disease, she needs insu-
lin and various other medical supplies
that cost $1,500 per month. Right now
those supplies are covered by her fam-
ily’s insurance, but Grace understands
that, without the Affordable Care Act,
her insurance company would again
have the power to charge her more or
deny her coverage because her diabetes
is a preexisting condition, and she
could also be at risk of reaching her
lifetime limit.
Grace and her mom are worried
about the Trump administration’s law-
suit to ask the court to strike down the
Affordable Care Act. She is worried—
they are worried—about Republican at-
tempts to eliminate protections for
people with preexisting conditions, and
they know that President Trump has
no plan to protect people with pre-
existing conditions. He never has, and I
suspect he never will.
The House recently passed a resolu-
tion that calls on the Trump adminis-
tration to reverse its position on re-
pealing the entire Affordable Care Act.
Last year I heard several Senate Re-
publicans promise to protect people
with preexisting health conditions.
More than one of my new Republican
colleagues campaigned on it in 2018.
Here is their chance to prove it. Let’s
vote on this resolution in the Senate so
every Senator in this body can be on
record protecting healthcare for people
with preexisting conditions. It is time.
It is time for Senate Republicans to
take a stand against President Trump’s
sabotage so we can start working in a
bipartisan way to expand coverage and
lower healthcare costs.
As I have said in this Chamber many
times before, the people of Wisconsin
want both parties in Congress to work
together and to make things better by
making healthcare more affordable and
taking on rising prescription drug
costs. I heard from countless Wiscon-
sinites who are struggling to afford the
prescription medication that they need
to live, and prices keep going up year
after year.
Jackie from Muskego was diagnosed
with an incurable blood cancer in Au-
gust of 2015. She takes a drug called
REVLIMID for her cancer, and her
medication costs her up to $21,000 per
year just to stay alive.
Since the beginning of 2017, Celgene
has increased the price of REVLIMID
by nearly 25 percent.
President Trump campaigned on low-
ering the cost of prescription drugs,
but so far we are not seeing any re-
sults. It has been all talk. Instead, with
his tax bill, President Trump gave drug
companies a huge corporate tax break
as they continued to increase the cost
of prescription drugs.
Pfizer, for example, got an estimated
11 billion dollars in tax breaks. Then,
they announced that they were raising
the list price of 41 of their prescription
drugs that they manufacture. You
know, it is time to take action, to hold
these drug companies accountable, and
it is why this week I am introducing a
bipartisan plan with Senator BRAUN of
Indiana to require basic transparency
and accountability for drug companies
that increase their list prices.
Drug corporations are making pre-
scription drugs more and more expen-
sive with no systematic transparency
for taxpayers. Meanwhile, American
families, taxpayers, and our healthcare
system are footing the bill for these
price increases, and then are forced to
pay more still at the pharmacy for the
medications they need.
We need greater transparency. We
need greater accountability for drug
corporations that are jacking up the
costs for families in need of affordable,
lifesaving treatments.
I wanted to thank Senator BRAUN for
working with me on this effort, as well
as Senator MURKOWSKI for joining this
effort, because both Democrats and Re-
publicans agree that prescription drug
costs are too high in this country. So
let’s work together to bring relief to
American families.
I strongly believe that if both parties
look past the partisan debate in Wash-
ington, we can find common ground on
solutions that work for the American
people, and I stand ready to work with
any of my colleagues in the Senate on
solutions that help to lower costs and
expand healthcare coverage for our
constituents.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
want to address my colleagues with
three different subjects. The first one
is very, very short. It is things that are
being talked about right now, particu-
larly in the other body.
Many in the media seem very, very
unhappy with the results of the
Mueller report, or they might be em-
barrassed that the world knows that
they sold a bunch of snake oil for the
past 2 years, talking for 2 years about
collusion with Russia, and now after
the Mueller report has come out, they
find out that the jig is up.
I hope the media will pursue the ori-
gins of the Russian collusion investiga-
tion with the very same vigor over the
last 2 years that they pursued the col-
lusion narrative. It will go a long way,
then, to restore the media’s damaged
credibility, and knowing how all of this
started will help us to prevent such a
fiasco from ever happening again.
MIDWEST FLOODING
Mr. President, for the third or fourth
time, I want to visit with my col-
leagues about the flooding in the Mid-
west and particularly my State of
Iowa. This is ongoing flooding in the
Midwest and particularly Iowa, and it
is not going to end for a while.
Flooding on the Mississippi has got-
ten worse, as flood protection has not
been adequate in several areas of Scott
County along the Mississippi to deal
with historic water levels.
Parts of the downtown area in Dav-
enport are now inundated with flood-
waters. This picture is a perfect exam-
ple of it. I think you probably have
seen this on television quite a lot. This
area includes many businesses and
homes. It appears that this will be the
most damaging flood in Davenport’s
history. Unfortunately, the National
Weather Service reports that this
week’s forecast is filled with rain for
the whole of our State of Iowa, which
could cause additional flooding or re-
flooding throughout the State.
The Missouri River could rise 2 to 4
feet, depending on location and tribu-
tary flows. As of right now, most of
southwest Iowa is without even mini-
mal flood protection due to the
breached, overtopped, or compromised
levees caused by the unique weather
system that brought record flows down
the lower Missouri River earlier this
year. The Army Corps of Engineers is
working to fix the large breaches, but
communities are threatened by even
minor rain.
This recovery will be long, and Fed-
eral resources will continue to be need-
ed as the restoration and the rebuild-
ing that are necessary take place. I am
committed to continuing to work at
the Federal level to help Iowa and our
neighboring States through this whole
process.
In April, the Environment and Public
Works Committee held a field hearing
on the Midwest floods chaired by Sen-
ator ERNST of Iowa, and she and I,
along with other Senators, had a
chance to question the Army Corps of
Engineers on its management of the
Missouri River.
For years, I have worked with several
of my congressional colleagues to
make flood control the No. 1 priority of
the Corps in its management of the
Missouri River. Protection of life and
property should take precedence over
recreation and experiments that may
or may not help endangered species and
the other purposes of the river identi-
fied in the Army Corps of Engineers’
master manual.
From 1979 until the changes in that
manual in 2004, the manual stated that
the No. 1 priority was flood control; in
other words, protecting life and prop-
erty was more important than any-
thing else. Changes to the manual
made in the year 2004 made it so that
the Corps must consider other purposes
for the river. They have to balance
these other purposes with flood con-
trol.
Since 2004, there has been a dramatic
increase in flood frequency and flood-
water levels. The river’s flood-carrying
capacity has greatly changed, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.051 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2733
May 8, 2019
there were no natural events before
2011 that could have caused these
changes.
I reiterate—life safety and property
should be the No. 1 priority of the
Corps in its management of the Mis-
souri River.
My colleagues and I have also heard
complaints about the unresponsive
Corps and the lack of communication
with local residents about the floods.
After the 2011 floods, some communica-
tions were enhanced; however, a lack of
updated data and communication was
still one of the most common com-
plaints.
As a direct result of meetings with
local levee sponsors, homeowners,
small businesses, farmers, and other
stakeholders, a group of 10 Senators re-
quested that the Corps begin sending
email updates to all local sponsors on a
weekly basis starting within 30 days.
These updates should include snowpack
levels, available flood control storage
in the Missouri River Mainstem Res-
ervoir System, cubic feet per second re-
lease rates at the system’s dams, and
flow rates to key tributaries, as well as
current National Weather Service pre-
cipitation forecasts and the spring
flood outlook.
Today, the Environment and Public
Works Committee held a hearing on
oversight of the Public Works Pro-
gram. My colleagues on the committee
are asking Corps leadership about flood
control on the Missouri River and what
emergency resources are necessary to
help the Corps with the recovery proc-
ess.
With over 100 miles of levees needing
repair, we know that additional re-
sources will be needed. We also know
that the State of Iowa, Iowa commu-
nities, and individual Iowans will need
assistance from programs such as the
community development block grant
and Economic Development Adminis-
tration disaster accounts.
I have been working with my col-
leagues on the Senate Appropriations
Committee to ensure that critical
funding for Iowa is provided through
the emergency supplemental appro-
priations. I filed an amendment to the
disaster bill, along with my colleagues
from the Midwest, to help farmers who
have lost an estimated $17.3 million to
$34 million of their on-farm stored corn
and soybeans. My amendment would
allow impacted midwestern farmers to
address agricultural losses not covered
by crop insurance or other programs. I
will continue to provide the Appropria-
tions Committee with damage and need
assessments for recovery in Iowa as we
get further clarity on the actual num-
bers.
Furthermore, several Midwest Sen-
ators and I introduced the Disaster Tax
Relief Act of 2019. This bill includes a
series of disaster tax relief provisions
that will help American families and
businesses recover from the terrible
disasters that have occurred so far in
2019, including the Midwest flooding.
The disaster tax relief provisions we
have worked on will reduce penalties
and make it easier for people to access
retirement funds so that individuals
and families can get back on their feet
faster and rebuild their lives. They also
make it easier for disaster victims to
claim personal casualty losses, and
they suspend certain limitations on
charitable contributions to encourage
more donations for disaster relief. For
businesses affected by the disasters,
this tax relief is available to help them
retain employees while the businesses
get back up and running.
Iowa Governor Reynolds and her ad-
ministration are working closely with
FEMA on adding Scott County to the
existing disaster declaration and on
other key needs, such as housing as-
sistance for communities in southwest
Iowa that have very few existing op-
tions for people to return to or stay in
those communities.
I have talked to Acting Adminis-
trator Gaynor of FEMA about this
matter and urged him to promptly
work on getting this much needed as-
sistance to those in need.
Governor Reynolds has also estab-
lished a flood recovery advisory board
to coordinate flood recovery and re-
building efforts across Federal, State,
and local levels of government. As an
ex-officio member, I am looking for-
ward to participating in these meetings
to ensure that the Federal Government
is offering needed assistance to Iowans
affected by the flooding.
This isn’t a case of our doing some-
thing new through the Federal Govern-
ment for people hurt by natural disas-
ters; this is a case of following policy
that has been part of the Federal Gov-
ernment for several decades that the
Federal Government is an insurer of
last resort for natural disasters that
can’t be anticipated and appropriate
insurance provided in advance.
So I expect that the Federal Govern-
ment will do exactly what we have
done for decades and do it in a non-
partisan way, almost in a consensus
way, as we have in the past, and re-
plenish these funds that provide the
money for this disaster.
I happen to appreciate the stamina
and determination of Iowans in fight-
ing these natural disasters. Many of
these people I am referring to have a
long recovery ahead of them. This Iowa
spirit will help us pull through these
difficult times stronger and better, just
as we have in the past.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter—relatively shorter compared to
what I just said about flooding—mil-
lions of Americans rely on lifesaving
prescription medicine.
I am here to report to my colleagues
what Secretary Azar announced earlier
today about making available informa-
tion on the price of drugs on television
advertising that you see so often about
drugs—all kinds of information but not
much information about what a drug
costs, and the public ought to know
that.
Americans across the country expect
and depend upon breakthrough drugs
to live longer, healthier lives; however,
these miracle medicines won’t save
lives if people can’t afford to take
them.
As chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, I have been taking a close
look at the drug supply chain in the
United States. I am working to lower
drug prices.
By the way, this is being handled in
not only a bipartisan way in our com-
mittee, but I believe this will also end
up being very bicameral. The Finance
Committee has held a series of hear-
ings on this issue. So far, we have
heard from economists, executives
from the pharmaceutical industry, and
pharmacy benefit managers. I have
also introduced a handful of bipartisan
bills to increase competition. These
bills are bipartisan, and now we are
finding they are even bicameral. In
fact, the House of Representatives
tends to be ahead of us here in the Sen-
ate on these issues, so there is bipar-
tisan momentum going to help us ac-
complish our goals.
Perhaps more importantly—and I
don’t think he gets enough credit for
this—we also have President Trump
leading the battle from the White
House, based on a speech he made in
June last year and based on several
steps Secretary Azar has taken to
carry out the edict from President
Trump to lower the prices of prescrip-
tion drugs. What was announced today
is the most recent step in that direc-
tion. I am going to get to that in just
a minute.
There is one common denominator
contributing to the high prices Ameri-
cans pay for prescription drugs. It boils
down to one word—secrecy. What Sec-
retary Azar did today is attacking that
secrecy. There is zero price trans-
parency in the U.S. healthcare system.
In our system of free enterprise, com-
petition and transparency drives inno-
vation. It drives higher quality, and it
lowers costs. Americans have to hunt
for a good bargain. You can bet your
bottom dollar, Iowans know where to
fill up their gasoline tanks, and they
do it, in most instances, I will bet, at
the most affordable place. When there
is no transparency, there is no price
comparison. That is a big reason there
is sticker shock at the pharmacy
counter, and American consumers and
taxpayers are of course paying the
price.
The pharmaceutical industry spends
a boatload on direct-to-consumer ad-
vertising, which is to the tune of $6 bil-
lion a year. That is probably why the
average American today sees nine pre-
scription drug ads every day. The Food
and Drug Administration regulates
these ads for truthfulness and requires
the disclosure of side effects, but the
industry however is not required to dis-
close to consumers how much drugs
cost. Now that is about to change, and
that happened this morning.
I am glad Secretary Azar is making
good on President Trump’s commit-
ment to lower drug prices for Ameri-
cans that he announced in a speech last
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.053 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2734 May 8, 2019
June. Health and Human Services has
finalized its rule to require price dis-
closure on TV ads for prescription
drugs. Price transparency is a critical
remedy to help cure the high cost of
prescription drugs in America. These
regulations will help toward that. It is
not a final solution.
Final solutions are going to come in
bipartisan and bicameral legislation
that we are going to consider later this
year. Just to throw out a compliment
to Senator DURBIN of Illinois, because
he and I worked on this very subject
that Senator Azar announced a solu-
tion for by regulation, we tried to get
this in a requirement in legislation
that went to the President last year.
We did get it through the U.S. Senate.
It did not get through the House of
Representatives. Secretary Azar found,
through reading laws we passed many
years ago, that he had the authority to
do what the House of Representatives a
year ago didn’t have guts enough to
do—take on the pharmaceutical com-
panies—because they opposed the Dur-
bin-Grassley amendment. Now it has
been done as a result of regulation by
Secretary Azar, which is the direct re-
sult of instructions given to Secretary
Azar by President Trump back in June
of last year that we have to do some-
thing to reduce drug prices.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from New Hamp-
shire.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, as
Mother’s Day approaches, I rise to join
my Democratic colleagues in sharing
our constituents’ stories about the im-
portance of protecting women’s access
to healthcare.
No matter where they live and no
matter their economic status, women
in our country deserve access to com-
prehensive preventive care and family
planning services that will enable them
to stay healthy and to thrive. We know
centers like Planned Parenthood have
made a huge difference in the lives of
the women they serve. My office re-
cently heard from a woman named
Ashley from Hooksett, who said:
I am safe, healthy, and educated thanks to
Planned Parenthood.
She continues speaking about
Planned Parenthood:
When I was fifteen, they were there to help
me understand the changes that my body
was going through and provide me with the
information I needed to keep myself healthy
and protected.
Throughout the rest of my teenage years, I
have trusted Planned Parenthood to provide
me with all of my routine healthcare proce-
dures.
Ashley continues:
In more desperate times, they were there
to explain my options and support my deci-
sions with anonymity and compassion.
Ashley goes on to say:
I am deeply concerned about the Title 10
gag rule and the implications it may have on
my getting the care I need.
I’m thankful for elected officials who are
fighting back and speaking out for me and
the thousands of people like me who deserve
access to quality, affordable care, no matter
their income or zip code.
Ashley’s story is one of thousands
that speak to the importance of title
X-supported health centers, including
Planned Parenthood, which are a major
source of preventive care and reproduc-
tive health services, including cancer
screenings, birth control, HIV and STI
tests, and counseling services.
In New Hampshire, title X-funded
centers deliver care to nearly 18,000
Granite Staters annually, and title X-
supported Planned Parenthood centers
serve 60 percent of those 18,000 Granite
Staters. This is why the Trump admin-
istration’s actions to discriminate
against providers and to cut invest-
ments in family planning clinics are so
dangerous, and it is why we have to
keep fighting for women like Ashley,
who are rightfully concerned about
this constant barrage of attacks on
healthcare.
I am going to continue standing with
my Democratic colleagues on behalf of
women’s constitutionally protected
rights and against the Trump adminis-
tration’s partisan attacks on women’s
access to healthcare.
NOMINATION OF JANET DHILLON
Mr. President, I rise to express my
disappointment about the confirmation
earlier today of Janet Dhillon to the
position of Chair of the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission, EEOC.
In December, I joined Senator MUR-
RAY on the floor to express my concern
about the fact that Republicans were
blocking a well-qualified nominee, Chai
Feldblum, to the EEOC.
The EEOC is a vital and bipartisan
agency that enforces workers’ civil
rights and helps protect them from
harassment and discrimination while
they are on the job. The EEOC has long
operated with bipartisan support and
requires a quorum of its five members
to decide the cases before the agency,
cases which include racial discrimina-
tion, gender discrimination, age dis-
crimination, and the discrimination
against people who experience disabil-
ities.
The partisan obstruction of the
Feldblum nomination marked a signifi-
cant break in precedent for how we
nominate members to this Board, and
the administration still has not nomi-
nated a replacement for Ms. Feldblum.
The Senate should not have moved for-
ward until that happened.
It is also clear that Ms. Dhillon
would not fulfill the duties that the
EEOC is entrusted with, particularly
with protecting workers and ensuring
that members of the LGBTQ commu-
nity are not discriminated against. Ms.
Dhillon has served as a leader of the
Retail Litigation Center, which has
long opposed pro-consumer and pro-em-
ployee policies.
Additionally, during her nomination
hearing before the HELP Committee,
Ms. Dhillon would not commit to main-
taining the current EEOC position that
the Civil Rights Act forbids employ-
ment discrimination based on gender
identity or sexual orientation, saying
‘‘that current law is in flux.’’
For a Commission that is tasked
with enhancing workers’ rights and
protections, we cannot have a nominee
with a record of putting corporations
first and who is unwilling to ensure
that LGBTQ people are not discrimi-
nated against in the workplace.
I oppose this nomination, and I am
disappointed that more of my col-
leagues did not do the same.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, this
coming Sunday, mothers and other spe-
cial women who are mother figures and
caregivers for our children across the
country will be honored for the impor-
tant work they do to nuture the next
generation.
Many moms will receive cards and
flowers. Some will enjoy breakfast in
bed or dinner out. A few lucky ones
might get plaster handprints or hand-
made mugs—I love those. These gifts,
no matter what they are, will be treas-
ured because when it comes right down
to it, all moms really want are a couple
of things. They want their children to
be happy, and they want their children
to be healthy.
Unfortunately, thanks to this admin-
istration’s continuing attacks on our
healthcare, a lot of mothers can no
longer count on that. Just ask Rachel
whose daughter Alice was born in De-
troit with a heart condition called
Shone’s complex. When Alice was only
1 day old, she had her first open heart
surgery. Think about that. She was 1
day old. Four years later, she has an
artificial heart valve, a love of danc-
ing, and the biggest grin you have ever
seen. She also has what the insurance
companies call a preexisting condition.
She will have to take heart medication
for the rest of her life.
Alice’s mom, Rachel, writes:
Her hospital stays and medications cost
well over a million dollars—closer to two
million. Without the (Affordable Care Act),
our family would be bankrupt, worrying
about how to pay for her life-saving medica-
tions.
No mom should have to worry about
going bankrupt because her child was
born with a heart condition. It could
happen to any of us. No family should
go broke paying for the medication
that is keeping their child alive. Alice
deserves better, and Alice’s mom de-
serves better too.
I have said it before, and I will say it
over and over again: Healthcare is per-
sonal. It is not political. We should be
working across the aisle to expand ac-
cess to care, improve quality, reduce
costs, and we should be doing some-
thing to resolve the maternal and in-
fant mortality crisis that is happening
right now in the United States of
America so Mother’s Day is a day of
joy instead of a day of sorrow.
Instead, we find ourselves fighting an
administration that will not stop try-
ing to take away the protections that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.055 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2735
May 8, 2019
people like Alice count on and that
thousands, millions across the country
count on. In fact, the U.S. Department
of Justice last month agreed with a
Federal judge in Texas who said the en-
tire Affordable Care Act must be
struck down, and that includes cov-
erage for those with preexisting condi-
tions.
Not to be outdone, the Senate Repub-
licans passed a budget resolution out of
committee that includes repeal of the
Affordable Care Act with no replace-
ment. What would that mean for
Michigan families? Our Healthy Michi-
gan Program that provides healthcare
to more than 650,000 Michiganders,
gone. Children staying on their parents
insurance until age 26, gone. Lower
drug prices for seniors, gone. Protec-
tions for people with preexisting condi-
tions, gone. That would be horrible
news for Alice and every other Michi-
gan child born with a heart condition
or any other health challenge.
So what is the Republican alter-
native to the ACA? They don’t have
one, but don’t worry. President Trump
says Republicans will unveil a ‘‘really
great’’ healthcare plan after the 2020
election—after the 2020 election.
In the meantime, the Affordable Care
Act could be struck down in the courts,
with the support of the Trump admin-
istration, and Alice and her mom could
really be out of luck.
In honor of Mother’s Day, here is
what we should be doing together. We
should reaffirm the Affordable Care
Act’s protections for Alice and all peo-
ple with preexisting conditions. We
should, once again, guarantee that
every insurance plan covers prenatal
and maternity care—by the way, in-
stead of the junk plans the administra-
tion is approving right now that don’t
cover prenatal and maternity care. We
should also strengthen healthcare for
moms and babies through the Chil-
dren’s Health Insurance Program and
Medicaid, which cover about half of the
births in our country.
A few years ago, the Finance Com-
mittee reported out a bipartisan bill
that I led with Senator GRASSLEY. It
was called the Quality Care for Moms
and Babies Act. This bill would create
a set of maternal and infant quality
care measures in the Children’s Health
Insurance Program and Medicaid. The
goal is simple: improving maternal and
infant health outcomes.
It is amazing that we don’t have uni-
form quality health standards across
the country. The Quality Care for
Moms and Babies Act will help make
sure that every mom gets the best
pregnancy care possible and every baby
gets a healthy start. That is what we
should be passing.
In America today, that is, unfortu-
nately, not the case. Our maternal
mortality rate is climbing. African-
American women are three times more
likely to die from pregnancy-related
causes than are other American
women, and our infant mortality rate
ranks a shameful 32 among the world’s
35 wealthiest nations—32 out of 35 in
our great country.
We need to change this so more
moms and their children will enjoy a
happy Mother’s Day. Moms like Rachel
shouldn’t be spending their Mother’s
Day worrying about what will happen
to their children if the Republicans
succeed in undoing the Affordable Care
Act.
In thinking back on Alice’s diag-
nosis, Rachel said:
I cannot express how stressful and gut-
wrenching a time this was for my family. I
am thankful every day for the Affordable
Care Act.
Moms deserve more than flowers and
a card. They deserve the peace of mind
that comes from knowing their chil-
dren are born as healthy as possible
and will have the healthcare coverage
they need. Our moms gave us life. This
Mother’s Day, let’s pay it forward.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING ELLIS ‘‘REED’’ PARLIER AND
RILEY HOWELL
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I come
here with a heavy heart.
On April 30, at 4:40 p.m., a shooting
occurred in the Kennedy Building on
the campus of the University of North
Carolina at Charlotte. It is a college
campus. It is only about 15 minutes
from my house. The shooting occurred
on the last day of classes. When a lot of
family members and friends were
thinking about graduation and think-
ing about what they were going to do
over the summer, their lives were shat-
tered. I am here to celebrate the lives
of two of the victims.
Before I do that, I thank all of the
first responders and the people on cam-
pus who did an extraordinary job. The
first among them would be Chancellor
Dubois, and there are so many more
first responders.
What makes this particularly dif-
ficult for me is the loss of life of two
young men—one who was 19, Ellis
‘‘Reed’’ Parlier, and Riley Howell, who
was 21 years old. These kids were in
school.
One, Ellis, enrolled in 2017. He loved
video games. He wanted to be a video
game developer. He was a volunteer. He
actually tutored middle schoolers on
computer programming. His professor
described him as independent and mo-
tivated.
Another young man, Riley, who has
an extraordinary story within this hor-
rible act, enrolled in UNC Charlotte in
2018. He had gone to A-B Tech before
that. He was in environmental studies.
He loved the outdoors. He loved Star
Wars. He loved pizza and playing soc-
cer. He was just a normal kid who was
going to college. He was also enrolled
in the ROTC at UNC Charlotte. What
makes his story extraordinary are the
accounts from police officers. If you
understand the Kennedy Building,
there are a lot of people around and a
lot of classrooms. There are a lot of po-
tential victims. This young man actu-
ally charged the gunman. Although he
lost his own life, most police credit
him with saving the lives of so many
more.
So, on this sad day that we will never
forget—the day of April 30—I come be-
fore this body to let them know and
their families know that we are pray-
ing for them.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
PUBLIC SERVICE RECOGNITION WEEK
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, typi-
cally, when we talk about Federal em-
ployees or a Federal Agency, the story
starts something like this. There was a
mixup in paperwork for our con-
stituent who had Social Security Ad-
ministration retirement benefits. She
ended up not having Part B Medicare
coverage until later, and there was a
lapse in coverage.
Everyone gets frustrated over the
mixup, the dropped paperwork, the
problem, and they never hear the story
of Amber Craft, who works in the Tulsa
Social Security office. She chased the
whole issue down. She did everything
possible with the payment center to
get inputs switched on the Medicare
application and ended up getting the
constituent’s coverage to begin in the
desired month to be able to get them
taken care of. They were taken care of
on their medical bills because a Fed-
eral employee saw the gap, ran to the
need, and helped somebody in our
State.
This is Public Service Recognition
Week, and I want to take a little bit of
time because in this body, as with
many people in the Nation, we catch
ourselves at times complaining more
than we praise. There are a lot of peo-
ple who are scattered around the Na-
tion right now serving their neighbors
as Federal employees. We have a lot of
those in Oklahoma, and there are some
pretty remarkable folks who are my
neighbors whom I get the opportunity
to meet with.
There are over 93,000 Federal employ-
ees, both active and retired, both Fed-
eral and on the Postal Service side—
93,000 just in my State in Oklahoma—
and that doesn’t include the many
teachers, firefighters, first responders,
and other folks who work with public
agencies on the city, State, and county
levels as well. We are grateful to those
folks because they make an incredible
difference.
There are folks like Martha Gibson,
who works in the VA center in
Muskogee. She works in the benefits
office, taking care of trying to get ben-
efits for our veterans when there are
problems—and there have been prob-
lems at times. Martha works incredibly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.056 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2736 May 8, 2019
well with our team. As we get a call
from a constituent and try to chase
down the issue to be able to help figure
out how we can resolve it, Martha is
typically the one we call in the
Muskogee office, and Martha, quite
frankly, pretty often gets it solved—
not just helping us but helping other
Oklahomans.
Alexandria Hyatt is another good one
to be able to talk about. She works in
the Enterprise Services Center at the
Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center
with the FAA in Oklahoma City. She is
an exceptional example of a Federal
employee who not only works incred-
ibly hard—not just for the FAA but for
other Agencies, as well, that the FAA
serves through the Enterprise Services
Center—but she is one of those folks
who we are glad is our neighbor.
You see, she is a Federal employee,
but she also, just last year, in 2018,
gave 850 hours away of her volunteer
time serving with welfare agencies,
working on weekends, and using her
own leave. She is a licensed journey-
man for HVAC. So she finds places
where she can use that skill to serve
other people, including putting in duct
work and insulation, working on mold
remediation, first aid, and teaching.
After Hurricane Katrina, she spent 3
weeks roofing and providing mold re-
mediation in the Hurricane Katrina
area. In 2015, she spent 6 weeks in New
York City insulating and inspecting
HVAC supply vents on residency floors.
After Hurricane Irma, she spent 2
weeks repairing and installing roofs.
She is a Federal employee. She gives
away her time, not just in her day job
but in serving people on nights and
weekends and taking her own vacation
on this.
We have Donald O’Connor, who spent
50 years as a civil servant. He also
served Active Duty in the Air Force
and in the Air National Guard for 30
years. He is a pretty remarkable serv-
ant with a pretty long legacy.
Bryan Whittle is another FAA em-
ployee and an Oklahoma National
Guardsman. He served very faithfully
both for the Oklahoma National Guard
and the FAA. It was last year when he
walked into a restaurant in Oklahoma
City and heard and saw a gunman who
was opening fire in a restaurant. Bryan
was one of them who actually ran to-
ward the shots, and in a historic work
and in a heroic act, he stopped a shoot-
ing at a restaurant in Oklahoma City,
because this Federal employee and
Guardsman actually engaged to be able
to serve.
We have Lieutenant Wayland Cubit.
He is from the Oklahoma City Police
Department. He has a program that he
actually works very actively in called
the Family Awareness and Community
Teamwork program, or FACT. He
spends a lot of time working with stu-
dents trying to help to engage people
with police officers, because a lot of
times kids grow up in neighborhoods
and communities or maybe in families
where they don’t hear positive things
about their police departments. So he
is constantly reaching out to help peo-
ple. He is active in mentoring pro-
grams.
This statement was written about
him:
On any given week, Cubit and fellow offi-
cers will work with up to 100 children. Once
a week they hold a character-building night
in northeast Oklahoma City. Another night
they host the same program in south Okla-
homa City. First-time offenders come for a
juvenile intervention program one night a
week. FACT hosts a youth leadership acad-
emy once a month.
He is a police officer, but he is also a
mentor and an activist to help the next
generation of people.
We have folks like Casey Farrar. He
is a lead engineer on the B–2. Now, we
don’t think about the B–2, other than
we are very grateful that we have the
B–2. But here is what is interesting.
Mr. Farrar was directly responsible for
saving the U.S. Air Force—therefore,
the U.S. taxpayers—$63 million in 2018.
His work on several projects, including
replacement of electrical cables on the
rotary launcher system, as well as up-
grades to those rotary launchers, im-
proves the B–2 capabilities way into
the future and will make an incredible
difference and save the taxpayers a lot
of money. At times, we hear about
things that actually waste dollars, and
we lose track of folks like this, an en-
gineer, who just saved the taxpayer $63
million.
Matt Lehenbauer works as an emer-
gency management director for the
city of Woodward and Woodward Coun-
ty. He has been very influential work-
ing through the fire seasons that we
have had in northwest Oklahoma. He is
one of those folks who is actually help-
ing to protect his neighbors by working
with emergency management.
He has folks working alongside of
him who are traveling down the roads,
like Trooper Austin Ellis in the Okla-
homa Highway Patrol. He was on a rou-
tine patrol but was shot last August—
just another day for him. He was able
to withstand the bullets and recover,
despite a fractured rib. And, by the
way—as he would want me to say to
you—they got the guy.
Tommie Nicholas works for USCIS,
or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Service. Ms. Nicholas reviews and
makes case determinations, provides
technical and administrative advice,
and assigns work based on priorities.
She has worked for USCIS for two dec-
ades and is one of those folks who is al-
ways ready to assist.
She has helped in situations where
there is an individual with a pending
immigration case who needs to travel
to be with an ailing relative overseas
or when someone who needs urgent
proof of status to work for their fam-
ily, and she is the one who steps up and
goes above and beyond to help to take
care of folks’ immigration issues and
needs.
You see, again, folks at times push
back on people dealing with immigra-
tion issues, and they forget that there
are great folks who are out there serv-
ing their neighbors all the time.
Jim Lyall began his tenure with the
Community Service Council in 1980 as a
help line program director and became
associate director in 1991. He created
Oklahoma’s first 2–1-1 call center,
which allowed Oklahoma to be the first
to achieve national accreditation, and
helping 2–1-1 to become a statewide
service. At the Community Service
Council, his leadership in the creation
of Tulsa’s Heat Emergency Action Plan
and the Tulsa Weather Coalition air
conditioner loan program has contrib-
uted significantly to the health and
well-being of many Tulsans. He is an-
other one of those folks serving every
single day.
We can’t forget our teachers, who are
out there constantly helping the kids
in the next generation. Ms. Annette
Cain teaches second grade at Spring
Creek Elementary. On the second day
of school, this past school year, she
saw one of her students struggling to
read. She quickly connected with the
reading specialist, the principal, and
the parents to discuss how to help this
new second grader. Her concern was
that he might need to go back to first
grade or that he might be behind in
second grade and was just going to
need some additional help in reading.
That little second grader is now caught
up and has now had the ‘‘most im-
proved reading’’ award. That is good
for him, but it is good for Annette
Cain, who saw the problem and who re-
sponded to the needs of that child.
It reminds me of stories, day after
day after day, of folks like that who
are in Elgin, OK, like Don Myers, and
all the crew that is there doing special
education and so much work to be able
to help kids with the greatest amount
of need in Elgin; just like in other pro-
grams around the State, where those
teachers work with the parents, work
with other educators, and work with a
child to help that child way behind get
caught up or to help them in their own
development.
I am grateful that this week we get
to honor public service because there
are millions of public servants doing
amazing work to help their neighbors
all around the country.
Of all States and of all places, I re-
mind this body often that Oklahomans
pause every April 19 and remember a
domestic terrorist that parked a truck
bomb next to the Federal building and
killed 168 people out of his hatred for
public servants in the Federal Govern-
ment. We in Oklahoma remember that
public servants get up and go to work
every day to be able to serve their
neighbors, and we, as individuals, still
push back against those who just blind-
ly hate government and blindly hate
people who serve in government and
serve each other.
We don’t blindly hate. We deeply ap-
preciate and are grateful for what they
do. We as a State will never forget the
168 lives that were lost 24 years ago of
public servants taking care of their
neighbors. We are grateful.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.059 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2737
May 8, 2019
If you are a public servant and you
hear this, please accept my thank you.
Well done. I am proud to be your neigh-
bor.
EX-IM BANK
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, we
had three extremely well-qualified peo-
ple come before this body this week
who were nominated to the Board of
the Ex-Im Bank, the Export-Import
Bank. It is an entity that most individ-
uals across the country don’t even
know about. They don’t even know
what the Ex-Im Bank does. But it gets
caught up in a lot of politics here.
These extremely well-qualified peo-
ple were confirmed, and they are now
on their way to serve our Nation in
that area. I had to vote against them,
not because of who they are and their
qualifications—they are clearly quali-
fied—but because of my own frustra-
tion that this body has not been will-
ing to take on the most basic element
of reform of the Ex-Im Bank.
The charter of the Ex-Im Bank re-
quires the Bank ‘‘to seek to reach
international agreement to reduce gov-
ernment subsidized export financing.’’
That is in their charter. The problem
is, that is not being fulfilled. There has
been a push for a while to try to reform
the Ex-Im Bank. That push to reform
it has failed so far.
My encouragement to the new
quorum that is in the leadership role at
the Ex-Im Bank is to push to fulfill
their requirements to reduce govern-
ment-subsidized export financing, not
expand it, and to take the actions nec-
essary to do that—not only with our
Ex-Im structure but working with
other countries to reduce theirs. The
common phrase is ‘‘We have an ex-im
bank because other countries have an
ex-im bank.’’ Well, you know what,
other countries have a Communist
structure—like China. We are not try-
ing to model that either. Should we
take on every single subsidy other gov-
ernments do? Let’s try to find a way
for them to fulfill their charter.
In the meantime, I have proposed a
set of reforms that can be done to the
Ex-Im Bank to make it better. Some
are fairly obvious.
One of them is reducing taxpayer ex-
posure by prohibiting the Bank from
issuing direct loans.
I have also pushed very hard to have
this basic statement: a sense of the
Senate that the Bank is a lender of last
resort, not the first place to go to.
That, again, should be a no-brainer for
them.
Here is the clearest and easiest re-
form. Ex-Im Bank brags about how
many small businesses use the Ex-Im
Bank services, but the next question is
not asked. How does Ex-Im Bank define
a small business? With chagrin, they
will say that their definition of a small
business is any business with 1,500 em-
ployees or fewer. That is not a small
business. So 1,500 employees or fewer is
a small business, according to Ex-Im
Bank. There are very few companies in
America with 1,500 employees.
The most basic thing we can do is
have Ex-Im Bank use the same defini-
tion the Small Business Administra-
tion uses for what a small business is
and then put the same requirement on
Ex-Im to also use small businesses and
engage with them.
We should also prohibit the Bank
from providing financing services to
foreign and state-owned entities. Why
are we financing another government
in what they are doing? Why are we ac-
tually providing competition for our
own companies, as Ex-Im does? They
give loans and subsidies to countries
and companies that compete against
American companies.
All of these ideas are basic reforms.
My push is not to abolish Ex-Im; it is
for Ex-Im to fulfill its charter and to
do its basic responsibility and to have
the most simple reforms that I think
are needed.
This is not just talk for us; we have
this legislation. We have pushed for
this before, and we will continue to
push for basic reforms at Ex-Im in the
days ahead.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today again to talk
about the drug epidemic that continues
to be such a big issue in my home
State of Ohio and around our country.
I am here now for my 56th floor speech,
I am told, on this topic, sometimes
talking about the opioid crisis that has
gripped my State the way it has so
many others in this Chamber but also
talking about other issues that relate
to the drug epidemic. It is not just
about the prescription drugs, the her-
oin, the fentanyl, and the carfentanil
that have impacted so many women
and children and families and dev-
astated so many communities; there
are also other issues. The one I want to
talk about today is what is happening
with regard to crystal meth.
Methamphetamine is back with a
vengeance, and we need to have a more
effective response to it. Congress has
done quite a bit in the last several
years to push back against this drug
epidemic.
New policies have been put in place
at the Federal level for the past few
years that are promoting better pre-
vention, treatment, and recovery and
helping our law enforcement respond
with Narcan—that miracle drug that
reverses the effects of overdoses—and
helping to ensure that we have a pre-
vention message out there that is more
effective.
Congress has now spent more than $3
billion in additional funding—taxpayer
dollars—to support treatment and re-
covery programs, and it has been need-
ed. The Comprehensive Addiction and
Recovery Act has provided a lot of
that, and so has the 21st Century Cures
Act. That goes directly to the States.
The good news is that these efforts
are actually starting to pay off. Drug
overdose deaths are still way too high.
In Ohio, we started with a high-water
mark, but after 8 years of more people
dying every single year, finally, last
year, we saw in Ohio and around the
country a reduction in overdose deaths.
That is great news. We peaked in 2017
at 72,000 Americans losing their lives.
It is the No. 1 cause of death in my
home State of Ohio and the No. 1 cause
of death for all Americans under the
age of 50.
The progress has been particularly
encouraging in places like Ohio. We
saw a 21.4-percent drop in overdose
deaths in the first half of last year,
2018. Those are the last numbers we
have and the most recent data we have.
That was the biggest drop in the Na-
tion, actually, between July of 2017 and
June of 2018. So in that 1-year period,
according to the CDC’s National Center
for Health Statistics, Ohio had the big-
gest drop in the country. Again, that
was partly because Ohio’s numbers
were so high. We were second in the
Nation in overdose deaths, from that
data.
Nationally, we are seeing a more
promising, if more modest, downturn
in overdose deaths. Between September
of 2017 and March of 2018, overdose
deaths fell from about 72,000 to about
71,000. Overall, the overdose rate
dropped in 21 States and nearly a full
percentage point nationally. So at
least we are seeing some progress fi-
nally, after 8 years of increases every
year and more and more heartbreak.
This is progress.
I think we would have been doing
even better, frankly, if we hadn’t seen
the big influx of fentanyl over the last
3 or 4 years. Again, Congress has passed
important legislation, but we are push-
ing up against more and more fentanyl
coming into our communities. That is
an incredibly powerful synthetic
opioid—50 times more powerful than
heroin—inexpensive, and it is coming
primarily from China and primarily
through the U.S. mail system.
Our pushback on that more recently
that is starting to be effective is called
the STOP Act. We just passed it in this
body last year. What the STOP Act
says is that the post office has to start
screening packages, particularly from
countries like China, from which we
know fentanyl is coming in. They
haven’t done exactly what we asked
them to do yet, but they are doing a
better job of stopping the poison from
coming in from China, which is where
the vast majority comes from.
Today, even as we see progress on
opioids and as we see somewhat less
fentanyl coming in and therefore high-
er prices for fentanyl on the street,
which is important—as we see this
progress, we are also seeing something
that is very discouraging. What I have
been hearing now for over a year from
law enforcement, treatment providers,
social service providers, and commu-
nity leaders back home is that there is
a resurgence of methamphetamine—
pure, powerful crystal meth—coming
primarily from Mexico.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.061 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2738 May 8, 2019
I meet regularly with treatment pro-
viders and drug abuse task forces all
over our State. Recently, I talked to
community leaders in Knox County, at
the Southeast Healthcare Services in
Columbus, at the ADAMHS Board in
Adams, Lawrence, and Scioto Counties,
the Hamilton County Heroin Coalition,
and community leaders and law en-
forcement in Butler County. Every sin-
gle meeting ended up the same way: We
are finally making progress on opioids.
Thanks for your help—because all
these communities are taking advan-
tage of the legislation we passed here—
but the new scourge is crystal meth.
Help us with that.
Often they are saying that this crys-
tal meth is being laced with something
else, sometimes fentanyl. So this same
deadly fentanyl we talked about earlier
is sometimes now being laced with
crystal meth, making for a devastating
cocktail.
The October 2018 report from Ohio
University said that
psychostimulants—including meth-
amphetamine—were found in just nine
unintentional deaths in 2010. That
number rose to 509 in 2017, the most re-
cent data we have. That is an over
5,000-percent increase. Something is
happening out there. Again, having fi-
nally gotten control of the opioid issue,
even the fentanyl, synthetic opioids,
which is the latest surge, now we are
seeing methamphetamine deaths rising
dramatically.
According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, deaths involv-
ing cocaine and psychostimulants, in-
cluding meth, have also increased na-
tionwide in recent years. Among the
more than 70,000 drug overdose deaths
in 2017, nearly 23,000—nearly one-
third—involved psychostimulants such
as meth, cocaine, or both. From 2016 to
2017, deaths rates involving cocaine and
psychostimulants like meth each in-
creased by approximately 33 percent.
This increase is across all demographic
groups, all census regions, and in sev-
eral States.
A July 2018 report from the Ohio De-
partment of Mental Health and Addic-
tion Services highlights the inter-
twined nature of rising meth usage
rates and the ongoing opioid crisis.
They said some meth users initially
turned to this drug to manage the
heavy crashes that followed prolonged
use of heroin and other opioids, and
then they became just as addicted to
meth as they were addicted to opioids.
So that is one reason I think we see
this increase in methamphetamines in
Ohio—because users are turning to
meth to manage the crashes that fol-
low prolonged use of heroin.
Meth is now stronger and cheaper
than ever before. Again, it is coming
almost exclusively to Ohio from Mex-
ico. The days of home chemists and the
one-pot meth labs are actually over.
You probably heard about it in your
community or other States where
these meth labs were a big setup, and
they created a huge environmental
problem, as well as the issue of pro-
ducing meth, which was devastating
communities.
Those meth labs are pretty much
gone now. In Ohio, there is not a coun-
ty that tells me there is a meth lab
left. That may sound like good news,
but it is actually bad news. The meth
labs are gone because the meth coming
in from Mexico is more powerful and it
is cheaper. So why make meth in the
basement when you can have crystal
meth delivered to your doorstep from
Mexico? It is being mass-produced by
Mexican drug cartels who are smug-
gling it into the United States.
According to Dennis Lowe, who is the
commander of the Major Crimes Unit
in Athens, OH, ‘‘[Mexican drug cartels]
almost single-handedly eliminated
meth labs in the State of Ohio. . . .
People are getting better quality prod-
uct and it’s cheaper to buy from a car-
tel.’’
So it is more powerful, more deadly,
and cheaper.
By the way, one Columbus, OH, en-
forcement officer recently told me that
crystal meth on the streets of Colum-
bus is less expensive than marijuana
now—another reason we see it increas-
ing.
As I have heard from folks all over
Ohio, we are also seeing meth laced
with other drugs, including fentanyl,
heroin, and cocaine. Many of these car-
tels splice these drugs into meth-
amphetamine but don’t tell the cus-
tomers, so users may be consuming
dangerous opioids without realizing it.
Any street drug can be deadly.
Much of the methamphetamine, as I
said, enters from Mexico through the
ports of entry. It comes in bulk
through the ports of entry. It is often
hidden in cars and trucks. Smugglers
make it through the screening process,
and they sell it to the distribution net-
work.
So we need to do more at the ports of
entry to have better screening. Accord-
ing to the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection folks, the amount of
methamphetamines seized at our ports
of entry has soared from 14,000 pounds
in 2012 to 56,000 pounds in 2018—a huge
increase. In fact, just in the last year
alone, we have seen a 38-percent in-
crease in methamphetamines traf-
ficking across the southern border.
According to the U.S. Attorney’s Of-
fice in the Northern District of Ohio,
the number of crystal meth submis-
sions to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal
Investigations’ lab rose from 2,000 in
2015 to over 12,000 in 2018—in just a 3-
year period, a 500-percent increase.
What’s happening with crystal meth
is one reason we need more resources
to secure our southern border. It is not
just my opinion. The experts at Cus-
toms and Border Protection tell us
they need more physical barriers; they
need more border patrol agents; they
need more technology; they need more
surveillance; they need more cameras;
they need more screening to stop this
illegal flow of drugs.
I think we are beginning now to
make some progress here since we are
deploying more sophisticated tech-
nology at the ports of entry, and that
is smart. But the traffickers are smart-
er, and they are also learning ways to
avoid those ports of entry, to go
around them, to cross wherever they
can continue this evil and prosperous
trade.
A story originating in Galion, OH,
last year caught the Nation’s atten-
tion. A 5-year-old was out trick-or-
treating for Halloween last year, and
he was exposed to meth and began suf-
fering from seizures and other symp-
toms of meth exposure.
Law enforcement checked his Hal-
loween candy, thinking that was the
problem, and it was not. It wasn’t laced
with the drug as they feared. But then
they found the meth. It was in his own
home—his own family home. His father
eventually was charged with possession
of drugs and tampering with evidence.
But here is a 5-year-old kid suffering
from a meth exposure.
Two weeks ago, I was in Knox Coun-
ty, OH, Central Ohio, where I partici-
pated in a roundtable discussion with
local elected leaders and law enforce-
ment officials, mental health recovery
folks. This board is focused on the
crystal meth problem. Why? Because it
is overwhelming them. Opioids used to
be their No. 1 issue. Now it is crystal
meth.
I was told that methamphetamines
are now involved in 89 percent of the
drug cases in Knox County, and in
many cases there is polysubstance
abuse or overlap with any combination
of meth, heroin, and marijuana.
Last August the Knox County Sher-
iff’s Department arrested three individ-
uals who were involved in trafficking,
distribution of meth, moving from Co-
lumbus into Knox County. By the way,
what law enforcement tells me about
methamphetamines is that they are
causing a new state of crimes, some-
what closer to the cocaine crimes that
would have been back in the 1990s when
cocaine was the primary concern.
Heroin is a drug that does not create
the same stimulant effect; it is not a
psychostimulant. So the crimes pri-
marily are crimes to pay for the
drugs—property crimes—whereas the
meth crimes often tend to be crimes of
violence because it is a stimulant like
cocaine.
So law enforcement tells me they are
very concerned. Their jails are being
crowded now with meth users who are
there for serious crimes. The big issue
they are looking at is this: How do you
get people through successful recovery?
Here is the other bad news: We do not
know much about how to help people in
recovery with methamphetamines. We
know that with regard to opioids, there
are medication-assisted treatments
that can be used, and, in general, re-
covery practices that work for opioids
can work for meth—taking people
through a therapy process—but there
are not the drugs to be able to help you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.062 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2739
May 8, 2019
through it, as there are with opioids.
So it is an even tougher problem in
some respects.
We talked about the Federal funding
that had been awarded to Knox County
when I was there, and they are really
happy about it. They are getting
money through the 21st Century Cures
funding that came from here, then
went to the State of Ohio, and went
down to them. They are getting money
from my CARA legislation, the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery
Act. They are also getting funding
from the Drug-Free Communities Act—
legislation that I authored when I was
in the House of Representatives many
years ago, and it is being used for pre-
vention very effectively in some of
these counties.
The one thing they said about the
funding was that they want to be sure
that there is more flexibility, particu-
larly in the 21st Century Cures fund. So
it can be used not just for opioids but
also for dealing with this meth issue,
which is their big problem now.
So my hope is that we will begin to
see some flexibility in those funding
streams to be able to help places like
Knox County.
We need to build a sustainable infra-
structure for prevention, treatment,
and longer term recovery from all
drugs. For these communities, having
that flexibility gives them the ability
to respond to whatever the latest prob-
lem is that is facing their community.
The U.S. Attorney’s Office based in
Cleveland, OH, which is led by Justin
Herdman, has been deeply involved in
this effort to combat the spread and
distribution of meth. Last August his
office indicted eight people in Federal
Court for their efforts to create a
methamphetamine and cocaine traf-
ficking supply network—a supply chain
from Mexico all the way to Ohio.
In connection to these arrests, DEA
agents seized more than 144 pounds of
meth from a warehouse outside of
Cleveland. It is believed to be the larg-
est seizure of methamphetamine in
Ohio history. Again, it demonstrates
just how serious this threat is and how
these criminal organizations pose such
a threat to our State and our country.
Back in 2005, Congress passed a bill
on meth. It was called the Combat
Methamphetamine Epidemic Act. It
regulated the over-the-counter sale of
certain drugs, like epinephrine, be-
cause of their use in the manufacture
of methamphetamines. This helped to
combat the ability of the meth pro-
ducers to manufacture cheap meth-
amphetamine from over-the-counter
medicines that were easy to get. It
dropped the price and reduced its avail-
ability. However, Mexican cartels have
now again supplanted these domestic
labs so that legislation is no longer ef-
fective because here we are laden with
these cheap, high quality, crystal meth
supplies from Mexico.
As the public learns more about the
dangers of opioids and works to wean
themselves off those drugs, meth-
amphetamine, if left unchecked, is
primed now to become the new drug of
choice, perpetuating the cycle of abuse.
We cannot let that happen.
As we begin to make progress again
on the opioid epidemic, which is the
worst drug crisis in the history of our
country—and remains so—we can’t
take our eye off the ball. What we are
doing is actually helping in the fight
against opioids. We need to keep it up.
We are actually making progress, fi-
nally. We have to keep the pressure on.
But my question is, What do we do
about the next wave coming? What do
we do about the methamphetamine
that is coming into my State and your
State?
First, we need to continue awareness
about the issue of addiction generally.
This is not about one drug or just
opioids or just meth or just cocaine. It
is about the overall addiction—treating
addiction like a disease, which it is;
providing better treatment so that peo-
ple can get back on their feet; pro-
viding longer term recovery. So raising
that awareness generally is important,
not just as to opioids but as to addic-
tion, which is really the issue.
Second, we have to do more on our
southwest borders to stop the flow of
this crystal meth coming in. It is not
the ultimate solution because there is
enough demand in America for this
drug. It will find its way in, but we can
stop some of it. We are beginning to do
that. At a minimum, we can raise the
price on the street, which is one of the
problems right now. As I said, it is in-
credibly inexpensive. As one law en-
forcement person told me, it is less ex-
pensive than marijuana in some cities
of America.
Next, we need to do more to support
Federal prevention programs that can
address this issue—prevention, edu-
cation, awareness. This is ultimately
the most effective way to stop this epi-
demic from growing. One tool to do
that is called the Drug-Free Commu-
nities Act. It has established more
than 2,000 coalitions now around the
country. Let’s continue to support
those coalitions.
Very little Federal money has gone
in compared to the private-sector
money, the State and local money, the
foundation money, but it leverages
some of that other money. We need to
continue to support these community
foundations.
Next, let’s start a new prevention
program focused on this meth chal-
lenge. One place we could find that
funding, by the way, is in the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery
Act. We authorized and then actually
appropriated $10 million for a national
prevention program. We allowed HSS
to set that up. They haven’t done it
yet. I think it is important that we do
it. I would take that $10 million and
multiply it manyfold by using it as le-
verage to go out to the private sector,
to encourage foundations, companies,
pharma companies, and others to help
in this effort. I believe there is an in-
terest in that. I know there is. Let’s do
a massive prevention program because
that may be, in the end, the most effec-
tive way to keep people from getting
into the funnel of addiction in the first
place.
Next, we need to continue to expand
and support these high intensity drug
trafficking areas. They really work. I
will tell you, in Ohio, when you have
Federal resources, combined with State
and local resources, when they are co-
ordinated together, focused on this
drug issue, they make a lot of sense.
They have stopped a lot of the meth
distribution, as I said, in Ohio. I talked
about what happened in Northeast
Ohio. There was the largest meth sei-
zure ever. That was through the HIDTA
Program.
Next, we need a more effective treat-
ment for meth. NIDA—the National In-
stitute on Drug Abuse—and the NIH—
the National Institutes of Health—are
working on answers. But we need new
medications so we can assist with qual-
ity treatment to help those suffering
from addiction get into recovery. This
is a major challenge.
I spoke to Scott Gottlieb today, who
is a former FDA Commissioner, about
this issue, and I have talked to others.
We need to do everything we can to
support efforts to try to come up with
medication that can assist with regard
to the treatment for these
psychostimulant drugs.
Finally, we have to be sure that the
communities have more flexibility to
use the Federal funding they are al-
ready getting through Cures, through
the State Opioid Response grants, to
address issues like meth. I am explor-
ing whether legislation is necessary to
provide that flexibility, but I believe a
lot of it could be provided through the
administration of these grants and
through the States.
I will continue to ensure that the
Federal Government is a better partner
for those working on the frontlines on
this drug epidemic. Opioids—yes, we
need to keep up the fight. We are fi-
nally making progress. After 8 years of
increases in opioid deaths, finally last
year, for the first time in 8 years, we
are seeing a reduction of those deaths—
the worst drug epidemic in the history
of our country. It is not a time for us
to pull back. It is time to focus on
what is working and do more of it. But,
also, we have these new challenges,
particularly crystal meth. We need to
do a better job of addressing that, as
we talked about today.
Working together, I believe we can
make a difference. I believe we can
turn the tide on addiction in this coun-
try.
Thank you.
I yield back.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.065 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2740 May 8, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that all postcloture
time on the Park nomination expire at
1:45 p.m., Thursday, May 9. I further
ask that if confirmed, the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING BURGERS’
SMOKEHOUSE
∑ Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, as a
member of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
it is my privilege to recognize a fam-
ily-owned small business that is dedi-
cated to its customers, employees, and
community. In honor of the U.S. Small
Business Administration’s National
Small Business Week, it is my pleasure
to name Burgers’ Smokehouse of Cali-
fornia, MO, as the Senate Small Busi-
ness of the Day.
Burgers’ Smokehouse began in 1927
with E.M. Burger, a man who decided
to use his mother’s recipe to start cur-
ing hams for himself. Though this was
a time with limited potential for a
meat business, Burger sold six hams in
his first year and then doubled to 12
hams in his second year. From there,
E.M. Burger started employing the
help of his family to grow his business
to its official launch in 1952 when they
opened their first ‘‘Ham House’’ in
California, MO. This opening would
lead them to become the first country
cured meat company in the United
States to receive Federal inspection
just 4 years later in 1956 which allowed
them to ship meat between State bor-
ders.
Today, Burgers’ Smokehouse is now
operated by the third and fourth gen-
eration of the Burger family and has
become one of the Nation’s leading pro-
vider of cured meats. Burgers’ Smoke-
house now employs over 200 people and
operates two locations, the original
‘‘Ham House’’ in California, and a
newly opened second facility in Spring-
field, MO. The company distributes
over 12 million pounds of products each
year and supplies restaurants such as
Bob Evans, Cracker Barrel, and Waffle
House. This success was not only due
to the quality of their product, but also
to the utilization of the latest tech-
nology. Burgers’ Smokehouse has been
recognized in several magazines and
newspapers for the cutting-edge inno-
vations used in their production and
food safety processes.
In addition to the excellence within
Burgers’ Smokehouse’s walls, the
Burger family is intentional about
being excellent to those outside of
their walls. Employees participate
yearly in the Moniteau County Relay
for Life. Burgers’ Smokehouse has
raised over $100,000 to help fight cancer
through this effort. In 2006, Burgers’
Smokehouse also sent care packages,
which included some of their sand-
wiches, to U.S. soldiers overseas.
Today, they still offer free shipping to
anyone who will place an order to a
military post. Aside from Burgers’
Smokehouse’s direct charity, the Burg-
er family also set up a foundation
under E.M. Burger’s name, the founder
of Burgers’ Smokehouse. This founda-
tion specializes in gifts to the arts and
education and frequently gives grants
to the Moniteau County school system.
Burgers’ Smokehouse embodies the
traits of a true family-owned business.
Armed only with his mother’s recipe,
E.M. Burger sold just six hams in his
first year. Ninety-two years later, the
third and fourth generations of the
Burger family operate his legacy sell-
ing over 600,000 hams a year to people
all over the country. As a result of the
hard work this family and their em-
ployees have put in, Burgers’ Smoke-
house has been the recipient of numer-
ous awards and visited by President Ei-
senhower, Hank Williams, Jr., and
Johnny Carson. It is my distinct pleas-
ure to honor Burgers’ Smokehouse as
the Senate Small Business of the Day.
You make Missouri proud, and I look
forward to watching your continued
growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his sec-
retaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
13338 OF MAY 11, 2004, WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE BLOCKING OF
PROPERTY OF CERTAIN PER-
SONS AND PROHIBITION OF EX-
PORTATION AND RE-EXPOR-
TATION OF CERTAIN GOODS TO
SYRIA—PM 12
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
actions of the Government of Syria de-
clared in Executive Order 13338 of May
11, 2004—as modified in scope and relied
upon for additional steps taken in Ex-
ecutive Order 13399 of April 25, 2006, Ex-
ecutive Order 13460 of February 13, 2008,
Executive Order 13572 of April 29, 2011,
Executive Order 13573 of May 18, 2011,
Executive Order 13582 of August 17,
2011, Executive Order 13606 of April 22,
2012, and Executive Order 13608 of May
1, 2012—is to continue in effect beyond
May 11, 2019.
The regime’s brutal war on the Syr-
ian people, who have been calling for
freedom and a representative govern-
ment, not only endangers the Syrian
people themselves, but also generates
instability throughout the region. The
Syrian regime’s actions and policies,
including pursuing and using chemical
weapons, supporting terrorist organiza-
tions, and obstructing the Lebanese
government’s ability to function effec-
tively continue to foster the rise of ex-
tremism and sectarianism and pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security, foreign policy,
and economy of the United States. For
these reasons, I have determined that
it is necessary to continue in effect the
national emergency declared with re-
spect to this threat and to maintain in
force the sanctions to address this na-
tional emergency.
In addition, the United States con-
demns the Assad regime’s use of brutal
violence and human rights abuses and
calls on the Assad regime to stop its
violent war, uphold existing ceasefires,
enable the delivery of humanitarian as-
sistance, and negotiate a political tran-
sition in Syria that will forge a cred-
ible path to a future of greater free-
dom, democracy, opportunity, and jus-
tice. The United States will consider
changes in the composition, policies,
and actions of the Government of Syria
in determining whether to continue or
terminate this national emergency in
the future.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.063 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2741
May 8, 2019
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
13667 OF MAY 12, 2014, WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE CENTRAL AFRI-
CAN REPUBLIC—PM 13
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13667 of May 12, 2014, with respect
to the Central African Republic is to
continue in effect beyond May 12, 2019.
The situation in and in relation to
the Central African Republic, which
has been marked by a breakdown of
law and order, intersectarian tension,
widespread violence and atrocities, and
the pervasive, often forced recruitment
and use of child soldiers, threatens the
peace, security, or stability of the Cen-
tral African Republic and the neigh-
boring states, and continues to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. Therefore, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13667 with re-
spect to the Central African Republic.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
f
NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO DES-
IGNATE BRAZIL AS A MAJOR
NON-NATO ALLY—PM 14
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 517 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 2321k), I am pro-
viding notice of my intent to designate
Brazil as a Major Non-NATO Ally.
I am making this designation in rec-
ognition of the Government of Brazil’s
recent commitments to increase de-
fense cooperation with the United
States, and in recognition of our own
national interest in deepening our de-
fense coordination with Brazil.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE
ISSUANCE OF AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER WITH RESPECT TO IRAN
THAT TAKES ADDITIONAL STEPS
WITH RESPECT TO THE NA-
TIONAL EMERGENCY DECLARED
IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 12957 OF
MARCH 15, 1995—PM 15
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), I hereby report
that I haveissued an Executive Order
(the ‘‘order’’) with respect to Iran that
takes additional steps with respect to
the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995,
and to supplement the authorities pro-
vided in the Iran Freedom and Counter-
Proliferation Act of 2012 (subtitle D of
title XII of Public Law 112–239).
The order takes steps to deny Iran
revenue, including revenue derived
from the export of products from Iran’s
iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sec-
tors, that may be used to provide fund-
ing and support for the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, terrorist
groups and networks, campaigns of re-
gional aggression, and military expan-
sion.
The order blocks the property and in-
terests in property of persons deter-
mined by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State:
∑ to be operating in the iron, steel,
aluminum, or copper sector of Iran, or
to be a person that owns, controls, or
operates an entity that is part of the
iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector
of Iran;
∑ to have knowingly engaged, on or
after the date of the order, in a signifi-
cant transaction for the sale, supply,
or transfer to Iran of significant goods
or services used in connection with the
iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sec-
tors of Iran;
∑ to have knowingly engaged, on or
after the date of the order, in a signifi-
cant transaction for the purchase, ac-
quisition, sale, transport, or marketing
of iron, iron products, aluminum, alu-
minum products, steel, steel products,
copper, or copper products from Iran;
∑ to have materially assisted, spon-
sored, or provided financial, material,
or technological support for, or goods
or services in support of, any person
whose property and interests in prop-
erty are blocked pursuant to the order;
or
∑ to be owned or controlled by, or to
have acted or purported to act for or on
behalf of, directly or indirectly, any
person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to the
order.
The order also authorizes the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, to impose
correspondent and payable-through ac-
count-related sanctions on a foreign fi-
nancial institution upon determining
the foreign financial institution has,
on or after the date of the order, know-
ingly conducted or facilitated a signifi-
cant financial transaction:
∑ for the sale, supply, or transfer to
Iran of significant goods or services
used in connection with the iron, steel,
aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
∑ for the purchase, acquisition, sale,
transport, or marketing of iron, iron
products, aluminum, aluminum prod-
ucts, steel, steel products, copper, or
copper products from Iran; or
∑ for or on behalf of any persons
whose property and interests in prop-
erty are blocked pursuant to the order.
I have delegated to the Secretary of
the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the authority to
take such actions, including adopting
rules and regulations, to employ all
powers granted to the President by
IEEPA as may be necessary to imple-
ment the order.
I am enclosing a copy of the order I
have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 8, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:16 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1704. An act to foster commercial re-
lations with foreign countries and support
United States economic and business inter-
ests abroad in the conduct of foreign policy,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 2002. An act to foster security in Tai-
wan, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1704. An act to foster commercial re-
lations with foreign countries and support
United States economic and business inter-
ests abroad in the conduct of foreign policy,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
H.R. 2002. An act to foster security in Tai-
wan, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1237. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Cyflumetofen; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9990–60–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.013 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2742 May 8, 2019
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–1238. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Pesticides; Technical Amendment to
Data Requirements for Antimicrobial Pes-
ticides’’ (FRL No. 9990–60–OCSPP) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 3,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–1239. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to an
appropriation request in emergency funding
to respond to the humanitarian and security
crisis at the United State southern border;
to the Committee on Appropriations.
EC–1240. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Sustainment),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the ongoing use of open burn pits
and the feasibility of phasing out the use of
open burn pits by using technology inciner-
ators; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1241. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a notice of additional time required to
implement a small business strategy for the
Department of Defense; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1242. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress:
Impacts from Relocating Steam Turbine
Production’’; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1243. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to
Sudan that was declared in Executive Order
13067 of November 3, 1997; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–1244. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of items not det-
rimental to the U.S. space launch industry;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–1245. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin; Non-
attainment New Source Review Require-
ments for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone Standard’’
(FRL No. 9993–25–Region 5) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1246. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Colorado;
Revisions to Regulation Number 3’’ (FRL No.
9992–97–Region 8) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1247. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Maryland;
Reasonably Available Control Technology
for Cement Kilns, Revisions to Portland Ce-
ment Manufacturing Plant and Natural Gas
Compression Station Regulations, and Re-
moval of Nitrogen Oxides Reduction and
Trading Programs Replaced by Other Pro-
grams and Regulations; Correction’’ (FRL
No. 9993–31–Region 3) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1248. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Regulatory Amendments Addressing
Reasonably Available Control Technology
Requirements under the 1997 and 2008 8-hour
Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Stand-
ards’’ (FRL No. 9993–36–Region 3) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 3,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–1249. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Environmental Protection Agency
Acquisition Regulation (EPAAR) Clause Up-
date for Submission of Invoices’’ (FRL No.
9992–99–OMS) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–1250. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Partial Deletion of the
Beckman Instruments Superfund Site’’ (FRL
No. 9993–34–Region 9) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1251. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel of the National Science
Foundation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Conservation of
Antarctic Animals and Plants’’ (RIN3145–
AA59) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 6, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–1252. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, Exec-
utive Office of the President, transmitting
proposed legislation relative to the National
Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year
2020; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–1253. A communication from the Chief
of the Regulatory Coordination Division,
Citizenship and Immigration Services, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Exercise of Time-Limited Authority
to Increase the Fiscal Year 2019 Numerical
Limitation for the H–2B Temporary Non-
agricultural Worker Program’’ (RIN1615–
AC38) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SANDERS, and
Ms. WARREN):
S. 1357. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish direct care reg-
istered nurse-to-patient staffing ratio re-
quirements in hospitals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 1358. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to require that any question-
naire used in determining the decennial cen-
sus of population shall contain an option for
respondents to indicate citizenship status; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. KAINE, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 1359. A bill to amend the Public Utility
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to establish a
market-oriented standard for clean electric
energy generation, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD):
S. 1360. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that the final pay and
certificate of discharge or release for a re-
serve member of the Armed Forces is ready
upon discharge or release of that member
from active status; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, and Mr. KING):
S. 1361. A bill to amend the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 respecting the scoring of
preventive health savings; to the Committee
on the Budget.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 1362. A bill to make demonstration
grants to eligible local educational agencies
or consortia of eligible local educational
agencies for the purpose of increasing the
numbers of school nurses in public elemen-
tary schools and secondary schools; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. PORTMAN, and Ms.
HARRIS):
S. 1363. A bill to authorize an AI Center of
Excellence within the General Services Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, and Mr. JONES):
S. 1364. A bill to establish an Early Federal
Pell Grant Commitment Program; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. UDALL, and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 1365. A bill to provide emergency assist-
ance to States, territories, Tribal nations,
and local areas affected by the opioid epi-
demic and to make financial assistance
available to States, territories, Tribal na-
tions, local areas, and public or private non-
profit entities to provide for the develop-
ment, organization, coordination, and oper-
ation of more effective and cost efficient sys-
tems for the delivery of essential services to
individuals with substance use disorder and
their families; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 1366. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to require the Attorney General
to make procurement quotas for opioid anal-
gesics publicly available, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.020 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2743
May 8, 2019
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 1367. A bill to designate Union Station
in Washington, DC, as ‘‘Harry S. Truman
Union Station’’; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. BURR:
S. 1368. A bill to provide for the recogni-
tion of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 1369. A bill to impose sanctions on indi-
viduals who are complicit in human rights
abuses committed against nationals of Viet-
nam or their family members, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. KING, Mr. ISAKSON, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BURR, Mr. TESTER,
Mr. DAINES, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. COR-
NYN, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. BROWN, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, Mr. CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. PETERS, and Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 1370. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to treat certain military
survivor benefits as earned income for pur-
poses of the kiddie tax; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. 1371. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
conduct a study on the effects of oxybenzone
and octinoxate on the environment and pub-
lic health, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CARPER, Mr. TILLIS, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. BURR, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. CANTWELL,
and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 1372. A bill to encourage Federal agen-
cies to expeditiously enter into or amend co-
operative agreements with States for re-
moval and remedial actions to address PFAS
contamination in drinking, surface, and
ground water and land surface and sub-
surface strata, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 1373. A bill to require the United States
Postal Service to enter into an agreement
with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to
train employees of the Postal Service to
identify illicit packages; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 1374. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to eliminate the waiting
periods for disability insurance benefits and
Medicare coverage for individuals with meta-
static breast cancer, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 1375. A bill to require the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs to develop standards for a
‘‘Reef Safe’’ label for sunscreen; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 1376. A bill to amend parts B and E of
title IV of the Social Security Act to elimi-
nate barriers to providing child welfare serv-
ices for children and youth in need, to pro-
vide additional resources to implement pro-
grammatic changes necessary to meet the
requirements of the Family First Prevention
Services Act, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. HARRIS:
S. 1377. A bill to incentivize States and lo-
calities to improve access to justice, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr.
BARRASSO, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. LEE, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. ENZI,
Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. PAUL):
S. 1378. A bill to repeal the multi-State
plan program; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. ALEXANDER, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 1379. A bill to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 1380. A bill to amend the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure to remind prosecutors
of their obligations under Supreme Court
case law; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
ERNST, and Mr. JOHNSON):
S. Res. 194. A resolution designating July
30, 2019, as ‘‘National Whistleblower Appre-
ciation Day’’; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. SASSE, and
Mr. INHOFE):
S. Res. 195. A resolution opposing the lift-
ing of sanctions imposed with respect to Iran
without addressing Iran’s nuclear program,
ballistic missile development, support for
terrorism, and other destabilizing activities;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. Res. 196. A resolution recognizing the
American Peanut Shellers Association for a
century of effective leadership in the peanut
industry and the beneficial work of the pea-
nut industry in the United States and the
State of Georgia; considered and agreed to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. WYDEN,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
ROSEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. ERNST, Mr. COONS,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. CASEY, Mr. HOEVEN,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. KAINE, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. KING, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
JONES, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. Res. 197. A resolution recognizing the
roles and contributions of the teachers of the
United States in building and enhancing the
civic, cultural, and economic well-being of
the United States; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 27, a bill to amend the
Surface Mining Control and Reclama-
tion Act of 1977 to transfer certain
funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers
of America Pension Plan, and for other
purposes.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY), the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT) and the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE)
were added as cosponsors of S. 151, a
bill to deter criminal robocall viola-
tions and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934, and for other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 172, a bill to delay the re-
imposition of the annual fee on health
insurance providers until after 2021.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
178, a bill to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Mus-
lims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities in-
side and outside China.
S. 289
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 289, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
support rural residency training fund-
ing that is equitable for all States, and
for other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 500, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to establish,
fund, and provide for the use of
amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 566
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.016 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2744 May 8, 2019
of S. 566, a bill to amend the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 to expand ac-
cess to capital for rural-area small
businesses, and for other purposes.
S. 679
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. MCSALLY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 679, a bill to exempt from
the calculation of monthly income cer-
tain benefit paid by the Department of
Veterans Affairs and the Department
of Defense.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 684, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to repeal the excise tax on high-
cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 743, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the soldiers of the
5307th Composite Unit (Provisional),
commonly known as ‘‘Merrill’s Ma-
rauders’’, in recognition of their brav-
ery and outstanding service in the jun-
gles of Burma during World War II.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 803, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to restore in-
centives for investments in qualified
improvement property.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator
from Iowa (Ms. ERNST), the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) and
the Senator from Missouri (Mr.
HAWLEY) were added as cosponsors of S.
846, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to limit certain rolling
stock procurements, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 851, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Labor to issue an occupa-
tional safety and health standard that
requires covered employers within the
health care and social service indus-
tries to develop and implement a com-
prehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes.
S. 852
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the names of the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) and the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO) were added as cosponsors of S.
852, a bill to provide for the consider-
ation of a definition of anti-Semitism
for the enforcement of Federal anti-
discrimination laws concerning edu-
cation programs or activities.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 901, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to support indi-
viduals with younger onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
S. 951
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 951, a bill to promote registered
apprenticeships, including registered
apprenticeships within in-demand in-
dustry sectors, through the support of
workforce intermediaries, and for other
purposes.
S. 997
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 997, a bill to recognize and
honor the service of individuals who
served in the United States Cadet
Nurse Corps during World War II, and
for other purposes.
S. 998
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 998, a bill to amend the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to expand support
for police officer family services, stress
reduction, and suicide prevention, and
for other purposes.
S. 1034
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1034, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to increase the
maximum age for children eligible for
medical care under the CHAMPVA pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 1046
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1046, a bill to establish the Office
of Internet Connectivity and Growth,
and for other purposes.
S. 1195
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1195, a bill to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
clarify presumption relating to the ex-
posure of certain veterans who served
in the vicinity of the Republic of Viet-
nam, and for other purposes.
S. 1201
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1201, a bill to amend the
fossil energy research and development
provisions of the Energy Policy Act of
2005 to enhance fossil fuel technology,
and for other purposes.
S. 1208
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1208, a bill to
amend the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 with respect to
payments to certain public safety offi-
cers who have become permanently and
totally disabled as a result of personal
injuries sustained in the line of duty,
and for other purposes.
S. 1231
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1231, a bill to reau-
thorize the Bulletproof Vest Partner-
ship Grant Program.
S. 1246
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1246, a bill to extend the protections of
the Fair Housing Act to persons suf-
fering discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation or gender identity,
and for other purposes.
S. 1306
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1306, a bill to amend the National
Labor Relations Act, the Labor Man-
agement Relations Act, 1947, and the
Labor-Management Reporting and Dis-
closure Act of 1959, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1335
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Texas (Mr. COR-
NYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1335, a bill to eliminate the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection.
S. 1337
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1337, a bill to amend title
18, United States Code, to establish an
Office of Correctional Education, and
for other purposes.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 98, a resolution estab-
lishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 120, a resolution op-
posing efforts to delegitimize the State
of Israel and the Global Boycott, Di-
vestment, and Sanctions Movement
targeting Israel.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.025 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2745
May 8, 2019
S. RES. 184
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 184, a
resolution condemning the Easter Sun-
day terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka, of-
fering sincere condolences to the vic-
tims, to their families and friends, and
to the people and nation of Sri Lanka,
and expressing solidarity and support
for Sri Lanka.
S. RES. 188
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 188, a resolution encouraging a
swift transfer of power by the military
to a civilian-led political authority in
the Republic of the Sudan, and for
other purposes.
S. RES. 189
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Alas-
ka (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 189, a resolution
condemning all forms of antisemitism.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 1359. A bill to amend the Public
Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
to establish a market-oriented stand-
ard for clean electric energy genera-
tion, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, climate
change is the existential challenge of
our time. I know this because this is
what the science says. I know this be-
cause I have seen the impacts of cli-
mate change in my State. I know this
because it is what our children who
will live with the consequences of a
changing climate tell us. In a recent
poll, half of Americans age 18 to 29 de-
scribe climate change as a ‘‘crisis that
demands urgent action.’’
Today I rise to discuss how the clean
energy revolution can be the way we
fight climate change and the way we
create jobs and opportunity. Col-
leagues, in this global challenge, the
United States can lead or we can fol-
low. I want us to lead.
This morning, as a Senator from an
agricultural and high-tech State from
the Upper Midwest, I have joined with
Representative BEN RAY LUJÁN, who
represents the great State of New Mex-
ico, a State with significant oil and gas
resources, to introduce the Clean En-
ergy Standard Act of 2019. Our legisla-
tion would dramatically expand clean
electricity and put the United States
on a path to net zero greenhouse gas
emissions from the electric sector by
the middle of the century, including a
nearly 80-percent reduction in emis-
sions by 2035 compared to 2005.
Not so long ago, the United States
was a global leader in tackling climate
change. President Obama took strong
action to remove carbon emissions
from cars. He advanced the Clean
Power Plan to significantly reduce
emissions in the electric sector, and he
provided the essential leadership that
led to adoption of the international
Paris climate agreement, which com-
mits the countries of the world to col-
lectively hold global warming to well
below 2 degrees Celsius.
Unfortunately, our current President
has moved unilaterally to undo these
actions, as if we can bury our heads in
the sand and ignore the reality that a
warming climate threatens our health,
it threatens our financial stability, and
it threatens our very existence. I re-
gret to say it, but for the most part,
the Republican-led Congress has gone
along with President Trump as he has
ceded U.S. leadership on climate and
clean energy to our competitors.
The result of this? Our global com-
petitors are happy to dominate in this
field. This is, I think, quite interesting.
China has more than twice as much
wind power as the United States, and
in 2018, China beat the United States
on new wind installations by more
than 3 to 1. Half of all new solar instal-
lations in the world last year happened
in China. Here at home, President
Trump’s policies caused the solar en-
ergy industry to shed 20,000 jobs as the
United States lags in fourth place on
installed solar energy.
Fortunately, while Washington wav-
ers, there is a groundswell of support
for the clean energy revolution at the
local level. When President Trump
moved against the Paris climate agree-
ment, Americans responded with the
‘‘We Are Still In’’ campaign. Churches,
Tribes, mayors, county executives, and
campus leaders led the way. States fol-
lowed and took action. Last week, the
U.S. House of Representatives pledged
and passed legislation to renew our
commitment to the Paris Agreement.
There are now over 100 cities around
the country which have committed to
clean or renewable energy. Four States
and the District of Columbia have poli-
cies that will get them to net zero
emissions by mid-century. Several
more are moving in that direction. In
my home State, Minnesota’s Governor,
Tim Walz, has a plan for 100 percent
carbon-free electricity by 2050. That
bill passed the Minnesota House by a
74-to-59 vote. Minnesota Senate, it is
now your turn. To my colleagues in the
Senate, it is our turn as well.
I believe the best ideas come from
people working at the local level to
solve problems, and I also think the
best ideas that can get done are those
that bring people together across re-
gional differences, political ideology,
and their own life experiences. That is
how our bill, the Clean Energy Stand-
ard Act of 2019, came to be. It builds on
what is already working at the local
level.
As a clean energy standard, it has a
bipartisan history. Back when Repub-
licans and Democrats were working to-
gether on bills to reduce carbon pollu-
tion—all the way back in 2009 through
2012—clean energy standard bills like
this one had both Democratic and Re-
publican cosponsors. This bill today is
supported by labor groups, by environ-
mental groups, and by utilities—an un-
likely but strong coalition in these
days of divisive politics.
The basics of this plan are simple.
First, let’s start where electric utili-
ties are and then improve from there.
We know many electric utilities are
shifting to renewables and clean energy
because it is the most cost-competitive
thing for them to do and because it is
what their customers want, but we also
know that each utility is going to start
from a different place in terms of the
amount of clean energy it already sells.
Let’s start there. Our bill recognizes
these regional differences and then
asks each utility to improve from
where they are. One size does not fit
all. On the one hand, States like Idaho
and Washington are blessed with abun-
dant hydropower and already produce
over 80 percent of their electricity
from carbon-free sources. On the other
hand, four of our united States get less
than 10 percent of their electricity
from carbon-free generation. Our bill
asks each utility to start from where
they are and improve from there.
Utilities that start with a low
amount of clean energy are asked to
grow quickly, but they slow down as
they reach very high levels of net zero
emission electricity. The plan recog-
nizes also that rural co-ops and munic-
ipal utilities face unique challenges,
and we accommodate that.
The second thing about this plan is
this: Let’s be ambitious. Science tells
us that we need to achieve net zero
greenhouse gas emissions by the second
half of this century if we are to avoid
the worst consequences of climate
change. We desperately need some can-
do American spirit and ingenuity here,
not nay-saying.
This bill is ambitious. It would result
in expected electric sector emission re-
ductions of nearly 80 percent by 2035
compared to 2005 benchmarks. If the
cost curve bends faster and the clean
energy transition turns out to be even
cheaper, reductions will happen even
faster.
Third, let’s be open to all solutions
for a clean energy future. Addressing
the challenges of climate change isn’t
easy, and there is no one solution. We
need to be open to all ideas and all ap-
proaches so long as they actually re-
duce carbon emissions. If we want an
electric system that is not only zero
emissions but also reliable, resilient,
and affordable, we can’t afford to rule
out any technologies in advance.
None of us knows in 2019 what is
going to be the best way to run a reli-
able, affordable net zero emissions
electric system in 2050. What we do
know is that we need to create strong
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.027 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2746 May 8, 2019
clean energy incentives that the elec-
tricity market will understand and re-
spond to and then allow all tech-
nologies to compete. That is what this
bill does.
Here is what that might look like.
Here is what it could look like. Most
scientific models say that in a net zero
emission electric grid, renewable
sources like wind and solar will deliver
the bulk of the electricity we need, but
we also know that a reliable grid needs
energy sources that can be turned up or
down when we need them. This means
resilient, reliable electric grids that
will be built on a combination of hy-
dropower, nuclear power, long-term en-
ergy storage, and fossil fuels, if they
are deployed with carbon capture.
What will be the proportion of these
energy sources in 2050? We can’t know
that today, but what we do know,
based on one leading model, is an ap-
proach like the one in our bill that is
open to all clean sources of electricity
will be up to trillions of dollars cheaper
than an approach that relies on
handpicking technological winners and
losers. Colleagues, clean, reliable, and
affordable energy is important to my
constituents in Minnesota, and I bet it
is important to your constituents as
well.
Fighting climate change is a big
challenge that requires a lot of good
ideas. The Clean Energy Standard Act
of 2019, which I introduced today, will
get the electric power sector to net
zero carbon emissions, but it doesn’t do
everything we need to do to fight cli-
mate change.
This bill is only one of the steps that
we need to take to move our country
and our world to net zero greenhouse
gas emissions in a way that is fair and
just and economical, but it is an impor-
tant piece.
In the electric sector, we already
know a lot about how to make progress
to lower carbon emissions. Thanks to
innovation and good policies at the
State level, emissions from electricity
production have declined substantially
just in the last decade.
Now we need to keep that progress
going and going faster. We need to con-
tinue and accelerate progress and ex-
pand the use of clean electricity into
other sectors.
Think about this. A clean electric
grid can provide the energy to reduce
carbon emissions in transportation, in
buildings, and in other parts of our
economy. Electric vehicles can con-
tribute to reduce carbon emissions
when we have a clean energy electric
sector. Office buildings and homes can
contribute to reduce carbon emissions
when we have a clean electric sector.
That is what progress can look like.
I am grateful that a few of my fellow
Republicans in Congress are moving be-
yond the President’s head-in-the-sand
denial of climate change. These col-
leagues—and I hope more of them—are
looking for ways to spur innovation in
clean energy by providing new funding
for clean energy research.
This is all well and good, but Federal
funding for clean energy research will
not work all on its own. What drives
adoption and dispersion of innovation
is a strong market signal that low car-
bon sources of electricity will be val-
ued by the market, and that will be
happening predictably as big utilities
make important capital investments.
Research money provides a really im-
portant push to get innovation started
in the lab, but for innovation to move
from technology to be adopted at a
scale and pace that we need, we must
be sending a strong, clear signal from
the market that low-carbon sources of
electricity are going to be valued.
The Clean Energy Standard Act of
2019 does this. It is a crucial com-
plement to Manhattan Project efforts
to spur technology innovation. These
two are complements but not alter-
natives. Research without market in-
centives will not get us where we need
to go.
Colleagues, climate change is real,
and we need bold action to fight it. If
we do—when we do—the United States
can be the clean energy leader. This
will be good for jobs. It will be good for
our health, and it will be necessary for
the survival of our planet.
We can lead or we can follow. I be-
lieve we need to lead. This is what our
bill seeks to do by putting the United
States in the forefront for reaching net
zero carbon emissions in the electric
sector. This is an environmental imper-
ative. It is an economic imperative,
and it is a jobs imperative. I don’t care
whether you come from a State that
gets 80 percent of its power from clean
energy or whether you get 10 percent.
This is why our plan has the endorse-
ment of the Union of Concerned Sci-
entists, the Clean Air Task Force, and
Fresh Energy in Minnesota. Our plan is
supported by the Utility Workers of
America and United Steelworkers.
Bills that are acceptable to labor, the
environmental movement, and for-
ward-thinking utilities are rare. Yet
this is what we really need if we are
going to build a winning coalition to
address climate change.
We Democrats understand that the
climate crisis requires bold action, and
we understand that we need many
ideas and many solutions. I offer one
today.
I challenge—I urge—my Republican
colleagues to do the same and to join
us. Join with us and help us find solu-
tions to a crisis that will shape irrev-
ocably the world our children and our
grandchildren will be living in.
Science tells us that the challenge is
great, but it also shows us solutions
that can cut net carbon emissions to
zero, lower energy costs, and expand
jobs and opportunity. That is the fu-
ture I want for my children and my
grandchildren yet to be born. Let’s get
to work. We don’t have any time to
waste.
I thank Representative LUJÁN for
partnering with me on this bill. I
thank my colleagues Senators HEIN-
RICH, KAINE, WHITEHOUSE, and SCHATZ
for cosponsoring this legislation. I also
thank Senator Jeff Bingaman of New
Mexico, longtime chair of the Senate
Energy Committee, who first worked in
a bipartisan way on a clean energy
standard bill that was a template for
our effort today.
I thank also the scientists and econo-
mists who have provided thoughtful
analysis as we developed this bill—
most prominently, Resources for the
Future and President Obama’s Sec-
retary of Energy, Ernie Moniz. I am
grateful for their support and eager to
begin the push to get our policies
moved forward.
I yield the floor.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 194—DESIG-
NATING JULY 30, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL WHISTLEBLOWER AP-
PRECIATION DAY’’
Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARPER, Ms. ERNST,
and Mr. JOHNSON) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 194
Whereas, in 1777, before the passage of the
Bill of Rights, 10 sailors and Marines blew
the whistle on fraud and misconduct that
was harmful to the United States;
Whereas the Founding Fathers unani-
mously supported the whistleblowers in
words and deeds, including by releasing gov-
ernment records and providing monetary as-
sistance for the reasonable legal expenses
necessary to prevent retaliation against the
whistleblowers;
Whereas, on July 30, 1778, in demonstration
of their full support for whistleblowers, the
members of the Continental Congress unani-
mously passed the first whistleblower legis-
lation in the United States that read: ‘‘Re-
solved, That it is the duty of all persons in
the service of the United States, as well as
all other the inhabitants thereof, to give the
earliest information to Congress or other
proper authority of any misconduct, frauds
or misdemeanors committed by any officers
or persons in the service of these states,
which may come to their knowledge’’ (legis-
lation of July 30, 1778, reprinted in Journals
of the Continental Congress, 1774–1789, ed.
Worthington C. Ford et al. (Washington, DC,
1904–37), 11:732);
Whereas whistleblowers risk their careers,
jobs, and reputations by reporting waste,
fraud, and abuse to the proper authorities;
Whereas, in providing the proper authori-
ties with lawful disclosures, whistleblowers
save the taxpayers of the United States bil-
lions of dollars each year and serve the pub-
lic interest by ensuring that the United
States remains an ethical and safe place; and
Whereas it is the public policy of the
United States to encourage, in accordance
with Federal law (including the Constitution
of the United States, rules, and regulations)
and consistent with the protection of classi-
fied information (including sources and
methods of detection of classified informa-
tion), honest and good faith reporting of mis-
conduct, fraud, misdemeanors, and other
crimes to the appropriate authority at the
earliest time possible: Now, therefore, be it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.021 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2747
May 8, 2019
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates July 30, 2019, as ‘‘National
Whistleblower Appreciation Day’’; and
(2) ensures that the Federal Government
implements the intent of the Founding Fa-
thers, as reflected in the legislation passed
on July 30, 1778 (relating to whistleblowers),
by encouraging each executive agency to
recognize National Whistleblower Apprecia-
tion Day by—
(A) informing employees, contractors
working on behalf of the taxpayers of the
United States, and members of the public
about the legal right of a United States cit-
izen to ‘‘blow the whistle’’ to the appropriate
authority by honest and good faith reporting
of misconduct, fraud, misdemeanors, or
other crimes; and
(B) acknowledging the contributions of
whistleblowers to combating waste, fraud,
abuse, and violations of laws and regulations
of the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 195—OPPOS-
ING THE LIFTING OF SANCTIONS
IMPOSED WITH RESPECT TO
IRAN WITHOUT ADDRESSING
IRAN’S NUCLEAR PROGRAM,
BALLISTIC MISSILE DEVELOP-
MENT, SUPPORT FOR TER-
RORISM, AND OTHER DESTA-
BILIZING ACTIVITIES
Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. SASSE, and Mr. INHOFE)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 195
Whereas the Joint Comprehensive Plan of
Action (JCPOA), an agreement that was fi-
nalized by the administration of President
Obama and the respective governments of
the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the
People’s Republic of China, and the Russian
Federation (P5+1) in July 2015, provided Iran
permanent sanctions relief and access to
more than $100,000,000,000 in return for tem-
porary restrictive measures on Iran’s nuclear
program;
Whereas, under the JCPOA, restrictions on
the number and types of centrifuges that
Iran may manufacture, the number and
types of enrichment facilities that Iran may
construct, and the amount and level of en-
riched uranium and heavy water that Iran
may stockpile, will expire;
Whereas United Nations Security Council
Resolution (UNSCR) 2231, unanimously
adopted on July 20, 2015, contained an 8-year
nonbinding restriction on Iranian nuclear-
capable ballistic missile activities and a 5-
year ban on conventional arms transfers to
Iran;
Whereas neither the JCPOA nor UNSCR
2231 adequately addressed the threat ema-
nating from Iran’s ballistic missile program
or support for terrorism, and the sunset pro-
visions applied to prohibitions in UNSCR
2231 inadvertently legitimized that program
and support;
Whereas, based on the shortcomings of the
JCPOA and UNSCR 2231, bipartisan majori-
ties in both the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives opposed the JCPOA and the
sanctions relief for Iran contained in the
agreement;
Whereas the sanctions relief contained in
the JCPOA provided resources necessary for
Iran to continue developing ballistic missiles
and supporting terrorism;
Whereas the administration of President
Trump has designated Iran’s Islamic Revolu-
tionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist
organization under section 219(a) of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1189(a)) and a Specially Designated Global
Terrorist group under Executive Order 13224
(50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking
property and prohibiting transactions with
persons who commit, threaten to commit, or
support terrorism);
Whereas, on May 21, 2018, Secretary of
State Pompeo outlined steps that the Ira-
nian government must take to normalize re-
lations with the United States, to include—
(1) providing the International Atomic En-
ergy Agency (IAEA) a full account of the
prior military dimensions of its nuclear pro-
gram and permanently and verifiably aban-
doning such work;
(2) ceasing all enrichment and vowing
never to pursue plutonium reprocessing;
(3) providing the IAEA with access to all
sites throughout the entire country;
(4) ending its development and prolifera-
tion of ballistic missiles;
(5) releasing all United States citizens cur-
rently held hostage, as well as citizens of
United States partners and allies;
(6) ending support for terrorist groups, in-
cluding Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Pales-
tinian Islamic Jihad;
(7) respecting the sovereignty of Iraq by
demobilizing Iranian-controlled Shia mili-
tias in the country;
(8) ending its military support for the
Houthi militia in Yemen;
(9) withdrawing all forces under Iranian
command in Syria;
(10) ending support for the Taliban in Af-
ghanistan and for senior al Qaeda leaders
around the region;
(11) ending the IRGC’s support for terror-
ists and militant partners around the world;
and
(12) halting its threatening behavior
against its neighbors;
Whereas President Trump announced the
withdrawal of the United States from the
JCPOA on May 8, 2018, and, since then, has
gradually reimposed sanctions that were sus-
pended by the Obama administration under
the JCPOA;
Whereas the JCPOA defined the sanctions
that the Obama administration suspended
under the JCPOA as ‘‘nuclear-related’’, but
‘‘nuclear-related’’ is not a term recognized
under existing statutory sanctions related to
Iran;
Whereas the Obama administration agreed
to define the most significant bilateral sanc-
tions imposed by the United States on Iran
as ‘‘nuclear-related’’, waive the application
of those sanctions under the JCPOA, and
commit the executive branch to attempt to
work with Congress and State and local gov-
ernments in the United States to repeal the
provisions of law providing for those sanc-
tions upon the expiration of the JCPOA;
Whereas, pursuant to the terms of the
JCPOA, sanctions were lifted on Iranian fi-
nancial institutions, cargo vessels, aircraft,
and charities, which were not linked to
Iran’s nuclear program but were sanctioned
for illicit conduct;
Whereas, pursuant to section 401(a) of the
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Account-
ability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C.
8551(a)), in order to terminate sanctions
against the Central Bank of Iran and other
financial institutions of Iran, the President
is required to certify that ‘‘the Government
of Iran has ceased providing support for acts
of international terrorism and no longer sat-
isfies the requirements for designation as a
state sponsor of terrorism’’, and that ‘‘Iran
has ceased the pursuit, acquisition, and de-
velopment of, and verifiably dismantled its,
nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons
and ballistic missiles and ballistic missile
launch technology’’;
Whereas, pursuant to section 8 of the Iran
Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–172; 50
U.S.C. 1701 note), in order to terminate sanc-
tions imposed with respect to the energy sec-
tor of Iran, the President is required to cer-
tify ‘‘that Iran—
‘‘(1) has ceased its efforts to design, de-
velop, manufacture, or acquire—
‘‘(A) a nuclear explosive device or related
materials and technology;
‘‘(B) chemical and biological weapons;
and
‘‘(C) ballistic missiles and ballistic mis-
sile launch technology;
‘‘(2) has been removed from the list of
countries the governments of which have
been determined . . . to have repeatedly pro-
vided support for acts of international ter-
rorism; and
‘‘(3) poses no significant threat to United
States national security, interests, or al-
lies.’’; and
Whereas the concept of ‘‘nuclear-related’’
sanctions does not exist in statute and exist-
ing statutes likely require a treaty to termi-
nate such sanctions: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms that it is the policy of the
United States not to allow Iran to develop or
otherwise acquire a nuclear weapons capa-
bility;
(2) resolves that the lifting or termination
of sanctions with respect to Iran must take
place only as provided for under section
401(a) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions,
Accountability, and Divestment Act (22
U.S.C. 8551(a)) and section 8 of the Iran Sanc-
tions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–172; 50
U.S.C. 1701 note); and
(3) rejects the reapplication of sanctions
relief provided for in the Joint Comprehen-
sive Plan of Action.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 196—RECOG-
NIZING THE AMERICAN PEANUT
SHELLERS ASSOCIATION FOR A
CENTURY OF EFFECTIVE LEAD-
ERSHIP IN THE PEANUT INDUS-
TRY AND THE BENEFICIAL WORK
OF THE PEANUT INDUSTRY IN
THE UNITED STATES AND THE
STATE OF GEORGIA
Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 196
Whereas, in 1917 and 1918, commercial pea-
nut shellers and crushers in Georgia, Ala-
bama, and Florida recognized the need for an
organization to promote the peanut industry
in the southeastern United States;
Whereas, to address that need, the South-
eastern Peanut Association was chartered on
April 5, 1919, with a mission to promote the
domestic peanut industry;
Whereas the Southeastern Peanut Associa-
tion, now known as the American Peanut
Shellers Association—
(1) is the oldest organized group in the
United States dedicated to the promotion of
the domestic peanut industry; and
(2) has been at the forefront of leadership
in the peanut industry in the United States
for more than a century, promoting that in-
dustry in the United States and throughout
the world;
Whereas, in furtherance of the mission to
promote the domestic peanut industry, the
Southeastern Peanut Association began to
cosponsor the USA Peanut Congress, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.024 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2748 May 8, 2019
largest meeting of all elements of the peanut
industry in the United States;
Whereas, in 1986, the Southeastern Peanut
Association completed a new headquarters
office in Albany, Georgia, after outgrowing a
previous office;
Whereas, in 1993, the name of the South-
eastern Peanut Association was changed to
the American Peanut Shellers Association,
as the mission of the association had ex-
panded throughout the United States;
Whereas, in 1996, the American Peanut
Shellers Association formed The Peanut In-
stitute to promote the nutritional benefits of
peanuts;
Whereas The Peanut Institute has pro-
moted nutritional research through outside
universities and other organizations, and
that research has verified the outstanding
nutritional benefits of peanuts;
Whereas, on recognizing those nutritional
benefits, the Food and Drug Administration,
pursuant to the leadership of The Peanut In-
stitute, granted nuts a qualified health
claim;
Whereas the members, committees, and
board of the American Peanut Shellers Asso-
ciation work collectively to meet the adopt-
ed annual goals of the American Peanut
Shellers Association; and
Whereas, through that collective work, the
American Peanut Shellers Association con-
tinues to be an effective voice for the pro-
motion of—
(1) the peanut industry; and
(2) the nutritional benefits of peanuts:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes—
(1) the American Peanut Shellers Associa-
tion for a century of effective leadership in
the peanut industry; and
(2) the beneficial work of the peanut indus-
try in—
(A) the United States; and
(B) the State of Georgia.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 197—RECOG-
NIZING THE ROLES AND CON-
TRIBUTIONS OF THE TEACHERS
OF THE UNITED STATES IN
BUILDING AND ENHANCING THE
CIVIC, CULTURAL, AND ECO-
NOMIC WELL-BEING OF THE
UNITED STATES
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. WYDEN,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
ROSEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. BLUNT, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. WICKER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. COONS, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
ROBERTS, Mr. BENNET, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. KING, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. JONES, and Ms. HIRONO)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 197
Whereas education and knowledge are the
foundation of the current and future
strength of the United States;
Whereas teachers and other education staff
have earned and deserve the respect of their
students and communities for the selfless
dedication of the teachers and staff to com-
munity service and the futures of the chil-
dren of the United States;
Whereas the purposes of National Teacher
Appreciation Week, celebrated from May 6,
2019, through May 10, 2019, are—
(1) to raise public awareness of the
unquantifiable contributions of teachers; and
(2) to promote greater respect and under-
standing for the teaching profession; and
Whereas students, schools, communities,
and a number of organizations representing
educators are hosting teacher appreciation
events in recognition of National Teacher
Appreciation Week: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) thanks the teachers of the United
States; and
(2) promotes the profession of teaching by
encouraging students, parents, school admin-
istrators, and public officials to participate
in teacher appreciation events during Na-
tional Teacher Appreciation Week.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have 8
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, May 8, 2019, at
9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘New entrants in the National Air-
space.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, May 8, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
on U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ civil
work program.’’
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, May 8, 2019, at
9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘Examining MACRA implementation.’’
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, May
8, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, May 8,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, May 8,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘The Older American Act.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES
The Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces of the Committee on Armed
Services is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, May 8, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON BORDER SECURITY AND
IMMIGRATION
The Subcommittee on Border Secu-
rity and Immigration of the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Wednesday, May 8, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Abigail
Regitsky, a fellow in my office, be
granted floor privileges for the remain-
der of this week.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Sydney
Fincher, a member of my staff, be
granted floor privileges for the remain-
der of the 116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNIZING THE AMERICAN
PEANUT SHELLERS ASSOCIATION
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
196, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 196) recognizing the
American Peanut Shellers Association for a
century of effective leadership in the peanut
industry and the beneficial work of the pea-
nut industry in the United States and the
State of Georgia.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 196) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE ROLES AND
CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE TEACH-
ERS OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
197, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 197) recognizing the
roles and contributions of the teachers of the
United States in building and enhancing the
civic, cultural, and economic well-being of
the United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY6.029 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2749
May 8, 2019
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 197) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, MAY 9,
2019
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 9:30 a.m., Thursday, May 9;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, and the time for the
two leaders be reserved for their use
later in the day, and morning business
be closed; further, that the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the Park nomination
under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
May 9, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate May 8, 2019:
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
SPENCER BACHUS III, OF ALABAMA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 20, 2023.
JUDITH DELZOPPO PRYOR, OF OHIO, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 20, 2021.
KIMBERLY A. REED, OF WEST VIRGINIA, TO BE PRESI-
DENT OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 20, 2021.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
JANET DHILLON, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1, 2022.
THE JUDICIARY
JOSEPH F. BIANCO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G08MY6.064 S08MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E555
May 8, 2019
HONORING THE PERMIAN BASIN
HONOR FLIGHT
HON. K. MICHAEL CONAWAY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the 87 Veterans from West Texas
who will be visiting Washington, D.C. this
week, sponsored by the Permian Basin Honor
Flight. On behalf of a grateful state and nation,
we welcome these heroes to the nation’s cap-
ital.
The Veterans on this Honor Flight are: Ben-
jamin Acosta, Clinton Adams, Lawrence
Adams, George Alexander, Wanliss Arm-
strong, Edward Atwood, James Basse, Robert
Bennett, Thomas Bright, Sidney Bryan, Mi-
chael Chaney, Clarence Chapman, Mary
Cheek, Richard Cotte, Troy Crosby, William
Decker, Jr., David Dilbeck, Truett Eaton, Ray-
mond Flores, Paul Flynn, Jr., Richard Gallo-
way, Jackie Green, Larry Griffith, Gilberto
Guzman, Stephen Harrison, John Hufford,
Donald Hunt, Daniel Jacques, Enrique
Jaramillo, Jr., Raymond Jenkins, Darrell John-
son, Melvin Johnson, Henry Kalawe, Jr., Stan-
ley Klett, Arthur Laengrich, Larry Laengrich,
Robert Lathrop, Horace Lloyd, Daryl Locker,
Guadalupe Madrid, Alonzo Martinez, Haskell
Mayo, Jr., Mickey McCown, Curtis McFarland,
Jr., James McKinzie, Jr., Earl Moize, Thomas
Molder III, Travis Monday, Eugene Morgan,
Stanley Mulsow, Curtis Nicholson, Warren
Oakley, Joe Padilla, Lupe Padilla, Solon Page,
Armando Perales, Marion Pride, Johnnye
Proctor, David Reeves, Lloyd Ritchey, Donald
Rogers, Doyle Schwartz, Robert Schoff, Jr.,
Don Seales, Wesley Seales, Tommy Seward,
Joan Shannon, Joseph Smith III, Robert
Sorem, Perry Stevens, Marion Stone, Bobby
Stringer, Alfonso Telck, Bobby Trammell, Ed-
ward Twood, Gumecindo Urias, Antonio Urias,
Santiago Urias, Jr., Steve Wagner, Alvin
Wankowski, Douglas Wankowski, Kenneth
Warrington, Gary Watkins, Ben Webb, Danny
Whitaker, Kenneth Winford, and Tony
Yzaguirre.
Madam Speaker, I am humbled to have the
opportunity to meet these brave men and
women who exemplify the best of our country.
Their sacrifice and commitment to duty to our
nation can never be fully repaid, and I hope
that they will be able to reflect on the gratitude
and respect that Americans have for them as
they visit our nation’s monuments in Wash-
ington, D.C., the gratitude and respect we
have for them will truly be reflected.
Colleagues, please join me in thanking
these veterans and their families for their ex-
emplary dedication and service to this great
nation. I would also like to extend a special
thank you to the local communities, all of the
volunteers, and Mr. John West and Mrs. Te-
resa Galloway for their extensive work in orga-
nizing this Honor Flight. This trip would not
have been possible without all the financial
and emotional support of the people who have
put in so much hard work and personal time
to make sure this trip could be possible.
f
REMEMBERING LAURENCE M.
BLOCH
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to remember an important mentor, advisor and
my quasi-brother/father, Laurence M. Bloch,
whom the world knew as ‘‘Larry.’’
Larry, a Memphis native and longtime real
estate investor and contributor to humanitarian
causes, passed away on February 23 in Santa
Monica, California, at the age of 87. A font of
sage advice, Larry was constantly there for
me and for many others who loved him for the
caring individual he was. After graduating from
Christian Brothers High School in 1949, Larry
went to the University of Michigan, serving as
a cheerleader for the Wolverines and traveling
by train with the team to the 1951 Rose Bowl
in which Michigan beat the California Golden
Bears 14 to 6.
Larry graduated with a degree in economics
in 1953 then served two years in the U.S.
Army before returning to Memphis and the
real estate investment business. He remained
an avid Michigan fan his whole life and used
to tape every game. Known for his disheveled
salt-and-pepper hair and socks-less and tie-
less style, and for riding his bicycle like Albert
Einstein, he also drove around town in a Lin-
coln Continental with coach doors. He cele-
brated healthy eating habits as a prophet of
whole grains and fiber.
An investor with a keen eye for good deals
in Memphis’ downtown, he had the good
sense to own the property kitty-corner from
The Peabody on Union Avenue that was torn
down to create AutoZone Park. A patron of
the arts, he also supported the Memphis Crisis
Center, Meals on Wheels and the Church
Health Center among his charitable causes.
As a cat lover, another of his charitable
causes was The House of Mews, where he
was for a while the top cat. A charming story
teller, he provided useful advice and helped
many people solve their problems.
I was fortunate to have had him as a good
friend and will miss him greatly. I want to ex-
tend my condolences to his daughter Cheryl
and to his grandsons Nick and Alex. Larry
Bloch led an exemplary life.
f
HONORING ROBERT H. TWISS,
PH.D.
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the 85th birthday of Dr.
Robert H. Twiss and a lifetime of work pro-
moting and progressing environmental stew-
ardship in Marin County and the entire Bay
Area.
Born in Chicago, Illinois, Dr. Twiss and his
family moved to Washington, then Oregon,
and finally settled in San Jose, California,
when Dr. Twiss was in the second grade.
After attending Willow Glen High School, Dr.
Twiss graduated from San Jose State Univer-
sity in 1955, with a Bachelor of Arts degree in
Conservation. During this period, he proudly
played the banjo for a band in San Francisco.
He then honorably served in the Michigan Air
National Guard and the United States Air
Force as a tactical fighter pilot. He later
earned both his Master’s and Ph.D. from the
University of Michigan, School of Natural Re-
sources.
After completing his education, Dr. Twiss
opened his own consulting company, which is
still active today. In this capacity, he has con-
sulted on projects for California’s Attorney
General, the United States Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, the California Department of
Water Resources, and many other important
agencies and environmental organizations.
Dr. Twiss was Professor of Environmental
Planning at The University of California,
Berkeley from 1968 to 1994. In this role, Dr.
Twiss taught new generations of environ-
mentalists all aspects of the work including
planning, research, and consulting. He was
also involved in graduate-level instruction on
ecological planning and environmental law and
served in a variety of leadership roles includ-
ing as Chair of the Department of Landscape
Architecture and Environmental Planning, and
Chair of the Faculty of the College of Environ-
mental Design. He also directed the Ph.D.
program in Environmental Planning.
Among his many contributions to research
on environmental planning, Dr. Twiss was
Faculty Principal Investigator for the Research
Program in Environmental Planning and Geo-
graphic Systems at the University of Cali-
fornia, which developed tools and programs to
allow open access to geographic information
on land use, natural resources, and became
the world’s first web-based geographic infor-
mation system in 1993. Dr. Twiss, always
wanting to share his knowledge and informa-
tion with others, received the patent for his
system and put it in the public domain for oth-
ers to use and benefit from.
Dr. Twiss enjoys spending time with his lov-
ing wife and partner Amy Skewes-Cox and
their son Carson, along with his children Greg-
ory and Gail from a previous marriage. He
loves spending his time outside in nature hik-
ing, sailing, and flying his own small plane. He
is also known as an avid banjo and ukulele
player, much to the delight of his friends and
family.
Madam Speaker, Dr. Twiss’s leadership and
vision has helped make remarkable strides to-
wards maintaining and growing environ-
mentally sustainable practices that will benefit
the region and all who work to improve the en-
vironment for generations to come. Therefore,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K08MY8.001 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E556 May 8, 2019
please join me in recognizing Dr. Robert H.
Twiss on the occasion of his 85th birthday.
f
HONORING PETE RICHMOND
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Pete Richmond
as the Napa Valley Grower of the Year for
2019.
Mr. Richmond’s career in agriculture began
in 1986 after earning a degree in Agricultural
Business from California State University,
Fresno. He started working for Bien Nacido
Vineyards, gaining valuable experience as a
vintner. Mr. Richmond went on to work for
other prestigious wineries. In 1992 he was at
Stag’s Leap Winery; he worked at Atlas Peak
Winery from 1993 to 1995; from 1995 to 2001
he was at Kendall Jackson. After spending 15
years at various wineries, Mr. Richmond
founded the Silverado Farming Company, a
vineyard management and client communica-
tions company. Wineries contract Silverado
Farming Company to tend, field, and harvest
grapes in Napa County. The company over-
sees vineyard management for over 600 acres
of Cabernet grapes.
Mr. Richmond’s passion for agriculture is
not confined to the vineyard. He is involved in
our community through his philanthropic ef-
forts and the Boards on which he sits. In
2006, Mr. Richmond established the One Per-
cent for the Community Fund, a foundation
that receives one percent of gross revenue
profits made by the Silverado Farming Com-
pany. The foundation uses the money to sup-
port at-risk youth in our community and help
find a solution for a variety of issues that im-
pact farm workers. Mr. Richmond is on the
Farmworker Foundation Board of Directors, a
past member of the Napa Valley Grape grow-
er’s Board of Directors, and an Advisory Board
Member for Teens Connect. He is active in
the housing community as a member of Napa
Valley Community Housing and Napa County
Housing Commission. Mr. Richmond is also
involved with Ag for Youth and is a former
Babe Ruth Baseball League Coach.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Richmond is the com-
munity member we should all strive to be. He
is a person of integrity, generous and caring,
and well-deserving of the title Napa Valley
2019 Grower of the Year. It is therefore fitting
and proper that we honor Pete Richmond here
today.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF ROBERT HAROLD OGLE, A
FOUNDING MEMBER OF ALPHA
PHI ALPHA FRATERNITY INCOR-
PORATED
HON. ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today, on behalf of Representatives
DANNY DAVIS, GREGORY MEEKS, DAVID SCOTT,
EMANUEL CLEAVER, AL GREEN, STEVEN
HORSFORD and myself, to recognize and honor
the life and legacy of Robert Harold Ogle—a
founding member of Alpha Phi Alpha Frater-
nity Incorporated and a trailblazer in the
United States Congress.
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated was
established on December 4, 1906 at Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York. The founding
members of Alpha Phi Alpha are affectionately
known as the Seven Jewels. These men were
pioneers in their respective fields and their ac-
complishments were monumental considering
the racial attitudes of our nation in 1906.
Jewel Henry Arthur Callis became a prac-
ticing physician and a Professor of Medicine at
Howard University. He was also the only
member of the ‘‘Cornell Seven’’ to become
General President of the fraternity.
Jewel Charles Henry Chapman was a lead-
er in higher education and became a Pro-
fessor of Agriculture at what is now Florida
A&M University.
Jewel Eugene Kinckle Jones became the
first Executive Secretary of the National Urban
League.
Jewel George Biddle Kelley was the first Af-
rican American engineer registered in the
state of New York.
Jewel Nathaniel Allison Murray pursued a
career in education and taught in public
schools in Washington, D.C.
Jewel Vertner Woodson Tandy was the first
architect registered in New York and the first
African American to pass the military commis-
sioning exam, becoming a First Lieutenant in
the 15th Infantry of the New York State Na-
tional Guard.
As members of Alpha Phi Alpha gather on
Capitol Hill this week for Alpha Days on the
Hill, it is only fitting to recognize the life and
legacy of Jewel Robert Harold Ogle, who was
the first known African American to have
served as a professional Senate committee
staffer.
Jewel Ogle was born in Washington, D.C. in
1886. He was educated at the historic M
Street School, one of the nation’s first public
high schools for African American youth. After
graduating from the M Street School, Jewel
Ogle studied at Cornell University where he
earned a degree in agriculture with an empha-
sis on business administration.
Senate records show that Jewel Ogle was
originally hired in 1919 as a ‘‘laborer’’ for the
Senate Appropriations Committee, chaired by
Senator Francis E. Warren of Wyoming. His
title was changed to ‘‘messenger’’ for the com-
mittee in 1921, and he was finally named an
‘‘additional clerk’’ in 1930.
It is important that we honor Jewel Ogle,
who a century ago, paved the way for African
American congressional staffers today. He es-
tablished and exemplified the ideals of Alpha
Phi Alpha Fraternity in leadership, scholarship,
and service. At his funeral service, Jewel Na-
thaniel Allison recognized Jewel Ogle for ‘‘his
unabated enthusiasm and his fighting spirit.’’
As members of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity visit
the United States Capitol this week for Alpha
Days on the Hill with a commitment to ‘‘Advo-
cacy and Action,’’ Jewel Ogle’s ‘‘fighting spirit’’
goes with them, as well as with each of the
Members of Congress who are proud mem-
bers of this fraternity.
Madam Speaker, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity
has been at the forefront of advocacy for our
communities and in uplifting the downtrodden
for 113 years. The tremendous work and ac-
complishments of this fraternity and its mem-
bers would not have been possible without the
Seven Jewels. And here on Capitol Hill, the
legacy of Jewel Robert Harold Ogle lives on
today in each of the African American con-
gressional staffers who serve behind the
scenes of this august institution. I thank Jewel
Ogle for being a true trailblazer for these re-
markable men and women who followed in his
footsteps.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ELIZABETH
(BETSY) PAGE ALDRICH AND
HER 65 YEARS OF SERVICE TO
THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMER-
ICAN REVOLUTION
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Betsy Aldrich and her
65 years of service to the Daughters of the
American Revolution. I would like to personally
thank her for her service and dedication to our
nation.
Betsy was born in Richmond, Virginia and
raised at Shelly in ‘‘Coke’’ Virginia, where she
resides today. She attended Mary Washington
College for two years and then headed to Wil-
liam and Mary, where she earned a degree in
philosophy. Betsy went on to teach early ele-
mentary school in Alexandria, Virginia. Betsy
married her husband Robert D. Aldrich in
1951 and had two children, John Page Aldrich
and Dr. Lee Aldrich Rouse.
Betsy descends from John Page of
Rosewell, the 13th Governor of Virginia and
Thomas Nelson, Jr, a signer of the Declaration
of Independence. Following in the footsteps of
her heritage, Betsy has always been incredibly
interested in Virginia history and is the only
surviving charter member of the Augustine
Warner Chapter of the DAR formed in 1953.
I commend Betsy for her work with the DAR
over the past 65 years and am grateful to
have someone such as Betsy in our Virginia
community.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in the
recognition of Betsy Aldrich. The Common-
wealth is fortunate to have someone with such
dedication and commitment. May God bless
Betsy Aldrich and I look forward to seeing her
continued success for many years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I was unable to cast my vote on May 7, 2019
for Roll Call Vote 185 and Roll Call Vote 186.
Had I been present, my vote would have been
the following: Yea on Roll Call Vote 185, and
Yea on Roll Call 186.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.001 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E557
May 8, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF LINDA
ROSENBERG
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Linda Rosenberg, the outgoing
CEO of the National Council for Behavioral
Health. As members of the community gather
today, I ask my colleagues to join me in hon-
oring Linda for her leadership as a health care
architect and reformer in advancing quality
care for individuals with behavioral health dis-
orders.
For 15 years, Linda has served as the
President and CEO of the National Council for
Behavioral Health. Under her leadership, the
National Council has become the nation’s
most effective advocate for behavioral health
care, serving 10 million adults, children, and
families. Linda’s work has played a critical role
in expanding the financing for integrated be-
havioral health services, ensuring the passage
of federal mental health and addiction parity
law, as well as introducing Mental Health First
Aid in the U.S. She also helped to ensure the
inclusion of behavioral health services in the
Affordable Care Act.
Linda’s commitment to the advancement of
behavioral health care can be seen throughout
the duration of her career. Prior to the Na-
tional Council, she served as Senior Deputy
Commissioner of New York State Office of
Mental Health and helped to implement New
York’s first Mental Health Court. She also has
over 30 years of experience as certified social
worker, family therapist and psychiatric reha-
bilitation practitioner. Linda currently serves on
several boards of directors and is a member
of the Executive Committee of the National
Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention. In her
honor, the National Council recently granted
her the Lifetime Achievement Award at their
2019 annual conference.
Madam Speaker, as we gather to celebrate
Linda Rosenberg’s lifetime of achievements, I
ask all my colleagues to join me in honoring
her dedication and leadership in the improve-
ment of mental health and substance services.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, while on a fact-finding mission to South
America to conduct oversight of U.S. assist-
ance and assess the situation at the Ven-
ezuelan border, I was unavoidably detained.
As a result, I missed roll call votes No. 170
and No. 171. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 170, and
YEA on Roll Call No. 171.
IN HONOR OF BARBARA
THOMASON
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in
recognition of Barbara Thomason for her out-
standing service and profound impact as
President and CEO of the Houston Northwest
Chamber of Commerce.
An accomplished Texas scholar, Barbara
holds a bachelor’s degree from The University
of Texas at Austin and a master’s degree in
Management from Houston Baptist University.
She also holds a Chamber Management cer-
tification from the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce’s Institute for Organizational Manage-
ment, and a certification in Professional Com-
munity and Economic Development.
Prior to her service at the Houston North-
west Chamber of Commerce, Barbara had a
diverse and impressive portfolio of profes-
sional experience. She served as the Dean of
Corporate and Continuing Education at Lone
Star College—North Harris, worked in training
and development for the American General
companies, and was a small-business owner
of the Gymboree franchise.
She then went on to found the Northwest
Chamber of Commerce Foundation, which
provides scholarships and educational re-
sources to local students. During her time with
the Northwest Chamber, Barbara has proven
to be a friend, leader and dedicated citizen of
Houston. Throughout her years of public serv-
ice, Barbara has been a model of exceptional
civic duty, and has remained devoted to the
advancement of Houston area businesses
through grassroot level advocacy for local
safety and economic development.
In 2015, Barbara was named as a Woman
of Excellence by the Women’s Business
Forum. The following year, Leadership North
Houston honored Barbara as the 2016 Distin-
guished Volunteer. By 2017, Barbara was se-
lected for a position on the Executive Board
on the Texas Chamber of Commerce. Each
award is well-deserved, and recognizes her
steadfast service to our community.
This year, Barbara is retiring following her
15 years of exceptional service to the Houston
Northwest Chamber of Commerce. However, I
know that Barbara will continue to be a leader
and champion of family training and develop-
ment during her next professional venture as
a consultant. I am proud to join her family,
friends, and colleagues in recognizing her
many contributions to Northwest Houston. I
thank her and I wish all the best on her next
adventure.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 29TH ANNUAL
D.C. BLACK PRIDE
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing the 29th annual D.C. Black
Pride and the 50th anniversary of the Stone-
wall Riots.
This Memorial Day week the National Cap-
ital Region welcomes members of the African
American LGBTQ community to celebrate
‘‘Our Truths In Harmony’’ at the 29th annual
D.C. Black Pride.
The festivities begin May 20th at 5:00 p.m.
with the Damian Ministries’ Black Pride Kick
Off Reception and they close at 6:00 p.m. May
27th with Helping Us People Into Living’s
‘‘Pride In the Park’’ festival at Fort DuPont
Park.
On May 21st, D.C. Black Pride honors its
2019 award winners at the D.C. Black Pride
Awards Reception. The National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP) President and Chief Executive Der-
rick Johnson receives the President’s Award.
The 2019 Welmore Cook Awards go to Bishop
Allyson Nelson Abrams, founder prelate and
pastor of Empowerment Liberation Cathedral,
her spouse, Bishop Emerita Diana Williams,
and Dr. Dii-Quartelai Quartey of the National
Association of Retired Persons (NAARP) and
the Robert H. Smith School of Business.
Steven ‘‘Kahos’’ Wilson, Founder and CEO
of Ovah the Top Productions and Executive
Director of the OASIS Dance Company, re-
ceives the Unsung Hero Award. Black Pride
recognizes True Colors United Senior Pro-
gram Officer Kahlib Barton with the Leader-
ship Award. Shi-Queeta Lee, noted DMV Drag
Entertainer and costume designer, is honored
with the Earline Budd Award.
Black Pride acknowledges U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services Health Impact
Specialist Derrick Câoméi ‘‘Strawberry’’ Cox
as the Charlotte Smallwood Volunteer of the
Year for 2019. Gail Oliver and Nana Amuah-
Afenyi VI (born Peggielene Bartles, known in-
formally as ‘‘King Peggy’’), chief of Tatum
Ghana, receive the Curtis L. Etherly, Jr., Ally
Award. Michael Beale of Mb Staffing Services,
LLC, receives the D.C. Black Pride Small
Business Award.
This year, Black Pride initiates the Alan
Sharpe Award for contributions to art by
awarding it to its namesake, Alan Sharpe,
Founding Artistic Director of Washington,
D.C.’s African-American Collective Theater.
Black Pride continues through Memorial Day
with town halls, educational workshops, a po-
etry slam hosted by Mary Bowman, an inter-
faith worship service, and social events, in-
cluding breakfasts, brunches, dinners and
happy hours.
D.C. Black and Lesbian Gay Pride Day
began my first year in Congress. On Sunday,
May 26, 1991, 800 people gathered at
Banneker Field on Georgia Avenue. I have
watched it mature from an ad hoc event to
one of the world’s preeminent Black Pride
celebrations. Now D.C. Black Pride draws
more than 50,000 participants from the United
States, Africa, Europe and the Americas to our
nation’s capital.
D.C. Black Pride fostered the beginning of
the Center for Black Equity (formerly known as
the International Federation of Black Prides,
Inc.) and the ‘‘Black Pride Movement,’’ which
now consists of 53 Black Prides on four con-
tinents. I commend the volunteer Advisory
Board that assists Earl D. Fowlkes, Jr., Jeffrey
Richardson, Michael S. Hinson, Jr., C. Haw-
kins, Kenya Hutton and Genise Chamber-
Woods in the planning and execution of D.C.
Black Pride.
As Black Pride comes to town, I also take
this opportunity to inform the celebrants and to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.006 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E558 May 8, 2019
remind my colleagues of the various limita-
tions Congress has placed on the District of
Columbia. Despite paying more federal taxes
than 22 states and paying the highest per cap-
ita federal taxes in the United States, the resi-
dents of Washington, D.C. still do not have full
voting representation in Congress.
I ask the House to join me in welcoming all
attending the 29th annual D.C. Black Pride
celebration.
f
HONORING A GIANT OF PUTNAM
COUNTY
HON. ALEXANDER X. MOONEY
OF WEST VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I would like to include in the RECORD
the following obituary for Mr. Bill O’Dell of Put-
nam County:
FRIENDS AND FAMILY HONORING COMMUNITY
LEADER IN PUTNAM COUNTY WHO SUDDENLY
PASSED AWAY
(By Taylor Eaton)
PUTNAM COUNTY, W.VA. (WSAZ).—A man
who dedicated his life to preventing teen
substance abuse in Putnam County passed
away suddenly on Monday.
Bill O’Dell was a community leader in
many ways. He dedicated his life to sub-
stance abuse prevention across West Vir-
ginia.
O’Dell passed away while he was swimming
in the pool at the YMCA in Teays Valley.
Friends and family say he suffered a medical
emergency.
Most of his work was centered in Putnam
County. O’Dell was the director of the Put-
nam Wellness Coalition, a group that was
formed to educate teenagers about the dan-
gers of alcohol and drugs.
O’Dell spent his time going into schools to
speak to students, setting up fundraising
events for the coalition and participating in
different promotions around prom and grad-
uation time. That’s just to name a few.
Evan Young, who worked with O’Dell for
many years, says they just wrapped up an
event for Cinco de Mayo over the weekend
that was geared toward making sure kids
had a safe and fun environment. Most of the
proceeds from the event went to the Putnam
Wellness Coalition.
f
TRIBUTE TO JAMES H.
BILLINGTON, 13TH LIBRARIAN OF
CONGRESS
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I am pleased to join numerous col-
leagues in honoring the life and legacy of
James H. Billington, the 13th Librarian of Con-
gress, who died on November 20, 2018.
Before Jim Billington’s appointment as Li-
brarian of Congress in 1987, he served thir-
teen productive years as director of the Wood-
row Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Before that, and throughout his career, he was
a researcher and author, continuing to
produce serious scholarship on Russian his-
tory and culture.
Jim was the inspiration behind the Open
World Leadership Center, a unique Library of
Congress—Legislative Branch initiative which
for twenty years has administered thousands
of exchange visits to the United States of pro-
fessionals and other leaders from post-Soviet
and post-communist states. As a current
board member of Open World, I have deep-
ened my appreciation of Dr. Billington’s legacy
and of the way the Center can compliment
and support the House’s work, through the
House Democracy Partnership (HDP), to pro-
mote parliamentary development in emerging
democracies.
Like many members of Congress, I have
enjoyed a cordial and productive working rela-
tionship with Jim Billington for years—from the
Legislative Branch Appropriations sub-
committee, to Open World, to encouraging
Congressional Research Service engagement
with HDP’s partner legislatures, to the building
of programs such as American Memory—the
national digital library—and the John W. Kluge
Center’s program for visiting scholars. In re-
cent years, Jim and his wife Marjorie have
been a welcoming presence at the wonderful
Library of Congress dinners, sponsored by
David Rubenstein, featuring authors of major
studies in American biography and history.
Madam Speaker, Jim Billington lived a full
and consequential life of scholarship, institu-
tional innovation, and public service. We miss
his cordial and collegial presence as we
mourn his passing and appreciate his wide-
ranging legacy. We extend gratitude and good
wishes to Marjorie and their family in the hope
that the outpouring of affections and apprecia-
tion will offer solace and support at this time
of loss.
f
HONORING CHAPMAN UNIVER-
SITY’S FIRST RHODES SCHOLAR
MR. VIDAL ARROYO
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. Vidal Arroyo for being selected
as the first ever Rhodes Scholar from Chap-
man University, a prominent research Univer-
sity in my district.
As one of 32 U.S. scholars selected for a
Rhodes Scholarship, he will be provided all
expenses for up to four years of study at the
University of Oxford in England. Mr. Arroyo
earned his place as a Rhodes Scholar, not
only for his outstanding scholarly achieve-
ments, but for his character and commitment
to his education.
I applaud Mr. Arroyo for maintaining a per-
fect GPA in his educational career. He has ex-
pressed his unique passion to become a new
paradigm of science by striving toward his
goal of creating artificial intelligence tools that
are driven to treat cancer.
Mr. Arroyo comes from a humble back-
ground and is the first in his family to attend
college. As a founder and President of Chap-
man STEMstors, he has been mentoring at-
risk youth to explore careers in science, tech-
nology, engineering, and math.
While volunteering at Children’s Hospital of
Orange County, he was exposed to children
struggling with obesity and other diseases
after being declared cancer-free; thus, moti-
vating him to conduct research on the relation-
ship between cancer and obesity. His passion
for finding treatments for cancer is dem-
onstrated by his drive to design artificial intel-
ligence algorithms that can be used to person-
alize cancer treatment. Mr. Arroyo’s contribu-
tions toward supporting and developing tools
for cancer treatment could potentially impact
the lives of millions around the world.
Mr. Arroyo’s passion for education has been
the framework of his success. As a first-gen-
eration college student, and now Chapman
University’s first Rhodes Scholar, he is an ex-
traordinary inspiration to our community. For
this reason, I ask my colleagues to join me in
honoring and recognizing the accomplish-
ments and career of Vidal Arroyo. Go Pan-
thers.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. DAVID L.
MCKENNA
HON. TIM WALBERG
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Dr. David L. McKenna, a
legendary leader in Christian higher education,
as he celebrates his 90th birthday during the
month of May 2019.
Born in Michigan, Dr. McKenna received an
education at Spring Arbor College, Western
Michigan University, and Asbury Theological
Seminary, culminating with a Ph.D. from the
University of Michigan.
Dr. McKenna served as the President of
Spring Arbor College (now university), a re-
spected Christian college in my district, from
1961 to 1968. He led the transformation of
Spring Arbor from a two-year college to a bac-
calaureate institution and years later served as
the Chairman of the Board when it became
Spring Arbor University.
He went on from Spring Arbor to serve as
President of Seattle Pacific University from
1968 to 1982 and as President of Asbury
Theological Seminary in Kentucky from 1982
to 1994, completing a remarkable 33 years of
presidential leadership in higher education.
Dr. McKenna and his wife, Janet, now live
in Kirkland, Washington, where they remain
active and continue to positively impact peo-
ple’s lives. For many years, he has been a
prolific author, continuing to publish at least
one book per year.
I ask my colleagues in the United States
House of Representatives to join me in wish-
ing Dr. David L. McKenna a happy 90th birth-
day, and in expressing best wishes for future
blessings.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND
LEGACY OF RODNEY BURRESS
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life and legacy of Rodney
Burress who passed away on April 29, 2019
at the age of 58 after decades of service to
Taylor County.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.009 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E559
May 8, 2019
Rodney faithfully served his community in
multiple capacities throughout his life. He
maintained local roadways during his time with
the Road Department, protected the commu-
nity as the County Jailer, and impacted many
during his time as Taylor County Circuit Clerk.
In his final years of public service, he was an
especially strong supporter of the Kentucky
Circuit Court Clerks’ Trust for Life which pro-
motes organ donor awareness. When he was
not serving his community, Rodney enjoyed
spending time farming with his father, brother,
and sons.
Those in Taylor County remember Rodney
for his servant’s heart and kind spirit. His
membership in the Honorable Order of Ken-
tucky Colonels is a testament to these charac-
teristics. He lived his life in faith and was a
brilliant light in the community who practiced
compassionate conservatism.
I join Rodney’s family and friends, as well
as all those he impacted, in celebrating his life
of devoted service to the 1st District of Ken-
tucky. May God continue to bless the mem-
bers of his family through whom his legacy
lives on.
f
LIFE AND SERVICE OF GARY
TURNER
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life and service of Mr. Gary Turner
of Sarcoxie, Missouri.
Born and raised in Springfield, Missouri,
Gary was in the first graduating class at Glen-
dale High School where he excelled at both
academics and sports. After high school, he
attended the University of Missouri-Rolla until
1968 when he got drafted into the United
States Army. During his time in the military, he
served in Vietnam with the 82nd Airborne, the
1st Infantry Division and finally, with the 25th
Infantry Division.
After returning home, Gary continued his
service to our country by co-founding a vet-
erans’ center in Springfield focused on men
and women coming back from war and pro-
viding them with the resources they need to
assimilate back into society. He has always
said it’s not what he gets, it’s what he can
give back.
To add to his already long list of accom-
plishments serving others, in 2011, Gary took
over as head of the Community Foundation in
Sarcoxie, which he has led ever since. Cre-
ated in collaboration with a U.S. Department
of Agriculture initiative to help with job creation
and economic development in rural areas, the
foundation is a way for residents to give to
their community and see the fruits of their
labor in real time, as the benefits all go di-
rectly into the community. Gary says that the
foundation is a way for everyone to get in-
volved in the community, and he hopes that
the foundation will last forever. He has also
been involved with Sarcoxie Board of Edu-
cation and City Council and is chairman of the
Harry S. Truman Coordinating Council, pro-
viding grant assistance to four area counties.
Madam Speaker, as a Member of Congress
it is my great pleasure to stand and recognize
the lifetime of service that Gary Turner has
given to his country and local communities. He
has truly earned this great honor, and I ask all
Americans to join me in thanking him.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT ADVERTISING EQ-
UITY ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce a bill, the Federal Government Adver-
tising Equity Accountability Act, to require all
federal agencies to include in their annual
budget requests to Congress the amount they
spend on advertising contracts with small dis-
advantaged businesses (SDBs) and busi-
nesses owned by minorities and women. Fed-
eral agencies would be required to provide
prior and projected total expenditures for such
contracts. Representatives BARBARA LEE and
GWEN MOORE are cosponsors of this bill.
In 2007, the Government Accountability Of-
fice (GAO) examined spending on advertising
contracts with minority-owned businesses by
five agencies—the Department of Defense,
the Department of the Treasury, the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, the De-
partment of the Interior and the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration—and found
that only five percent of the $4.3 billion avail-
able for advertising contracts went to minority
businesses. In light of these concerning fig-
ures, several Members of Congress and I sent
a letter to the GAO in April 2016 requesting
updated information on the amount of federal
advertising dollars spent with SDBs and busi-
nesses owned by minorities and women. That
GAO report, released in July 2018, showed
that in fiscal year 2017, only 16 percent of the
federal government’s advertising contract obli-
gations went to SDBs and businesses owned
by minorities and women.
The federal government is the largest adver-
tiser in the United States, and it has an obliga-
tion to ensure equitable access to its contracts
for SDBs and businesses owned by minorities
and women. The GAO’s findings make it clear
that there is still much progress to be made.
The regular collection of information on fed-
eral advertising contracts with SDBs and busi-
nesses owned by women and minorities,
along with the provision of this information to
legislators and stakeholders, is essential to
bridging the divide between what current sta-
tistics show and a more inclusive advertising
landscape. This bill would achieve these goals
while also promoting transparency and en-
couraging federal agencies to strive to reach
minorities, who often receive their daily news
from smaller media outlets that serve commu-
nities of color. The requirement that agencies
submit prior and projected information regard-
ing the amount of advertising dollars spent
with SDBs and businesses owned by minori-
ties and women would allow federal agencies
to evaluate their progress over time. The reg-
ular collection of this information would also
demonstrate that the promotion of equity in
advertising, and in all areas of government,
should be a continuous effort that is important
to the mission of every agency.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
HONORING THE CITY OF WATER-
TOWN ON THE SESQUICENTEN-
NIAL ANNIVERSARY OF ITS IN-
CORPORATION
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today on behalf of the residents of Watertown,
New York as they celebrate the 150th anniver-
sary of the city’s incorporation.
In 1796, surveyor Benjamin Wright arrived
in the Black River area and plotted out the
boundaries of what would later become Water-
town. 73 years later, on May 8, 1869, the City
of Watertown was incorporated. Those pio-
neering settlers had the foresight to see that
the area was ideal for industry and commerce.
Located centrally in Jefferson County, the
Black River runs through the heart of the city.
This enabled the rapid expansion of manufac-
turing and trading and created the perfect en-
vironment for inventors and entrepreneurs.
To this day, Watertown remains a vibrant
and beautiful community that exemplifies the
best qualities of The North Country and the
Nation as a whole. On behalf of New York’s
21st Congressional District, I want to con-
gratulate the residents of Watertown on this
momentous occasion. It has been an honor to
represent this community, and I know that the
future looks bright for Watertown.
f
HONORING THE WORLD WAR II
AND KOREAN WAR VETERANS
OF ILLINOIS
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the World War II and Korean War vet-
erans who traveled to Washington, D.C. on
May 8, 2019 with Honor Flight Chicago, a pro-
gram that provides World War II and Korean
War veterans the opportunity to visit their me-
morials on The National Mall in Washington,
D.C. These memorials were built to honor
their courage and service to their country.
The American Veteran is one of our great-
est treasures. The Soldiers, Airmen, Sailors,
Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who traveled
here on May 8 answered our nation’s call to
service during one of its greatest times of
need. From the European Campaign to the
Pacific Asian Theatre to the African Theater,
these brave Americans risked life and limb,
gave service and sacrificed much, all while
embodying what it is to be a hero. We owe
them more gratitude than can ever be ex-
pressed.
I welcome these brave veterans to Wash-
ington and to their memorials. I am proud to
acknowledge these men and women for all to
see, hear, and recognize, and I call on my col-
leagues to rise and join me in expressing grat-
itude:
DeWayne C. Adams; Ronald Allan; Dale A.
Allen; Ralph R. Anderson; Robert A. Ander-
son; Albert A. Armellino; George T.
Athanasiou; Warren N. Barr, Jr.; Marvin E.
Becker; Robert W. Bennett.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.014 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E560 May 8, 2019
Arthur Berg; William F. Bike; Joseph Booko;
Patrick J. Boyle; Matthias A. Burger, Jr.; Jose
Cervantes; Vincent P. Connor; Bernard T.
Constantine; Frank M. Craven; Paul E. Crowe.
Reginald C. Darley; Herbert E. Davidson;
Theodore De Graff; John J. Debnar; Jerome
A. Denault; Irwin Lloyd Dickstein; George E.
Dirkes; Clarence R. Downey, Jr.; Frank E. Fa-
bian; Harve A. Ferrill.
Robert V. Fitzgibbon; James F. Frey; Ches-
ter Gola; Ronald Goldenstern; Seymour Gott-
lieb; William H. Grady; Reuben T. Grissette;
Gerald Handler; Walter C. Hartmann; Forrest
E. Hazard.
James Holdridge; Peter N. Holt; Michael E.
Hopkins; Walter D. Huseman Jr.; Lawrence J.
Huttel; Will Intoe; Donald D. Jones; Arthur B.
Justice; George J. Lacien; John W. Lee.
Eugene F. Lewaniak Sr.; Herbert S.
Lorman; Robert R. Machon; John S. Matecki;
Mark W. McConville; Donald P. McCormick;
James McEldowney; Richard McNulty; Ken-
neth R. Meisinger; Jack J. Micek.
Wayne C. Morganegg; Paul R. Napholz;
Reynaldo Navarro; Edwin H. Nelson; John Ed-
ward Olson; Raymond F. Panek; Frank M.
Pecoraro; Joseph A. Pecoraro; Harry N.
Percianoff; Chester A. Perczynski.
Jerome R. Radecky; Robert Earl Reed;
John L. Retterer; Frank P. Ring; Joseph F.
Ring; Donald W. Rooks; Anthony C. Sabatino;
George H. Sallman Jr.; Alex Saputa; Edward
Schmitt.
Jerome H. Schuman; Robert V. Sharp; Ken-
neth Shelby; Kenneth L. Shoberg; Robert
John Shouse; Ronald J. Singer; Donald E.
Smith; Howard Willis Stalbaum; Howard Stark;
Frederick T. Staron.
Ronald G. Steinke; Clarence B. Stone;
Thomas E. Sucher; Eugene Szykowny; Robert
M. Terzich; Henry Wabi; James Wagner;
Cyrus T. Wax; and Thomas England Woods.
f
NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
SMALL BUSINESS ACT
HON. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO
SABLAN
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Northern Mariana Islands Small
Business Act, which would ensure small busi-
nesses in my district have access to the Small
Business Administration’s (SBA) Small Busi-
ness Development Center (SBDC) Lead Cen-
ter grant program, the Federal and State
Technology (FAST) partnership grant program
and the Microloan program. The Marianas are
the only U.S. jurisdiction not included in these
programs, which help small businesses ac-
cess the knowledge and capital necessary to
succeed and compete for federal contracting
opportunities.
Last fall, our islands were struck by two cat-
astrophic natural disasters. Typhoon Mangkhut
and Super Typhoon Yutu, the second most
powerful storm ever in United States history,
caused widespread destruction of homes,
businesses, schools and infrastructure. Under
presidential disaster declarations, the SBA set
up temporary disaster recovery centers on
Saipan, Tinian, and Rota to assist small busi-
nesses to apply for loans and other funds to
cover damages resulting from the storms.
We are grateful for the SBA’s assistance
during these disasters. However, all SBA dis-
aster outreach centers in the Marianas are
now closed and our economy is projected to
take years to fully recover. The SBA estimates
there are over 1,700 small businesses in the
Marianas which employ over 18,000 people.
These businesses and employees do not have
access to the full range of SBA programs to
help them fully recover. My bill would correct
that by ensuring access on the same basis as
their counterparts across the nation, many of
whom are also recovering from natural disas-
ters.
Under my bill, the Marianas can apply to es-
tablish a Lead SBDC, which would make
available around $600,000 in renewable fund-
ing to expand the reach and capacity of the
existing SBDC service center on Saipan. With
additional funding, small businesses on
Saipan, Tinian and Rota will have better ac-
cess to free or low-cost services such as incu-
bator workspaces for entrepreneurs, assist-
ance with loan applications, business plan-
ning, operations, personnel administration,
marketing, export assistance, sales and other
areas required for small business growth and
success.
The bill would benefit aspiring entrepreneurs
and small business owners in the Marianas
who are not able to access conventional loans
at commercial banks. This legislation would
provide them access to the SBA’s Microloan
program which provides loans up to $50,000
typically not offered by banks for working cap-
ital or the acquisition of materials, supplies, or
equipment. In addition, the SBA microloan
program, which is designed to assist women,
low-income, veteran, and minority entre-
preneurs, provides marketing, management,
and technical assistance to borrowers.
The Northern Mariana Islands Small Busi-
ness Act would also help our small businesses
participate in federal research and develop-
ment opportunities. The bill includes the Mari-
anas in the SBA’s FAST partnership program
which funds outreach and technical assistance
to small businesses interested in competing
for the Small Business Innovation Research
(SBIR) and Small Business Technology Trans-
fer (STTR) programs. The SBIR and STTR
programs have funded the development of
new sources of renewable energy and low-
cost technology to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.
I urge my colleagues to support this legisla-
tion and help give the aspiring entrepreneurs
and small businesses from the Marianas ac-
cess to the full range of federal resources
needed to help our economy recover from dis-
aster and make their dreams of small busi-
ness ownership a reality.
f
TRIBUTE HONORING THE LIFE OF
JUDGE JAMES DINGLE
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Judge James Dingle.
Judge Dingle’s life exemplified Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr.’s admonition that ‘‘everybody
can be great, because everybody can serve.’’
Judge Dingle was great because he spent
most of his life serving the people of South
Carolina.
Born November 14, 1929 in Alcolu, South
Carolina, Judge Dingle often described himself
as a ‘‘down home country boy who went off
and made good and came back home to work
in my community.’’
Before returning to his hometown, Dingle at-
tended Midlands Technical College in Colum-
bia, South Carolina and continued his edu-
cation at South Carolina State University in
Orangeburg. He spent 30 years as a high
school teacher at C.E. Murray High School in
Greeleyville, South Carolina. During his tenure
at the high school, Dingle strived to positively
impact the lives of as many students as he
could by working in various capacities—an in-
dustrial arts teacher, head football coach, ath-
letic director, and an administrative assistant.
Dingle was appointed as a magistrate judge
in Clarendon County in 1983. He was one of
the first black magistrates in the state of South
Carolina. Dingle loved his job and the people
of Clarendon County, where he served for 12
years. Following his retirement as a magistrate
judge, he became a city judge in Manning.
As a community leader, Dingle was a con-
stant voice of encouragement for the youth in
his community realizing that many of them
were not surrounded by the best environ-
ments. He motivated them to receive an edu-
cation and to be productive citizens. Dingle
became widely known as always putting ‘‘serv-
ice before self.’’
Judge Dingle passed away on April 29,
2019. He will be greatly missed by family,
friends, and the many people he has influ-
enced during his lifetime.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
the life of this servant leader and teacher and
recognizing the positive impact Judge James
Dingle made in Clarendon County, South
Carolina and surrounding areas.
f
IN MEMORY OF RILEY CARL
HOWELL
HON. MARK MEADOWS
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Mr. MEADOWS. Madam Speaker, it is with
great sadness that I rise today to recognize
Riley Carl Howell, a hero from Waynesville,
North Carolina. Riley gave the ultimate sac-
rifice when he saved the lives of his fellow
classmates at the University of North Carolina
at Charlotte on April 30, 2019.
I am honored and humbled to have rep-
resented a young man so full of life, courage,
and selfless character. Riley Howell was fa-
tally shot when a gunman entered his class-
room at the University of North Carolina at
Charlotte and opened fire. Rather than fleeing,
twenty-one-year-old Riley Howell bravely
charged the gunman—knocking him off his
feet, which enabled his classmates to find
cover and allowed the authorities more time to
apprehend the gunman. The Charlotte-Meck-
lenburg Police hailed Riley as a hero and stat-
ed that his bravery prevented further violence
and saved his classmates’ lives. Riley’s self-
less actions on April 30th clearly demonstrate
his courage in the face of adversity—con-
fronting danger to protect those around him—
even at the risk of his own life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.018 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E561
May 8, 2019
My deepest sympathies go out to Riley’s
loved ones that are left behind to grieve his
passing and honor his sacrifice. Riley’s life
touched many, especially his parents, Thomas
Howell and Natalie Henry-Howell, and his sib-
lings, Iris, Juliet, and Teddy. Riley was an en-
thusiastic student and graduated from T.C.
Roberson High School in Asheville, North
Carolina, before studying at Asheville-Bun-
combe Technical College, and the University
of North Carolina at Charlotte. While in school,
Riley served as a cadet in the Army Reserve
Officer Training Corps (ROTC). The ROTC
motto is ‘‘Leadership Excellence’’—Riley em-
bodied the spirit of this motto in his life by
helping and encouraging those around him,
and ultimately by putting the safety of others
ahead of his own. Riley’s life brought endless
joy to those around him, and his legacy of
sacrificial love will continue to inspire and en-
courage all the lives he touched.
Riley had a tremendous impact on his com-
munity, and he will always be remembered as
a hero. Riley’s life was celebrated in Lake
Junaluska, North Carolina on Sunday, May 5,
2019. Riley’s example of putting others first
brings John 15:13 to mind, ‘‘Greater love has
no one than this: to lay down one’s life for
one’s friends.’’
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
May 9, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MAY 14
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the impor-
tance of and path to achieving mineral
security, including S. 1052, to authorize
the Office of Fossil Energy to develop
advanced separation technologies for
the extraction and recovery of rare
earth elements and minerals from coal
and coal byproducts, and S. 1317, to fa-
cilitate the availability, development,
and environmentally responsible pro-
duction of domestic resources to meet
national material or critical mineral
needs.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine 5G, focusing
on national security concerns, intellec-
tual property issues, and the impact on
competition and innovation.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine challenges
in the retirement system.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine fixing a bro-
ken budget and spending process, fo-
cusing on the perspectives of two
former Chairmen.
SD–608
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests,
and Mining
To hold hearings to examine S. 242, to re-
quire the Secretary of Agriculture to
release reversionary and reserved in-
terests in certain land in the Coconino
National Forest in the State of Ari-
zona, S. 258, to prohibit oil and gas
leasing on the National Forest System
land in the Ruby Mountains Ranger
District located in the Humboldt-
Toiyabe National Forest, Elko and
White Pine Counties, Nevada, S. 434, to
provide for a report on the mainte-
nance of Federal land holdings under
the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the
Interior, S. 490, to designate a moun-
tain ridge in the State of Montana as
‘‘B–47 Ridge’’, S. 499, to amend the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to
apply to territories of the United
States, to establish offshore wind lease
sale requirements, to provide dedicated
funding for coral reef conservation, S.
526, to withdraw certain Bureau of
Land Management land from mineral
development, S. 1079, to provide for the
withdrawal and protection of certain
Federal land in the State of New Mex-
ico, and S. 1262, to designate certain
land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management and the Forest
Service in the State of Oregon as wil-
derness and national recreation areas,
to withdraw certain land located in
Curry County and Josephine County,
Oregon, from all forms of entry, appro-
priation, or disposal under the public
land laws, location, entry, and patent
under the mining laws, and operation
under the mineral leasing and geo-
thermal leasing laws.
SD–366
3 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Aviation and Space
To hold hearings to examine the emerg-
ing space environment, focusing on
operational, technical, and policy chal-
lenges.
SD–562
MAY 15
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Agriculture Forest Service.
SD–124
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
financial regulators.
SD–538
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 411, to
establish a Counterterrorism Advisory
Board, S. 1275, to require the collection
of voluntary feedback on services pro-
vided by agencies, S. 580, to amend the
Act of August 25, 1958, commonly
known as the ‘‘Former Presidents Act
of 1958’’, with respect to the monetary
allowance payable to a former Presi-
dent, S. 347, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 40 Fulton Street in Middle-
town, New York, as the ‘‘Benjamin A.
Gilman Post Office Building’’, S. 1196,
to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1715
Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr
Post Office Building’’, S. Con. Res. 15,
expressing support for the designation
of October 28, 2019, as ‘‘Honoring the
Nation’s First Responders Day’’, H.R.
995, to amend chapter 3 of title 5,
United States Code, to require the pub-
lication of settlement agreements, H.R.
1079, to require the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent
forms, H.R. 1608, to amend the Federal
Advisory Committee Act to increase
the transparency of Federal advisory
committees, H.R. 1654, to amend title
44, United States Code, to modernize
the Federal Register, H.R. 1590, to re-
quire an exercise related to terrorist
and foreign fighter travel, H.R. 540, to
designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 770
Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York,
as the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post
Office’’, H.R. 828, to designate the facil-
ity of the United States Postal Service
located at 25 Route 111 in Smithtown,
New York, as the ‘‘Congressman Bill
Carney Post Office’’, H.R. 829, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk
Highway in Mastic, New York, as the
‘‘Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth
Post Office Building’’, an original bill
entitled, ‘‘Improve Data on Sexual Vio-
lence Act’’, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Repeal Insurance Plans of the Multi-
State Program Act’’, an original bill
entitled, ‘‘Supply Chain Counterintel-
ligence Training Act of 2019’’, an origi-
nal bill entitled, ‘‘Construction Con-
sensus Procurement Improvement Act
of 2019’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Rep-
resentative Payee Fraud Prevention
Act of 2019’’, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Early Participation in Regulations
Act of 2019’’, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Stopping Improper Payments to De-
ceased People Act’’, an original bill en-
titled, ‘‘Setting Manageable Analysis
Requirements in Text Act of 2019’’, and
the nominations of James A. Crowell
IV, and Jason Park, both to be an Asso-
ciate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia, Ron A.
Bloom, of New York, and Roman Mar-
tinez IV, of Florida, both to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Serv-
ice, Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be
Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, and Michael Eric
Wooten, of Virginia, to be Adminis-
trator for Federal Procurement Policy.
SD–342
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08MY8.021 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E562 May 8, 2019
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold closed hearings to examine an
intelligence program update and global
threat assessment.
SVC–217
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 384, to
require the Secretary of Commerce,
acting through the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, to help facilitate the adoption
of composite technology in infrastruc-
ture in the United States, S. 737, to di-
rect the National Science Foundation
to support STEM education research
focused on early childhood, S. 1228, to
amend the Communications Act of 1934
to provide for enhanced penalties for
pirate radio, S. 1289, to require the Sec-
retary of Commerce to conduct an as-
sessment and analysis of the effects of
broadband deployment and adoption on
the economy of the United States, and
S. 1294, to require Federal agencies
with jurisdiction over broadband de-
ployment to enter into an interagency
agreement related to certain types of
funding for broadband deployment.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Council on Environmental Quality.
SD–406
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Election Assistance Commission.
SR–301
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion’s innovation programs.
SR–428A
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
SR–418
3 p.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine issues and
challenges at the Power Marketing Ad-
ministrations.
SD–366
MAY 16
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the Depart-
ment of Energy’s carbon capture, utili-
zation, and storage programs, includ-
ing S. 1201, to amend the fossil energy
research and development provisions of
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to en-
hance fossil fuel technology.
SD–366
MAY 20
4 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
5 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
5:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 21
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
11 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
Business meeting to markup those provi-
sions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for
fiscal year 2020.
SD–G50
3:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 22
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
MAY 23
12 noon
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M08MY8.000 E08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D500
Wednesday, May 8, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2707–S2749
Measures Introduced: Twenty-four bills and four
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1357–1380, and S. Res. 194–197. Pages S2742–43
Measures Passed:
American Peanut Shellers Association: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 196, recognizing the American
Peanut Shellers Association for a century of effective
leadership in the peanut industry and the beneficial
work of the peanut industry in the United States
and the State of Georgia. Page S2748
Recognizing the roles and contributions of U.S.
teachers: Senate agreed to S. Res. 197, recognizing
the roles and contributions of the teachers of the
United States in building and enhancing the civic,
cultural, and economic well-being of the United
States. Pages S2748–49
Messages from the President: Senate received the
following messages from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 13338 of May
11, 2004, with respect to the blocking of property
of certain persons and prohibition of exportation and
re-exportation of certain goods to Syria; which was
referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs. (PM–12) Page S2740
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 13667 of May
12, 2014, with respect to the Central African Re-
public; which was referred to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–13)
Page S2741
Transmitting, pursuant to law, notification of the
President’s intent to designate Brazil as a Major
Non-NATO Ally; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations. (PM–14) Page S2741
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the issuance of an Executive Order with respect to
Iran that takes additional steps with respect to the
national emergency declared in Executive Order
12957 of March 15, 1995; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–15) Page S2741
Park Nomination-Agreement: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Michael H. Park, of
New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit. Pages S2723–40
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 105), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S2722–23
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all post-cloture time on the nomination
expire at 1:45 p.m., on Thursday, May 9, 2019.
Page S2740
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Thurs-
day, May 9, 2019. Page S2749
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 54 yeas to 42 nays (Vote No. EX. 99), Joseph
F. Bianco, of New York, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit. Pages S2707–10
By 79 yeas to 17 nays (Vote No. EX. 100), Kim-
berly A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be President of
the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a
term expiring January 20, 2021. Page S2710
By 72 yeas to 22 nays (Vote No. EX. 101), Spen-
cer Bachus III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States for a term expiring January 20, 2023.
Pages S2710–11
By 77 yeas to 19 nays (Vote No. EX. 102), Judith
DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021.
Page S2711
By 50 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 104), Janet
Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a
term expiring July 1, 2022.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D501
May 8, 2019
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 52 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 103), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2711
Messages from the House: Page S2741
Measures Referred: Page S2741
Executive Communications: Pages S2741–42
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2743–45
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2745–46
Additional Statements: Page S2740
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S2748
Privileges of the Floor: Page S2748
Record Votes: Seven record votes were taken today.
(Total—105) Pages S2710, S2710–11, S2711, S2722, S2723
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 7 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday,
May 9, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S2749.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: CFTC AND SEC
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government concluded a
hearing to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, after receiving testimony
from J. Christopher Giancarlo, Chairman, Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission; and Jay Clay-
ton, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense concluded a hearing to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Department of Defense, after re-
ceiving testimony from Patrick M. Shanahan, Acting
Secretary, and General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr.,
USMC, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, both of the
Department of Defense.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces concluded a hearing to examine the De-
partment of Energy’s atomic defense activities and
programs in review of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020, after receiving testimony
from Lisa E. Gordon-Hagerty, Administrator, and
Admiral James F. Caldwell, Jr., USN, Deputy Ad-
ministrator for Office of Naval Reactors, both of the
National Nuclear Security Administration, and Anne
Marie White, Assistant Secretary for Environmental
Management, all of the Department of Energy.
NEW ENTRANTS IN THE NATIONAL
AIRSPACE
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine new en-
trants in the national airspace, focusing on policy,
technology, and security issues for Congress, after re-
ceiving testimony from Jay Merkle, Director, Un-
manned Aircraft Systems Integration Office, and
Brigadier General Wayne R. Montieth, USAF (Ret.),
Associate Administrator for Commercial Space
Transportation, both of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration, Department of Transportation; Dallas
Brooks, Mississippi State University Raspet Flight
Research Laboratory, Starkville; and Zach Lovering,
Airbus, and Eric Stallmer, Commercial Spaceflight
Federation, both of Washington, D.C.
USACE CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
OVERSIGHT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded an oversight hearing to examine
the Army Corps of Engineers’ Civil Works program,
after receiving testimony from R.D. James, Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, and Major
General Scott Spellmon, Deputy Commanding Gen-
eral for Civil and Emergency Operations, Army
Corps of Engineers, both of the Department of De-
fense; Lynn Budd, Wyoming Office of Homeland Se-
curity, Cheyenne; and Kyle R. Kline, Jr., Louisiana
Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority, Baton
Rouge.
MEDICARE PHYSICIAN PAYMENT REFORM
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine Medicare physician payment reform after
two years, focusing on Medicare Access and CHIP
Reauthorization Act implementation and the road
ahead, after receiving testimony from Barbara L.
McAneny, American Medical Association, and Frank
Opelka, American College of Surgeons, both of Chi-
cago, Illinois; John S. Cullen, American Academy of
Family Physicians, Leawood, Kansas; Scott Hines,
American Medical Group Association, Alexandria,
Virginia; and Matthew Fiedler, Brookings Institu-
tion, Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D502 May 8, 2019
BUDGET: USAID
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the President’s proposed budg-
et request for fiscal year 2020 for the United States
Agency for International Development, after receiv-
ing testimony from Mark Green, Administrator,
United States Agency for International Development.
BUDGET: INDIAN PROGRAMS
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the President’s proposed budget
request for fiscal year 2020 for Indian programs,
after receiving testimony from Tara Sweeney, Assist-
ant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Department of the
Interior; Rear Admiral Chris Buchanan, Deputy Di-
rector, Indian Health Service, Department of Health
and Human Services; and Jefferson Keel, National
Congress of American Indians, and Andrew Joseph,
Jr., National Indian Health Board, both of Wash-
ington, D.C.
SOUTHERN BORDER
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Border
Security and Immigration concluded a hearing to ex-
amine the humanitarian and security crisis at our
southern border, after receiving testimony from Todd
Owen, Executive Assistant Commissioner, Office of
Field Operations, and Carla L. Provost, Chief, Border
Patrol, both of Customs and Border Protection,
Manuel Padilla, Director, Joint Task Force-West,
and Nathalie R. Asher, Acting Executive Associate
Director, Enforcement and Removal Operations, Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement, all of the De-
partment of Homeland Security; and Jonathan H.
Hayes, Director, Office of Refugee Resettlement,
Administration for Children and Families, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services.
OLDER AMERICANS ACT
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the Older Americans Act, focus-
ing on protecting and supporting seniors as they age,
after receiving testimony from Lance Robertson, Ad-
ministrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging, Ad-
ministration for Community Living, Department of
Health and Human Services; Richard Prudom, Flor-
ida Department of Elder Affairs, Tallahassee; Lau-
rence W. Gross, Southern Maine Agency on Aging,
Scarborough; and Faith Lewis, Simpson, Pennsyl-
vania.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 39 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2569–2607; and 4 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 57; and H. Res. 360–362 were introduced.
Pages H3499–H3501
Additional Cosponsors: Page H3503
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative McGovern to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H3479
Recess: The House recessed at 10:27 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H3483
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. Richard B. Kunst, St. James
Catholic Church, Duluth, Minnesota. Page H3483
Congressional-Executive Commission on the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Members on the part of the House to the
Congressional-Executive Commission on the People’s
Republic of China: Representatives Kaptur, Suozzi,
Malinowski, McAdams, Smith (NJ), and Mast.
Page H3485
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Purple Book Continuity Act of 2019: H.R. 1520,
amended, to amend the Public Health Service Act to
provide for the publication of a list of licensed bio-
logical products, by a 2⁄3 recorded vote of 421 ayes
with none answering ‘‘no’’, Roll No. 188;
Pages H3485–86, H3491–92
Orange Book Transparency Act of 2019: H.R.
1503, amended, to amend the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act regarding the list under section
505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 422 yeas with none
answering ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 187; and
Pages H3486–88, H3491
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 4627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D503
May 8, 2019
Advancing Critical Connectivity Expands Serv-
ice, Small Business Resources, Opportunities, Ac-
cess, and Data Based on Assessed Need and De-
mand Act: H.R. 1328, amended, to establish the
Office of Internet Connectivity and Growth.
Pages H3488–90
Recess: The House recessed at 12:48 p.m. and re-
convened at 1:30 p.m. Page H3490
Presidential Messages: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to Syria is to
continue in effect beyond May 11, 2019—referred to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be
printed (H. Doc. 116–30). Page H3497
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress that the national emergency declared
with respect to the Central African Republic is to
continue in effect beyond May 12, 2019—referred to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be
printed (H. Doc. 116–31). Page H3497
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress of his intention to designate Brazil
as a Major Non-NATO Ally—referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed
(H. Doc. 116–32). Page H3497
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress of his Executive Order with respect
to Iran that takes additional steps with respect to
the national emergency declared in Executive Order
12957 of March 15, 1995—referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–33). Pages H3497–98
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H3490.
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H3491 and
H3491–92. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 3:07 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Appropriations: Full Committee held a
markup on the Report on the Suballocation of Budg-
et Allocations for FY 2020; and the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020. The
Report on the Suballocation of Budget Allocations
for FY 2020 passed. The Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, Education, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, was ordered
reported, as amended.
FY20 PRIORITIES FOR MISSILE DEFENSE
AND MISSILE DEFEAT PROGRAMS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces held a hearing entitled ‘‘FY20 Priorities
for Missile Defense and Missile Defeat Programs’’.
Testimony was heard from the following Department
of Defense officials: Robert F. Behler, Director,
Operational Test and Evaluation, Office of the Sec-
retary of Defense; James H. Anderson, Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Strategy, Plans and Capabilities;
General Terrence O’Shaughnessy, Commander, U.S.
Northern Command; Lieutenant General Samuel
Greaves, Director, Missile Defense Agency; and Vice
Admiral David Kriete, Deputy Commander, U.S.
Strategic Command.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 2480, the ‘‘Stronger Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act’’. H.R. 2480
was ordered reported, as amended.
THE PROTECTING THE RIGHT TO
ORGANIZE ACT: DETERRING UNFAIR
LABOR PRACTICES
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Protecting the Right to Orga-
nize Act: Deterring Unfair Labor Practices’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
BAN ASBESTOS NOW: TAKING ACTION TO
SAVE LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Ban Asbestos Now: Taking Action to Save
Lives and Livelihoods’’. Testimony was heard from
Alexandra Dunn, Assistant Administrator, Office of
Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, Environ-
mental Protection Agency; and public witnesses.
OVERSIGHT OF THE FEDERAL TRADE
COMMISSION: STRENGTHENING
PROTECTIONS FOR AMERICANS’ PRIVACY
AND DATA SECURITY
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Federal Trade Commis-
sion: Strengthening Protections for Americans’ Pri-
vacy and Data Security’’. Testimony was heard from
the following Federal Trade Commission officials:
Joseph J. Simons, Chairman; Noah Joshua Phillips,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D504 May 8, 2019
Commissioner; Rohit Chopra, Commissioner; Re-
becca Kelly Slaughter, Commissioner; and Christine
S. Wilson, Commissioner.
A REVIEW OF THE STATE OF AND
BARRIERS TO MINORITY
HOMEOWNERSHIP
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on
Housing, Community Development and Insurance
held a hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of the State of
and Barriers to Minority Homeownership’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee began
a markup on H.R. 1988, the ‘‘Protect Affordable
Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2409,
the ‘‘Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Cre-
ators Act’’; H.R. 2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2514, the ‘‘Coordinating Over-
sight, Upgrading and Innovating Technology, and
Examiner Reform Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2515, to
amend the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to
amend the definition of whistleblower; H.R. 2534,
the ‘‘Insider Trading Prohibition Act of 2019’’; leg-
islation on the Task Force on Financial Technology
Resolution of 2019; and legislation on the Task
Force on Artificial Intelligence Resolution of 2019.
SMART COMPETITION: ADAPTING U.S.
STRATEGY TOWARD CHINA AT 40 YEARS
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Smart Competition: Adapting U.S.
Strategy Toward China at 40 Years’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES IN U.S.
RELATIONS WITH THE GULF STATES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘Opportunities and
Challenges in U.S. Relations with the Gulf States’’.
Testimony was heard from Timothy A. Lenderking,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Arabian Gulf Affairs,
Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State.
CHINA’S GROWING INFLUENCE IN ASIA
AND THE UNITED STATES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘China’s Growing Influence in Asia and the
United States’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
CONFRONTING THE RISE OF DOMESTIC
TERRORISM IN THE HOMELAND
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Confronting the Rise of Domes-
tic Terrorism in the Homeland’’. Testimony was
heard from Michael McGarrity, Assistant Director
for Counterterrorism, Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion; Brian Murphy, Principal Deputy Undersecre-
tary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of
Homeland Security; and Brad Wiegmann, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General, National Security Divi-
sion, Department of Justice.
ELECTION SECURITY
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Election Security’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Jocelyn Benson, Secretary of
State, Michigan; John Merrill, Secretary of State,
Alabama; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on the Committee Report for Resolution
Recommending that the House of Representatives
Find William P. Barr, Attorney General, U.S. De-
partment of Justice, in Contempt of Congress for
Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by
the Committee on the Judiciary. The Committee Re-
port for Resolution Recommending that the House
of Representatives Find William P. Barr, Attorney
General, U.S. Department of Justice, in Contempt of
Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena
Duly Issued by the Committee on the Judiciary was
ordered reported, as amended.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing on H.R.
417, to amend title 18, United States Code, to es-
tablish measures to combat invasive lionfish, and for
other purposes; H.R. 1023, the ‘‘Great Lakes Fishery
Research Authorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1218,
the ‘‘American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act’’;
H.R. 1240, the ‘‘Young Fishermen’s Development
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1314, the ‘‘Integrated Coastal
and Ocean Observation System Act Amendments of
2019’’; H.R. 1979, the ‘‘Driftnet Modernization and
Bycatch Reduction Act’’; H.R. 2189, the ‘‘Digital
Coast Act’’; H.R. 2405, the ‘‘National Sea Grant
College Program Amendments Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2406, the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Commissioned Officer Corps Amend-
ments Act of 2019’’. Testimony was heard from Rear
Admiral Timothy Gallaudet, U.S. Navy (Ret.), As-
sistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and At-
mosphere, Deputy Administrator, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration; and public wit-
nesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D505
May 8, 2019
VETERAN AND ACTIVE-DUTY MILITARY
SUICIDES
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
National Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘Veteran
and Active-Duty Military Suicides’’. Testimony was
heard from Captain Mike Colston, Director, Mental
Health Programs, Department of Defense; Karin
Orvis, Director, Defense Suicide Prevention Office,
Department of Defense; Richard Stone, Executive in
Charge, Veterans Health Administration, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; and public witnesses.
A REVIEW OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE
FOUNDATION FY 2020 BUDGET REQUEST
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Research and Technology held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘A Review of the National Science
Foundation FY 2020 Budget Request’’. Testimony
was heard from France Córdova, Director, National
Science Foundation; and Diane Souvaine, Chair, Na-
tional Science Board.
KEEPING OUR SIGHTS ON MARS: A
REVIEW OF NASA’S DEEP SPACE
EXPLORATION PROGRAMS AND LUNAR
PROPOSAL
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Space and Aeronautics held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Keeping Our Sights on Mars: A Review of
NASA’s Deep Space Exploration Programs and Lunar
Proposal’’. Testimony was heard from William H.
Gerstenmaier, Associate Administrator, Human Ex-
ploration and Operations, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration; Mark Sirangelo, Special As-
sistant to the Administrator, National Aeronautics
and Space Administration; and public witnesses.
HONORING THE NATION’S SMALL
BUSINESS HEROES
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Honoring the Nation’s Small Busi-
ness Heroes’’. Testimony was heard from pubic wit-
nesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Full
Committee held a markup on H.R. 2440, the ‘‘Full
Utilization of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
Act’’; H.R. 1984, the ‘‘DISASTER Act’’; H.R. 2502,
the ‘‘Transparency in Federal Buildings Projects Act
of 2019’’; and General Services Administration Cap-
ital Investment and Leasing Program Resolutions.
H.R. 1984, H.R. 2440, H.R. 2502, and General
Services Administration Capital Investment and
Leasing Program Resolutions were ordered reported,
without amendment.
THE COST OF DOING NOTHING: MARITIME
INFRASTRUCTURE VULNERABILITIES IN
AN EMERGING ARCTIC
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing
Nothing: Maritime Infrastructure Vulnerabilities in
an Emerging Arctic’’. Testimony was heard from
Admiral Charles W. Ray, Vice Commandant, U.S.
Coast Guard; Rear Admiral Shepard M. Smith, Di-
rector, Office of Coast Survey, National Ocean Serv-
ice, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, Department of Commerce; Colonel Phillip J.
Borders, Commander, Alaska District, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 299, the ‘‘Blue Water Navy Viet-
nam Veterans Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2385, to permit
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant
program to conduct cemetery research and produce
educational materials for the Veterans Legacy Pro-
gram; H.R. 1988, the ‘‘Protect Affordable Mortgages
for Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2372, the ‘‘Veterans’ Care
Quality Transparency Act’’; H.R. 2340, the ‘‘FIGHT
Veteran Suicides Act’’; H.R. 2359, the ‘‘Whole Vet-
eran Act’’; H.R. 2333, the ‘‘Support for Suicide Pre-
vention Coordinators Act’’; H.R. 1126, the ‘‘Hon-
oring Veterans Families Act’’; H.R. 2045, the ‘‘VET
OPP Act’’; H.R. 1200, the ‘‘Veterans’ Compensation
Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act’’; H.R. 1199, the
‘‘VA Website Accessibility Act’’; H.R. 95, the
‘‘Homeless Veteran Families Act’’; H.R. 2109, the
‘‘BRAVE Act’’; H.R. 2196, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM
Scholarship program of the Department of Veterans
Affairs; H.R. 2326, the ‘‘Navy SEAL Chief Petty Of-
ficer William Bill Mulder (Ret.) Transition Improve-
ment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2398, the ‘‘Veteran
HOUSE Act’’; H.R. 2399, the ‘‘Home for Our He-
roes Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1812, the ‘‘Vet Center Eli-
gibility Expansion Act’’; and H.R. 1947, to exempt
transfers of funds from Federal agencies to the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs for nonprofit corpora-
tions established under subchapter IV of chapter 73
of such title from certain provisions of the Economy
Act. H.R. 2333, H.R. 1200, H.R. 1199, H.R. 95,
H.R. 2109, H.R. 2196, H.R. 2398, H.R. 2399, and
H.R. 2326 were ordered reported, without amend-
ment. H.R. 299, H.R. 2372, H.R. 2340, H.R.
2359, H.R. 1947, H.R. 1812, H.R. 2385, H.R.
1988, and H.R. 2045 were ordered reported, as
amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D506 May 8, 2019
PAID FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE:
HELPING WORKERS AND EMPLOYERS
SUCCEED
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Paid Family and Medical Leave:
Helping Workers and Employers Succeed’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Suzan LeVine, Commissioner,
Employment Security Department, Washington; and
public witnesses.
FISCAL YEAR 2020 NATIONAL SECURITY
PROGRAM BUDGET REQUEST
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Na-
tional Security Program Budget Request’’. This hear-
ing was closed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
MAY 9, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the
nominations of David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to
be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security, and Emin
Toro, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court, 9:30 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 998, to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to expand support for police officer
family services, stress reduction, and suicide prevention,
S. 1231, to reauthorize the Bulletproof Vest Partnership
Grant Program, S. 1208, to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 with respect to pay-
ments to certain public safety officers who have become
permanently and totally disabled as a result of personal
injuries sustained in the line of duty, S. 1328, to des-
ignate foreign persons who improperly interfere in United
States elections as inadmissible aliens, S. 1321, to amend
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit interference with
voting systems under the Computer Fraud and Abuse
Act, and the nominations of Jeffrey Vincent Brown, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
Texas, Robert J. Colville, and Stephanie L. Haines, both
to be a United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania, Brantley Starr, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, and
Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney
General, Timothy J. Downing, to be United States Attor-
ney for the Western District of Oklahoma, William Trav-
is Brown, Jr., to be United States Marshal for the Middle
District of Louisiana, and Michael Blaine East, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern District of North
Carolina, all of the Department of Justice, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: closed business meeting
to consider pending intelligence matters; to be imme-
diately followed by a closed briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on General
Farm Commodities and Risk Management, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Reviewing the State of the Farm Economy’’, 10
a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, Full Committee, markup on
the Legislative Branch Appropriation Bill, FY 2020; and
the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, 10:30 a.m., 2359
Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Readi-
ness, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Request
for Military Readiness’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Higher Education and Workforce Investment, hearing en-
titled ‘‘The Cost of Non-Completion: Improving Student
Outcomes in Higher Education’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Lowering Prescription Drug
Prices: Deconstructing the Drug Supply Chain’’, 10 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘The Fiscal
Year 2020 DOE Budget’’, 10:15 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 1988, the ‘‘Protect Affordable
Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2409, the
‘‘Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators
Act’’; H.R. 2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2514, the ‘‘Coordinating Oversight, Up-
grading and Innovating Technology, and Examiner Re-
form Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2515, to amend the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 to amend the definition of
whistleblower; H.R. 2534, the ‘‘Insider Trading Prohibi-
tion Act of 2019’’; legislation on the Task Force on Fi-
nancial Technology Resolution of 2019; and legislation
on the Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Resolution of
2019, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Dollar Diplomacy or Debt Trap? Examining
China’s Role in the Western Hemisphere’’, 10 a.m., 2172
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘China’s Expanding Influence
in Europe and Eurasia’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism, hearing entitled ‘‘Chinese and
Russian Influence in the Middle East’’, 1:30 p.m., 2172
Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D507
May 8, 2019
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Emer-
gency Preparedness, Response, and Recovery; and Sub-
committee on Oversight, Management, and Account-
ability, joint hearing entitled ‘‘FEMA Contracting: Re-
viewing Lessons Learned from Past Disasters to Improve
Preparedness’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Subcommittee on Border Security, Facilitation, and
Operations, hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of the FY 2020
Budget Request for U.S. Customs and Border Protection,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services’’, 2 p.m., 310 Can-
non.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Courts, In-
tellectual Property, and the Internet, hearing entitled
‘‘Oversight of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’’, 2
p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘The Long Over-
due Need to Reform the Mining Law of 1872’’, 10 a.m.,
1334 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing entitled ‘‘Wildfire Resilient Commu-
nities’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administration’s Response
to the Drug Crisis, Part II’’, 11 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Achieving the Promise of a Di-
verse STEM Workforce’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Innova-
tion and Workforce Development, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Digital Ecosystem: New Paths to Entrepreneurship’’, 10
a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity; and Subcommittee on Technology
and Modernization, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Examining
Ongoing Forever GI Bill Implementation Efforts’’, 10
a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Understanding the Tax Gap and Taxpayer Non-
compliance’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Subcommittee
on Defense Intelligence and Warfighter Support, hearing
entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Defense Intelligence Agency
and Military Services Budget Request Hearing’’, 9 a.m.,
HVC–304. This hearing is closed.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a closed briefing on issues related to Hungary and
Russia, 12:30 p.m., HVC–301.
Full Committee, to receive a briefing on the state of
institutional resilience and political context for the elec-
tion of Volodymyr Zelenskiy as Ukraine’s next president,
2 p.m., 2200, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D508 May 8, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Thursday, May 9
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Michael H. Park, of New
York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, May 9
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 986—
Protecting Americans with Preexisting Conditions Act of
2019 (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E557
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E560
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E555
Comer, James, Ky., E558
Conaway, K. Michael, Tex., E555
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E558
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E556
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E555
Long, Billy, Mo., E559
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E557
Meadows, Mark, N.C., E560
Mooney, Alexander X., W.Va., E558
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E557, E559
Price, David E., N.C., E558
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E559
Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho, Northern Mariana
Islands, E560
Scott, Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’, Va., E556
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E559
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E556
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E557
Walberg, Tim, Mich., E558
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E556
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 May 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D08MY9.REC D08MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
