Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5731
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JULY 12, 2019 No. 117
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, July 15, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, JULY 12, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
In these most important days and de-
bates here in the people’s House, we
beg You to send Your spirit of wisdom
as the Members struggle to do the
work that has been entrusted to them.
Inspire them to work together with
charity, and join their efforts to ac-
complish what our Nation needs to live
into a prosperous and secure future.
Please keep all the Members of this
Congress and all who work for the peo-
ple’s House in good health, that they
might faithfully fulfill the great re-
sponsibility given them by the people
of this great Nation.
Bless us this day and every day. May
all that is done here be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. STAUBER led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
PROVIDING HEALTHCARE IN
INSULAR AREAS
(Mr. SABLAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, good
news for the Northern Mariana Islands
and all the insular areas: The Terri-
tories Health Care Improvement Act
was introduced on Tuesday, addressing
the Medicaid cliff our areas face when
special ObamaCare funding ends this
year.
Thursday, the Energy and Commerce
Health Subcommittee reported the bill
without dissent. ‘‘Let’s keep it mov-
ing,’’ Chair ESHOO said. I believe full
committee Chairman PALLONE intends
to do so as well.
I thank them both and Ranking
Members BURGESS and WALDEN for un-
derstanding the urgency of the Med-
icaid crisis in the insular areas. I also
thank Mr. SOTO and Mr. BILIRAKIS, who
led the bill along with myself and
seven bipartisan cosponsors.
It provides exactly what the North-
ern Mariana Islands Medicaid director
testified she needed: $60 million per
year. No local match is required as we
recover from last year’s typhoons.
After 6 years, we will get the FMAP
any State is offered.
There are new program integrity re-
quirements that I support because
every Federal dollar should go to those
intended, without fraud or waste.
So, healthcare in the insular areas
can be as good as healthcare anywhere
in America. That is good news.
f
RECOGNIZING INDEPENDENCE DAY
AND PRESERVATION OF FREEDOM
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, last week, my wife,
Penny, and I honored those who make
Independence Day possible by attend-
ing our son Logan’s reenlistment and
promotion to Army sergeant first class
at Fort Drum, New York.
This occasion reminded me that our
independence relies upon the vigilance
of our citizens and those who have
fought to defend our freedoms.
Regarding Independence Day, John
Adams wrote to his wife, Abigail: ‘‘It
ought to be commemorated as the day
of deliverance by solemn acts of devo-
tion to God Almighty. It ought to be
solemnized with pomp and parade, with
shews, games, sports, guns, bells, bon-
fires, and illuminations from one end
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.000 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5732 July 12, 2019
of this continent to the other from this
time forward forevermore.’’
Following the Constitutional Con-
vention, Benjamin Franklin was asked
what sort of government the delegates
had created. Without hesitation, he re-
sponded, ‘‘A republic, if you can keep
it.’’
President Reagan aptly stated that
freedom isn’t something passed to our
children in the bloodstream.
Preserving our freedom is certainly a
responsibility of this generation as any
past.
Madam Speaker, I commend those
who continue to make these freedoms
possible, and I look forward to a future
where these freedoms will be defended
for generations to come.
f
DEFEND AGAINST ATTEMPTS TO
OVERTURN ACA PROTECTIONS
(Ms. UNDERWOOD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Speaker,
currently, 20 Republican-led States are
suing to overturn the Affordable Care
Act and the protections that it pro-
vides.
Rather than defend the law, the
Trump administration is siding with
these States and arguing the entire law
should be overturned. This is an attack
on every single American with a pre-
existing condition, including 300,000
people in Illinois’ 14th Congressional
District.
If the ACA is overturned, insurers
will, once again, have the power to
refuse coverage to people with pre-
existing conditions, like cancer, asth-
ma, heart conditions, and diabetes.
This is a fear for many of my con-
stituents, including Mike DeBow of
Shorewood, Illinois, who was diagnosed
with type 1 diabetes at a young age.
Mike wrote to me because he is ‘‘death-
ly afraid’’—his words—of losing his in-
surance.
Under the ACA, Mike doesn’t have to
worry about being denied coverage for
his preexisting condition. He can even
stay on his parents’ plan until he turns
26. But if the Republicans’ lawsuit suc-
ceeds, 130 million Americans with pre-
existing conditions, including Mike,
won’t have that peace of mind.
I am proud that my first vote in Con-
gress was to protect the ACA by de-
fending it in court so that Americans
like Mike can focus on leading ful-
filling lives, not whether their
healthcare needs are covered.
f
TRIBUTE TO ROSS PEROT
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Madam Speaker,
this week, Texas lost a son and Amer-
ica lost one of our finest patriots. Ross
Perot was a leader, risk-taker, and a
businessman who embodied the mean-
ing of the American Dream.
Growing up in east Texas in what
could be described as extreme poverty,
Perot sought to make a difference in
the lives of many, and he did just that.
He was a leading example of the great
things that can happen in this great
country.
He left his home to serve our country
in the U.S. Navy and later returned to
grow his family and build his business
empire. He was a self-made man who
always remembered his humble begin-
nings, graciously giving time and re-
sources to causes in both our Texas
community and around the world.
He especially loved our men and
women in uniform and was one of the
first to speak out and do something
about the treatment of our POWs.
Perot also long warned us about the
dangers of our growing national debt
and sought to make politics and the
economy less complicated.
Remember that he would say, ‘‘It’s
just that simple.’’
Throughout his life, he prioritized
love of his family and his country. We
will all remember his service to our
Nation and his fun and feisty spirit.
May we all say a prayer for his wife,
children, and grandchildren and cele-
brate the life of this amazing man.
God bless Ross Perot. God bless his
family. And God bless our country.
f
INVESTING IN NATIONAL
SECURITY
(Mrs. BUSTOS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the National De-
fense Authorization Act.
Just this week, I returned from a bi-
partisan congressional mission to the
Middle East that underscored the im-
portance of investing in our national
security and, of course, in our men and
women in uniform.
This year’s bill is the most robust
military authorization in the history
of our country and includes a much-
needed pay raise for our troops.
I was also proud to add support for
the Rock Island Arsenal, which is in
my district and has supported our men
and women in the military going all
the way back to the days of the Civil
War.
My amendment would allow Army
arsenals to approve leases for
underused space and would require the
Army to study how they can better
market available space on military in-
stallations.
The House also approved my amend-
ment to expand important leasing pro-
tections for Gold Star spouses and in-
jured servicemembers.
Finally, I amended this bill to recog-
nize cadet nurses as honorary veterans
for their patriotic service in World War
II.
That is why today I will proudly cast
a ‘‘yes’’ vote for this National Defense
Authorization Act.
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MARIAN SPENCER
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise
to honor the life and legacy of a Cin-
cinnati legend and civil rights icon,
Marian Spencer.
Ms. Spencer passed away Tuesday at
the age of 99. She dedicated her life to
shaping the community that she loved,
Cincinnati, for the better.
Among her many accomplishments,
in 1961, she successfully led the effort
to integrate Coney Island, Cincinnati’s
premier amusement park at the time.
She was also a pioneer in Cincinnati
politics, becoming the first woman to
lead the local NAACP and the first Af-
rican American woman elected to the
Cincinnati City Council.
Over the years, I had the good for-
tune to get to know Marian Spencer
and learn from her experiences. We
both served on the city council back in
the 1980s, and she was never shy about
sharing her opinions with me. I grew to
respect her toughness, her honesty, and
her conviction.
Madam Speaker, Cincinnati lost an
exceptional leader on Tuesday, but
Marian Spencer’s legacy will endure
for generations to come.
f
SUPPORT DEMOCRATS’ AGENDA
TO LOWER HEALTHCARE COSTS
(Mr. KILDEE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, this
week, the Trump administration is in
court, arguing before the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals to strike down the Af-
fordable Care Act, including taking
away coverage for people with pre-
existing health conditions. If the Presi-
dent gets his way, tens of millions of
Americans lose their health insurance,
including a lot of people I represent in
Michigan.
For the 130 million Americans with
preexisting conditions, insurance com-
panies would then again be able to dis-
criminate against them and deny them
coverage.
That is what happens if the Trump
administration prevails. If they gut the
ACA, caps on annual and lifetime cov-
erage could come back again, and
800,000 Michiganders will lose coverage.
While the President and his followers
seek to roll back to those days when
people could be denied coverage be-
cause they are sick—think about that,
denied coverage because you are sick—
we are fighting to continue to bring
down the cost of healthcare. We have
an agenda that is for the people to re-
duce the cost of healthcare and make
sure no American has that fear.
f
b 0915
CONCERN ABOUT NDAA
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.002 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5733
July 12, 2019
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to express grave concern with
the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
Every year, Congress is tasked with
funding our military. These funds do
everything from feeding our troops to
equipping them for combat, to giving
them and their families medical care.
Because this funding is of such vital
importance for our troops and our na-
tional security, these bills normally
pass through Congress with wide bipar-
tisan support.
However, despite the President, sen-
ior military officials, and a bipartisan
Senate all agreeing on a funding level,
House leadership has proposed a bill $15
billion less than what experts say is re-
quired.
This bill represents one of the worst
political games I have seen in this
House. It puts our servicemembers at
risk and leaves our entire Nation vul-
nerable by underfunding personnel ac-
counts, vital modernization initiatives,
and deterrence against foreign aggres-
sion.
I call upon this House to follow us in
this lead to set aside our differences
and authorize these programs at the
levels needed to protect our troops and
our Nation.
f
EQUAL PAY FOR THE WOMEN’S
NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM
(Ms. HAALAND asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. HAALAND. Madam Speaker, I
stand in support of equal pay for equal
work and in celebration of the women’s
national soccer team.
The team’s World Cup victory high-
lighted a stark reality: There is still
work to be done to ensure equal pay for
the same work.
Last week, my colleagues and I in
the Democratic Women’s Caucus wrote
to the U.S. Soccer Federation with a
simple argument: Our most successful
U.S. soccer team in history deserves
equal pay.
The work of the women soccer play-
ers, coaches, and staff should not be
worth less simply because they are
women.
The women’s soccer team is inspiring
young girls everywhere to dream big.
We must make sure those girls don’t
have to worry about equal pay. You
shouldn’t have to be a record-breaking
world champion to get the same pay as
your male counterparts.
As Megan Rapinoe said at the victory
parade on Wednesday, ‘‘We have to be
better.’’
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF TIMOTHY
MCDONALD AND DEB SCHOTT
(Mr. STAUBER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in remembrance of Timothy
McDonald and Deb Schott, who both
tragically perished in a helicopter
crash at the Brainerd airport last
month.
Both Timothy and Deb dedicated
their lives to helping others. Timothy
was a medical pilot for North Memo-
rial’s Air Care Unit and had previously
served in the United States Army. He
did two tours in Iraq. Deb was an emer-
gency flight nurse for North Memo-
rial’s Air Care Unit. She had worked in
the medical field since she was 19 years
old.
Timothy and Deb both had out-
standing reputations in their respec-
tive fields and were both beloved by
their coworkers. My thoughts and
prayers are with their loved ones.
Madam Speaker, our first responders
are often the first on the scene, ready
to help in times of crisis. We must
never take the work they do or the sac-
rifices they make for granted.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and insert extraneous
material on H.R. 2500.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. KIL-
DEE). Is there objection to the request
of the gentleman from Washington?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 476 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2500.
Will the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM) kindly take
the chair.
b 0919
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2500) to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities
of the Department of Defense and for
military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes,
with Ms. MCCOLLUM (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole House rose on
Thursday, July 11, 2019, a request for a
recorded vote on amendment No. 430
printed in part B of House Report 116–
143 offered by the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ) had
been postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 437 OFFERED BY MR. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 437 printed
in part B of House Report 116–143.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, insert
the following:
SEC. 10ll. PROHIBITION ON USE OF DOD EQUIP-
MENT, PERSONNEL, AND FACILITIES
FOR ICE DETENTION.
No facilities, equipment, or personnel of
the Department of Defense may be used to
house or construct any housing for any for-
eign nationals who are in the custody of and
detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 476, the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
My amendment, Madam Chair, would
prohibit any Department of Defense re-
sources from being used to allow Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement to
expand its detention capacity.
The fiscal year 2019 appropriations
bill for the Department of Homeland
Security allows for 40,520 detention
beds for ICE, which is the highest
amount Congress has ever provided.
Despite this historic capacity, ICE con-
tinues to exceed this detention capac-
ity and currently has more than 52,000
migrants in detention—a record high.
In fact, ICE has exceeded its detention
bed capacity for multiple fiscal years
in a row.
To pay for this excess, ICE has, in
the past, turned to Congress for more
funding or siphoned off funds from
other components in DHS. In 2018,
when ICE went beyond its detention
bed limit, it took almost $200 million
from U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Coast Guard, TSA, FEMA,
and ICE criminal investigations.
ICE continually expands beyond its
means and then expects to be bailed
out. This cannot go on.
ICE needs to operate within its ap-
propriated limits and make more stra-
tegic decisions about whom to detain.
ICE should prioritize detaining mi-
grants who pose a serious threat to our
society as well as those who will not be
deported unless they are detained.
ICE cannot be given a blank check.
Madam Chair, my amendment restricts
defense resources from being used for
ICE detention.
We have already seen President
Trump defy the will of Congress on bor-
der wall funding. When Congress re-
fused to fund this ineffective and
wasteful border wall, he decided to
take money away from other depart-
ments to build his wall, and his prime
funder was the Department of Defense.
Madam Chair, I hope you will join me
in preventing the Department of De-
fense’s funding from being used as
President Trump’s personal piggy bank
to circumvent the will of Congress. I
urge my House colleagues to support
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.004 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5734 July 12, 2019
this amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Texas is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
have only myself to speak, so I reserve
the balance of time to close.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
ICE continually overspends on deten-
tion and doesn’t face any consequences.
Not only are they holding on to more
people than ever before, they are doing
so when there are alternatives to de-
tention that have proven to be reliable
and effective.
On average, it has cost $130 for ICE to
detain an adult a day. One person in
family detention costs $319 a day. Al-
ternatives to detention cost less than
$20 a day, and that includes services to
help them understand our immigration
system and show up for court hearings.
I would note that Congress recently
appropriated more money for ICE to
use these alternatives to detention for
migrants who do not pose a threat or
have criminal backgrounds.
ICE needs to operate responsibly, and
that includes following a budget. The
Trump administration cannot be al-
lowed to turn to the Department of De-
fense every time it has a new demand.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, we had a number of
these debates last night as far as DOD
resources in supporting the ICE mis-
sion at the border.
I might note, parenthetically, no Re-
publican amendments on this issue
were made in order under the rule, only
Democratic amendments.
But, on the substance of the matter,
I completely agree with, I think, the
sentiments of the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. THOMPSON) in that I would
prefer not one dollar—or one person—
from DOD have to be sent to the border
to support the ICE mission. We ought
to fully fund border security on its
own, because we have enough issues
with broader national security for the
Pentagon and the military to deal
with.
Unfortunately, that is not possible
when we don’t fully fund ICE and when
we have an unprecedented situation at
the border. Border Patrol stations are
at a breaking point. They have been
over capacity for nearly all of 2019.
DHS has already apprehended more
than 390,000 illegal immigrant members
in 2019, which is more than triple the
amount of the year before.
So we have triple the number of mi-
grants, we don’t fully fund border secu-
rity and ICE, and now this amendment
says we also can’t use DOD resources
to back up.
So what is the result? The result is
either one of two things: You have this
humanitarian crisis that appalls us all
because the resources have not been
put on the border to take care of these
people and process them appropriately,
or you just give up border security and
you just have open borders and let any-
thing and anybody who wants to come
in, come in.
Those are the alternatives if you
don’t provide the resources at the bor-
der that are needed.
Again, my preference is DOD doesn’t
do any of this. DOD has its hands full.
But if you don’t fully fund ICE com-
mensurate with the number of people,
the situation they have got to deal
with on the ground, triple the number
of migrants, if you don’t fund them to
deal with that situation, then that is
where DOD gets called in as backup
and support.
As Ranking Member ROGERS men-
tioned last night, there are no ICE de-
tainees in DOD facilities right now. I
hope that there are not. Again, DOD
has its own mission.
But you create the problem if you
don’t fund ICE. If you say you can’t use
DOD or anything else, then what hap-
pens? You have a humanitarian crisis.
I think that we need to do better.
This Congress needs to do better on the
whole issue of border security. That
will benefit the migrants that we are
talking about; that will benefit DOD;
and that will benefit the country.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Mississippi (Mr. THOMP-
SON).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi will be
postponed.
b 0930
AMENDMENT NO. 438 OFFERED BY MR.
MALINOWSKI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 438 printed
in part B of House Report 116–143.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following new section:
SEC. l. PROHIBITION ON EXPORT OF AIR TO
GROUND MUNITIONS, RELATED
COMPONENTS AND PARTS OF SUCH
MUNITIONS, AND RELATED SERV-
ICES TO SAUDI ARABIA AND THE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—For the one-year period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act, the President may not issue any li-
cense, and shall suspend any license or other
approval that was issued before the date of
the enactment of this Act, for the export to
the Government of Saudi Arabia or the Gov-
ernment of the United Arab Emirates of any
air to ground munitions, related components
and parts of such munitions, and related
services.
(b) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
prohibition in subsection (a) for any instance
of license denial or suspension that shall re-
sult in a cost to the Federal Government.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 476, the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Chair, let
me begin by saying what this amend-
ment will not do.
It will not end our security relation-
ship with Saudi Arabia. It will not pre-
vent us from helping the Saudis defend
themselves against the Houthis or Iran
or anybody else. It won’t prevent us
from working with them to deal with
maritime threats in the Persian Gulf
or from sharing intelligence about ter-
rorism.
It will not, in other words, preclude
us from doing anything that is in
America’s national security interest.
All it will do is stop something that
is categorically harmful to our na-
tional interest: the provision of offen-
sive weapons that enable Saudi Arabia
to keep defying our advice by bombing
Yemen and prolonging the war there.
There is a reason why people say that
this war has caused the world’s worst
humanitarian crisis. More than 200,000
civilians have been killed or died of
starvation.
While the Houthis are to blame for
much of this, Saudi and UAE airstrikes
are responsible for two-thirds of Yem-
eni civilian casualties.
There was a strike on a funeral where
more than 150 civilians were killed, a
strike on a school bus that killed 40
kids, on a Save the Children Hospital,
on a wedding.
These were not mistakes. These were
deliberate and precise attacks. And ev-
erybody in Yemen knows that the
bombs causing the suffering are made
in the United States.
Who benefits from this? Certainly
not us. From a strategic perspective,
the only winner is Iran. By making a
relatively small investment in Yemen,
the Iranians have drawn the Saudis
into this quagmire which tarnishes
them and the United States and pushes
Yemenis into Iranian hands.
Over two administrations, the U.S.
Government has tried to use its influ-
ence to change how Saudi Arabia fights
this war. I know about this effort be-
cause I was in charge of it in 2015 and
2016 at the State Department. It was
worth a try then, but the Saudis did
not listen to us.
Under both the Obama and Trump
administrations, we have given the
Saudis specific lists of targets not to
strike. We have told them: Do not hit
this specific hospital or this port facil-
ity or that bridge. And then, repeat-
edly, they have gone ahead and hit the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.006 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5735
July 12, 2019
precise coordinates on our no-strike
list.
And then we just keep on selling
them the bombs.
What does that say to the people of
Yemen? What does it say to the leader-
ship of Saudi Arabia?
Now, I know some have argued that,
if we want to protect civilians in
Yemen, it is better to at least make
sure the Saudis have precision muni-
tions to help them avoid collateral
damage. This argument does not make
sense. The Saudis are using our preci-
sion weapons to precisely hit the wrong
targets.
Others have said that, if we don’t
help the Saudis, the Russians or the
Chinese will. That is nonsense. The
Saudis use American aircraft. Last I
checked, you cannot service an F–15
with MIG parts. They are, for the fore-
seeable future, utterly dependent on
us.
The question we have to decide is:
What kind of relationship are we going
to have with Saudi Arabia? Is it one in
which the Saudis can do whatever they
please, contrary to our advice, con-
trary to our interests, knowing that,
whatever they do to us, we will take it
on ourselves to save the relationship?
Or will we finally recognize that, while
we benefit from working with Saudi
Arabia, the Saudis need us far more?
This is a measured amendment,
Madam Chair, that deals with precisely
the Saudi conduct that we most op-
pose, without undermining our ability
to cooperate with Saudi Arabia on
other issues. I urge my colleagues to
support it, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Missouri is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the gentleman from
New Jersey’s amendment, which would
ban sales of all air-to-ground muni-
tions to Saudi Arabia and UAE for a
period of 1 year.
The gentleman and I have worked to-
gether on many human rights issues,
including on legislation that would
hold Saudi Arabia accountable for the
killing of Jamal Khashoggi, and I share
the gentleman’s concern for the Saudi-
led coalition’s record on human rights.
But, while I understand the gentle-
man’s amendment is intended to ad-
dress concerns about the Yemen con-
flict, which I share, this amendment is
not the correct approach to do so.
Rather than provide clear conditions
and benchmarks regarding our stra-
tegic partners’ wartime conduct, the
effect of this amendment would simply
slam the door.
Disengaging will not help us end the
war in Yemen, nor will it help us con-
tain Iran’s malign influence.
Iran is backing Houthi rebels in
Yemen, who toppled the internation-
ally recognized government in Yemen
and began a bloody civil war that has
roiled the region since 2015.
Iran has helped the Houthis target ci-
vilian infrastructure in Saudi Arabia,
and on June 6, Iran-backed Houthi
rebels in Yemen shot down a U.S. MQ–
9 Reaper drone using an Iranian—an
Iranian—surface-to-air missile.
U.S. Central Command said the at-
tack was ‘‘enabled by Iranian assist-
ance.’’
Iran’s increasingly reckless and ag-
gressive behavior is deeply concerning.
Saudi Arabia and the UAE are on the
front lines of the struggle to contain
Iran.
As partners like Saudi Arabia con-
tinue to endure Houthi attacks on ci-
vilian targets, we need a tailored ap-
proach that helps our partners protect
their national security while mini-
mizing casualties.
This amendment is not tailored, and
it will not make the Arabian peninsula
safer.
Madam Chair, I urge Members to op-
pose this amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Chair, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Washington (Mr. SMITH).
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman for offer-
ing this amendment.
I do agree with the opponent on this
issue, that we have tried to hold Saudi
Arabia accountable. As the gentleman
mentioned, we have countlessly showed
them how to better target.
We have tried various things legisla-
tively. We have introduced legislation.
We have done a bunch of different
things to try to say we don’t like what
Saudi Arabia is doing.
But we have never actually done any
of it, because the Trump administra-
tion has decided—and, as the gen-
tleman points out, it wasn’t just the
Trump administration—that we are ba-
sically all in on Saudi Arabia. We are
simply going to support them no mat-
ter what.
The murder of Jamal Khashoggi was
appalling, and the fact that Saudi Ara-
bia felt that they could do it and get
away with it is the most alarming
thing. Well, it is not the most alarming
thing. The thing that is more alarming
is they were right.
They figured that this administra-
tion would do nothing, just like as they
bombed the schoolbus, as they bombed
the funeral, as they bombed all of those
civilian targets. As many times as we
told them that we didn’t want them to
do that, they knew there would be no
consequences, that, at the end of the
day, the U.S. was not going to hold
them accountable for that.
And the consequences are grave. As
the gentleman points out, it actually
empowers Iran because it sends a mes-
sage to the world that we are willing to
bomb and kill civilians and participate,
however good intentioned, in what has
become the largest humanitarian crisis
in the world.
And it drives people into terrorists’
arms because, yes, Iran is a problem,
but ISIS and al-Qaida, I would submit
to you, are a larger problem.
And they use this. They use our blind
support for Saudi Arabia and for this
war in Yemen against us.
Madam Chair, this is a good amend-
ment, and I urge its adoption.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, the
last few months has seen Iran per-
petrate a series of provocative actions
against the U.S. and its regional part-
ners:
On May 15, armed drones struck two
Saudi oilfields, resulting in the ordered
departure of nonessential personnel
from U.S. Embassy Baghdad and the
General Consulate Erbil;
On May 16, the head of the Quds
Force called on the terror groups to
prepare for a proxy war;
Armed drones launched by the
Houthis have repeatedly attacked a ci-
vilian airport in Saudi Arabia;
On June 19, Iran shot down U.S. mili-
tary assets over international waters;
And, just yesterday, the British Navy
prevented three Iranian parliamentary
vessels from impeding the passage of a
British oil tanker transiting the Strait
of Hormuz.
This is not the time to walk away
from our strategic allies. We share a
common threat. We must be certain
that they are equipped with the tools
they need to defend their national se-
curity and to work with us in coun-
tering common threats that destabilize
this region.
I firmly believe the United States
can support our strategic allies while
also insisting that they prosecute the
war in Yemen more responsibly.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to oppose this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr.
MALINOWSKI).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 440 OFFERED BY MRS. DINGELL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 440 printed
in part B of House Report 116–143.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of subtitle B of title III, insert
the following:
SEC. 3ll. DESIGNATION AS HAZARDOUS SUB-
STANCES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency shall
designate all per- and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances as hazardous substances under sec-
tion 102(a) of the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9602(a)).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.009 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5736 July 12, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 476, the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I would like to first
thank Chairman SMITH and the House
Armed Services Committee for all
their good work crafting the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020.
This is a strong bill. It includes many
top priorities that will care for our
servicemembers and keep the United
States well defended, including serious
provisions to address PFAS chemical
contamination, which is a serious
threat at too many of our military
bases. PFAS chemicals are manmade
and harmful to human health and our
environment.
Developed in the 1940s, PFAS can be
found across multiple industries and
all around us in many of our commu-
nities. PFAS contamination is wide-
spread. It is in red States; it is in blue
States, in small water systems, in
large ones, on military sites, and in
residential communities.
Recently, experts with the Environ-
mental Working Group have identified
712 sites in 49 States that have some
level of PFAS contamination, and most
are not being cleaned up. These sites
are associated with drinking water sys-
tems serving about 19 million people,
and the number of sites is expected to
grow across the country because States
are just beginning to test for these
chemicals.
The Environmental Working Group
has also identified 219 military-specific
sites that have PFAS contamination
because—and, at the time, it is what
existed—PFAS firefighting foams were
used. Yet, in many States—my home
State of Michigan included—cleanup of
these sites is not happening.
Unfortunately, the military is part of
that problem. They are arguing that,
in these communities, they don’t have
to clean up the PFAS contamination
because the Superfund law does not re-
quire them to do so.
In May of 2018, the then-EPA Admin-
istrator Scott Pruitt proudly an-
nounced that EPA would propose desig-
nating PFOA and PFOS as hazardous
substances under the Superfund law.
Under EPA Administrator Wheeler’s
leadership, EPA hasn’t even issued a
proposed rulemaking, let alone final-
ized an action. At this rate, it will be
at least another year—at least—and
probably longer before this vital step is
taken.
Americans deserve better. Congress
needs to act, and this amendment
would be a meaningful step forward.
It is clear. PFAS chemicals are haz-
ardous, and it is time these chemicals
are properly designated as hazardous
substances.
Our amendment would simply require
the EPA to list PFAS chemicals—in-
cluding PFOA, PFOS, GenX, and many
other harmful chemicals—as hazardous
substances under the EPA’s Superfund
cleanup program within 1 year.
b 0945
Designating this will jump-start the
cleanup process at military facilities,
which is needed, and in communities
across this country; and that is why it
is imperative that this amendment be
included.
I am proud to have offered this
amendment, and I thank all who have
supported this approach and make this
possible for us to consider today.
Today, we have a real opportunity to
help accelerate the cleanup process
wherever PFAS contamination exists
and protect the health of all Ameri-
cans, and our servicemen and women,
and the environment, now and for fu-
ture generations. I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. KIL-
DEE), who I have been proud to work
with on this.
Mr. KILDEE. Madam Chair, I thank
my colleague for her leadership on this
issue, and for yielding.
This amendment is really simple. It
requires polluters who have contami-
nated drinking water with PFAS
chemicals to clean it up. The amend-
ment has the support of the Armed
Services Committee and the Energy
and Commerce Committee, and I thank
the chairs of those committees for
their help.
It also has the support of the Inter-
national Association of Firefighters
and the National Farmers Union be-
cause they know how important it is to
clean up PFAS.
Communities like the community of
Oscoda, in the northern part of my dis-
trict, have waited too long for the De-
fense Department to act. This is a step
toward getting these dangerous chemi-
cals out of the ground and out of our
groundwater.
I do understand that some groups are
concerned about this amendment, utili-
ties and airports. We pledge to work
with them as this legislation moves
through conference to make sure that
we deal with the concerns that they
raise.
But this is simple. This says that we
are going to protect public health.
Every day that we fail to act, the cost
of PFAS cleanup just gets more expen-
sive.
I encourage my colleagues to support
this important amendment and to sup-
port the underlying bill.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Chair, I claim
time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Chair, this
amendment is anything but simple. It
is highly complex. Per- and
polyfluorinated compounds, there are
probably 5,000 different permutations,
and my colleagues act like it is one
formulation; and it is multiple.
So what they want to do is, in es-
sence, do a de facto ban by claiming a
class of 5,000 chemicals as qualified for
toxic and in the Superfund; and that is
a de facto ban of all these applications.
We are all going to fly home tonight.
We are going to close the door to the
plane. We are going to have this seal,
and this seal is what is used to pro-
tect—the seal around the airplane
door—us, so we don’t get sucked out.
Banned, toxic Superfund.
No one disputes our colleagues’ con-
cerns and maybe my concern about
former installations, current installa-
tions, and water in ditches from fire-
fighting foam. So let’s deal with that
issue.
Let’s not do what this amendment
and other amendments will do which is
throw the proverbial baby out with the
bathwater.
So what do we use some of these for-
mulations of per-and polyfluorinated
compounds—again, some 5,000—for? We
use it to save the lives of people.
Here is a stent, which are in millions
of people. PFAS banned, de facto
banned, because it falls under a Super-
fund. No one is going to make them be-
cause they don’t want to be held le-
gally liable if this stent eventually
goes into a landfill. So we don’t need
that anymore.
More kids than I know are born with
a hole in their heart. So what is the
chemical compound that helps plug the
hole, so these children can grow and
mature? Oh, it is a PFAS-formulated
compound. So let’s have a de facto ban
on this device.
Remember, these medical devices are
approved by our Food and Drug Admin-
istration. They say they are safe to be
inserted into the human body. So why
would we then say, if it is safe to be in-
serted into the human body, these med-
ical devices are now going to be unsafe
in a landfill, and then you have a
Superfund act and, again, a de facto
ban?
This shouldn’t be in this debate. I
have great respect for the chairman
and the ranking member, but this is a
National Defense Authorization Act. It
is not an Energy and Commerce Envi-
ronment and Climate Change Sub-
committee act; and I hope we will take
that up.
EPA deals with toxicologists, analyt-
ical chemists, organic chemists, epi-
demiologists, chemical biologists, ma-
terial scientists, theoretical chemists.
Those are the ones who are going to
help us decide which of the 5,000 per-
mutations of PFAS are actually good
and which ones are actually harmful.
But this says they are all bad. It is
like—my folks don’t want me to use
this example. It is like saying, an or-
ange is bad. Let’s ban all fruit.
Okay. No, we are going to take the
peeling of a banana and throw it in a
dump. Oh, no, that is going to be a
toxic dump under Superfund, and no
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.012 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5737
July 12, 2019
one is going to have and harvest ba-
nanas anymore. That is just ridiculous.
It is moved by emotion. We under-
stand that. It is moved by real prob-
lems and groundwater contamination.
We are not against that.
My plea is, let’s use the committee
process, and help you and help me and
these other communities affect change
and provide safe drinking water to our
communities.
We have got the water communities
who are afraid of this amendment.
They are afraid of this amendment be-
cause of previous practices, and then
them falling under Superfund liability,
and then having to raise rates based
upon providing sludge to farmers who
put it on their ground, and then they
get held up in this Superfund trap.
So I have all the waterway councils,
all the water works, the municipal
utilities that are saying, this is not the
way to go to ban a whole class, and this
is going to put us on the hook, and it
is going to raise water rates.
I also have a list of 20 or so manufac-
turing sectors. They said, let’s clean up
the water. Let’s not ban a whole class.
JULY 11, 2019.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES: We, the undersigned asso-
ciations, believe that Congress should act to
address contamination associated with per-
and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in a
manner that prioritizes cleanups over bu-
reaucracy. For this reason, we oppose
Amendment 440 offered by Reps. Kildee and
Dingell, and Amendment 48, offered by Rep.
Pappas, to H.R. 2500, the ‘‘National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.’’
PFAS are a large and diverse class of
chemicals with unique properties that have
been used in a broad number of beneficial ap-
plications for decades. Heightened attention
to potential health effects of certain PFAS
chemicals has understandably led to in-
creased public concern and interest in new
regulatory protections in this area.
We support action to address these con-
cerns, and are committed to proactively
working with Congress, regulators, and other
stakeholders to establish risk-based stand-
ards for PFAS that protect human health
and the environment.
We applaud the leadership of Reps. Kildee,
Dingell, and Pappas for pushing Congress to
address PFAS contamination. Amendments
440 and 48, however well-intentioned, are un-
productive approaches to expeditiously ad-
dress PFAS contamination.
Amendment 440 would require the Environ-
mental Protection Agency (EPA) to des-
ignate all PFAS as hazardous substances
under the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act
(CERCLA), or Superfund, within one year.
Similarly, Amendment 48 would require EPA
to add all PFAS to the list of toxic pollut-
ants regulated by the Clean Water Act and
establish effluent and pretreatment stand-
ards, which could trigger ‘‘back door’’
CERCLA designations.
CERCLA listing decisions are not political
questions that Congress is best positioned to
address. EPA should retain its traditional
authority to study potentially hazardous
substances and to ascertain whether they
should be designated under CERCLA. The
Superfund program has a strong track
record, and EPA’s career scientists have the
requisite expertise to examine PFAS.
Moreover, Amendments 440 and 48 would
likely lead to slower cleanups because of an
overwhelmed EPA and the potentially need-
less reopening of vast amounts of remediated
sites. Such an approach could also under-
mine the nascent progress towards clean up
at some of the prevalent, known contami-
nated sites.
We are disappointed that an amendment
proposed by Rep. Fitzpatrick, with Reps.
Boyle, Upton, McKinley, Rouda, and Blunt
Rochester, will not come up for a vote in the
House. The approach of this bipartisan
amendment, which mirrors provisions of the
defense authorization bill passed by the full
Senate, would have encouraged the develop-
ment of a consistent approach and clear
timelines for assessing and regulating spe-
cific PFAS across all relevant federal agen-
cies to ensure that government regulations,
actions, and communications are consistent
and coordinated for maximum effectiveness.
Congress’s goal should be to create conditions
for cleanups to occur as expeditiously as prac-
ticable. While we oppose Amendments 440 and
48, we applaud the work of the amendments’
sponsors and the other leaders of PFAS
issues in both parties for their important
contributions. We look forward to working
with you on this important matter as the
legislative process continues.
Sincerely,
Airlines for America; Airports Council
International—North America; Alli-
ance of Automobile Manufacturers;
American Chemistry Council; Amer-
ican Forest & Paper Association; Coun-
cil of Industrial Boiler Owners; Flexi-
ble Packaging Association; Inter-
national Liquid Terminals Association;
National Association of Chemical Dis-
tributors; Plastics Industry Associa-
tion; Petroleum Marketers Association
of America; Society of Chemical Manu-
facturers and Affiliates; TRSA, the
Linen, Uniform, and Facility Services
Association; U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Michigan (Mrs. DIN-
GELL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 441 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 441 printed
in part B of House Report 116–143.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following new section:
SEC. 10ll. INDEPENDENT STUDIES REGARDING
POTENTIAL COST SAVINGS WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE NUCLEAR SECURITY
ENTERPRISE AND FORCE STRUC-
TURE.
(a) COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than Decem-
ber 1, 2020, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees a report con-
taining cost analyses with respect to each of
the following:
(A) Options for reducing the nuclear secu-
rity enterprise (as defined by section 4002 of
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2501)).
(B) Options for reductions in service con-
tracts.
(C) Options for rebalancing force structure,
including reductions in special operations
forces, the ancillary effects of such options,
and the impacts of changing the force mix
between active and reserve components.
(D) Options for reducing or realigning over-
seas military presence.
(E) Options for the use of pre-award audits
to negotiate better prices for weapon sys-
tems and services.
(F) Options for replacing some military
personnel with civilian employees.
(2) FORM.—The report under paragraph (1)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may contain a classified annex with respect
to the matters specified in subparagraphs (A)
and (C) of such paragraph.
(b) FFRDC STUDIES.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall seek to enter into agreements
with federally funded research and develop-
ment centers to conduct the following stud-
ies:
(A) A study of the cost savings resulting
from changes in force structure, active and
reserve component balance, basing, and
other impacts resulting from potential chal-
lenges to foundational planning assump-
tions.
(B) A study of the cost savings resulting
from the adoption of alternatives to the cur-
rent nuclear deterrence posture of the
United States.
(C) A study of the cost savings of alter-
natives to current force structures.
(2) DETAIL REQUIRED.—The Secretary shall
ensure that each study under paragraph (1)
has a level of detail sufficient to allow the
Director of the Congressional Budget Office
to analyze the costs described in such stud-
ies.
(3) SUBMISSION.—Not later than December
1, 2020, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees each study
under paragraph (1).
(4) FORM.—The studies under paragraph (1),
and the report under paragraph (3), shall be
submitted in unclassified form, but may con-
tain a classified annex.
(c) INDEPENDENT STUDY.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary shall
seek to enter into an agreement with an ap-
propriate nonpartisan nongovernmental en-
tity to conduct a study on possible alter-
natives to the current defense and deterrence
posture of the United States, including chal-
lenges to foundational assumptions, and the
impact of such postures on planning assump-
tions and requirements, basing, and force
structure requirements.
(2) SUBMISSION.—Not later than December
1, 2020, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees the study
under paragraph (1).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 476, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, let me
start by thanking the chairman of the
Armed Services Committee, ADAM
SMITH, my colleague, for his hard work
and leadership on this bill.
My amendment requires a series of
independent studies to evaluate poten-
tial cost savings with respect to our
country’s nuclear security enterprise
and force structure.
This amendment is a measured ap-
proach to ensuring that our military
spending meets our national security
needs while making the best use of
every taxpayer dollar. It would require
the Government Accountability Office
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.013 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5738 July 12, 2019
to examine options for reducing service
contracts, reducing the nuclear secu-
rity enterprise, rebalancing force
structure, and reducing or realigning
our overseas presence.
It would also examine realistic, cost-
effective ways to use pre-award audits
to negotiate better prices for weapons
systems and services.
Additionally, it would require an up-
dated and comprehensive series of stud-
ies from Federally-funded research and
development centers as well as a non-
partisan, nongovernmental think tank.
These would supplement the GAO stud-
ies and look at cost savings resulting
from alternatives to current force
structures and our nuclear posture.
Now, I know the other side is going
to say that we have done these studies;
there is plenty of information out
there. But the reality is we operate in
a different world, and we need an up-
dated, comprehensive study that deals
with our current situation in the
world.
Madam Chair, let me be clear that
while I do have strong reservations
about the top-line spending level in
this bill, my amendment would not cut
from the top line at all. Instead, it
looks at ways that we can make better
policy choices; we can better allocate a
limited set of resources down the line.
So, in the long term, I believe our de-
fense spending levels are
unsustainable, inefficient, and unnec-
essary. But we have to figure out how
to cut that logically, comprehensively,
with our national security in the cen-
ter of that analysis.
So my amendment is a thoughtful so-
lution to give us some of the data we
need. I urge my colleagues to support
the amendment.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Texas is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. MCCARTHY), the distin-
guished Republican leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Chair, the
NDAA has been a bipartisan bill for the
last 58 consecutive years. In those dec-
ades, control of Congress changed
hands many times, with Democrats in
the majority and Republicans in the
majority. Both parties maintained a
consistent motto: The troops come
first. The troops come before politics.
We are making history this week be-
cause that all changed.
But not in the Senate, where the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, the
NDAA passed with bipartisan support,
not just Republicans, but CHUCK SCHU-
MER voted for it as well; 86 Senators.
But it is not being continued in the
House, not under this majority. The
NDAA was a test for this new majority.
It was a test of whether they could put
their radicalism aside and work across
the aisle to do what was right for the
country. The Democrats, or should I
say, many call themselves socialist
Democrats, failed that test.
After weeks of infighting they
brought yet another partisan bill to
the floor. So this year’s NDAA, at least
the House version, will not and cannot
be bipartisan.
Now, let me give you a couple of rea-
sons why:
First, the bill is filled with poison
pills and rife with flaws. Here are some
of the most harmful ones.
It makes it tougher to recruit and re-
tain effective soldiers and negatively
impacts military families. This bill
cuts an astonishing $1.2 billion from
the military personnel accounts.
Terrorist attacks still threaten us
and threaten the homeland, but Demo-
crats would close GTMO and, against
all common sense, bring some of the
world’s worst and most dangerous ter-
rorists to the United States, instead of
keeping them where they belong.
Madam Chairwoman, it is going to be
quite interesting history when you cast
this vote, and when these terrorists
come to the homeland, how you answer
to your constituents that you cast that
vote to make that happen.
The humanitarian crisis on the
southern border continues; so does the
Democrats refusal to address it. They
are working to stop construction on
the border and, worse, placing severe
restrictions on the military’s tradi-
tional mission to support border secu-
rity.
Democrats have spent the last 2
years accusing President Trump of
being a Russian agent and telling us
how big a threat Putin is. But what
does the NDAA do? It actually empow-
ers Russia and China, gives them an
advantage.
Even when we worked with our NATO
allies on what we would deal with when
it came to nuclear weapons, they deny
it inside this bill.
When it comes to hypersonics, you
cut it. When it comes to the future of
this country, you just put us in a weak-
er position.
b 1000
Any way you look at it, this bill will
not make America safer.
But the problems here go beyond bad
policy ideas. The Democrats’ partisan
process is egregious. Let’s just look at
the facts.
This year, 439 amendments, a record,
were made in order. You would think
that would reflect bipartisan amend-
ments. Why do you think it would re-
flect bipartisan? Because let’s look at
the last 2 years, and I can look at that
because the gentleman on our side of
the aisle who was chair at that time
ran two NDAA bills. At the end of the
day, the vote tally was way into the
300s, almost 400.
But how do you build something in
bipartisanship? First, you start in com-
mittee. Then when it comes to the
floor with all the other Members, you
allow their amendments to come.
And those 2 years of those NDAA
bills with Republicans in the majority,
do you know who had the majority of
the amendments on this floor? The mi-
nority party. The minority party had
the most amendments on this floor.
So of those 439, how was the minority
party’s voice heard in this new NDAA
that now has become partisan? Four-
teen percent. That is right. Fourteen
percent of the amendments on this
floor were allocated to the minority
party, when history proves that we
have done something different when
somebody else was in charge.
But the most egregious of all of this
was how they treated the rules that we
fought for inside this House, that we
had this body open. We are a country of
the rule of law. We believe this House
should work the same way.
So when I listened to the new Speak-
er talk about the changes in this body,
one was a Consensus Calendar, that
anybody who is elected to Congress, if
they did their work, if they worked
hard, if they were able to achieve more
than 290 cosponsors on a bill, you
should have a voice on this floor. I
heard Members on both sides of the
aisle say they could not vote for a
Speaker unless somebody would agree
to this. It was agreed to, and it was
changed.
So when the moment came when a
Member had done the work, when it
met that threshold—and we know that
threshold is hard to meet. That Mem-
ber’s name was Congressman JOE WIL-
SON.
What did JOE WILSON put his effort,
his sweat, and his tears in? What could
he actually achieve by working on both
sides of the aisle? It was the Military
Surviving Spouses Equity Act. It would
make it easier for spouses of service-
members who died to receive military
benefits. He did everything that the
new rule said you had to do.
And what did this new majority do
after they quashed any ability for
amendments on the other side? They
changed the rule that they just cre-
ated.
My father would look at me. He
would question my character if I gave
somebody my word and I broke it. Not
only did we give somebody our word,
we actually changed the rules in this
House.
JOE WILSON has 365 sponsors—not
just supporters, but cosponsors. That is
nearly this entire House. It qualified
for the Consensus Calendar that Speak-
er PELOSI promised to create so the
floor would be open to the best, and
most of us agreed with that idea. It
turns out that was just another broken
promise by the majority.
I wonder if anyone on the other side
will bring it up. I wonder if it will
bother them that, in the moment that
you told this body what the rules
would be, and somebody achieved it for
the military spouses, that you had ac-
tually changed the rule so it cannot be
voted on.
I have seen a lot of things happen on
this floor; I have seen a lot of things
that embarrass me; but this is probably
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.016 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5739
July 12, 2019
one of the most shameful things I have
ever seen a majority do.
The Democrat Socialists stripped the
language from JOE WILSON’s bill, dis-
carded his legislation, and stuck the
language into their own partisan
NDAA that our Conference won’t sup-
port. They put it into a bill that JOE
WILSON can’t even support after he did
all the work, after they made promises
not only to the Members of Congress,
but remember what promise you made
to the American public.
Our national security is not a game,
but that is exactly how Democrats are
treating it.
Madam Chair, this majority has
reached new lows this week. They seem
determined to prove to the American
people week in and week out that they
are incapable of governing responsibly.
They can walk out these doors; they
can look down the hall; and they can
see the Chamber on the other side tak-
ing up a similar bill that reaches 86
percent of the Senate voting ‘‘yes,’’
with the leaders on the Republican and
Democrat side agreeing to it, with the
majority in the Senate not changing
the rules that they laid out for the
American public to see.
The NDAA for Fiscal Year 2020 will
determine whether our military main-
tains its gains in readiness or lan-
guishes after years of progress.
The stakes of this year’s defense
budget are too high to be left to the
wild fantasies to the left. It is time for
them to stop the partisan games and
send a message to the world that
America is serious about protecting its
interests, supporting our allies, and
shaping the future of the international
order for generations to come.
Madam Chair, I know what will hap-
pen on this floor today. History will be
written about it. Fifty-eight years that
this body has put troops first, this is
not the history I want for this House.
They will write about what happens
today, but it won’t be in a positive no-
tion. What gets voted on today will not
become law.
Madam Chair, I don’t get into con-
ference fights and debates. You can
have differences within, but why make
the troops suffer? How difficult is it to
put the troops first?
There are moments for politics, and
this is not one. This is not a moment to
be proud. This is probably one of the
lowest moments I have watched a ma-
jority use.
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to address their remarks to the
Chair.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. SMITH), the distin-
guished chairman of the Armed Serv-
ices Committee.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, meanwhile, back to a world that
actually exists.
Talking about Ms. JAYAPAL’s amend-
ment, I think it is incredibly impor-
tant because there is a problem going
forward from the military that we have
seen on many issues. You take it piece
by piece—you look at the nuclear en-
terprise; you look at the Air Force; you
look at how many ships we want; you
look at counterterrorism—and you add
up all the money over the course of the
next 20 to 25 years, and we don’t get
there.
And this is the worst thing that we
can do to our troops is to set up a
group of missions that we don’t have
the funds to prepare them for. That is
the largest problem that I see. We here
in Congress decide that they ought to
be able to do more than they can do,
and we don’t have the money to pro-
vide for it.
That is why it is so important that
we don’t do what the minority leader
just suggested we do, which is basically
shut down as a body and say whatever
the Pentagon wants, we just give it to
them and hope that they figure it out.
We have a role to play in that proc-
ess, to make sure that the money is
spent well because—I know this is news
to the other side—the Pentagon hasn’t
always been right. They haven’t always
spent their money well. And that is the
understatement of the morning.
So we need to know: Where are they
spending the money? How can we bet-
ter understand that?
Where the nuclear enterprise is con-
cerned, we are set to spend a lot of
money. I know it is only 6 percent of
the defense budget, but 6 percent of the
defense budget is a lot of money. We
need to better understand it.
I urge support for the amendment.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time to close
on this amendment.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I just
want to say that this amendment is a
smart, thoughtful way to think about
how we reduce military spending over
the long term without sacrificing na-
tional security.
And, Madam Chair, I don’t under-
stand when patriotism got linked to
how much money we give to defense
contractors. That is not my idea of pa-
triotism.
Patriotism, to me, and protecting the
troops means that we make sure that
we do not send them into harm’s way
unless absolutely necessary, which
means that we look at the threats of
the future, we assess our response to
that, and we take care of our troops.
This bill does that in many, many,
many, many ways.
I have squabbles, as you know, with
the top-line spending number because I
don’t believe that being patriotic
means we just continue to raise the
amount of money that we give. I think
we need to be thoughtful and com-
prehensive about what our national se-
curity looks like internationally.
And, Madam Chair, I also think that
national security should mean how we
treat people here in this country. If we
send troops overseas and yet we cut
their healthcare, we take away pre-
existing conditions for their family
members, we refuse to provide public
education, that is not helping our
troops while they are overseas to worry
about their families.
So national security is a big picture
conversation. It is not about how much
money we give to defense contractors.
This amendment is thoughtful. It
says what we know about the future.
If a private corporation lost track of
hundreds of millions of dollars, its
shareholders would find that com-
pletely unacceptable. The reality is
that we need to make sure we are
thoughtful, and we should pass this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Chair, there is a train of
thought, a political philosophy in the
United States, at least since the six-
ties, that we are the problem, that the
world would be a better place if we re-
duced our military, if we were weaker,
if we did less; we are the problem.
In one political convention, Jeane
Kirkpatrick called it the ‘‘blame Amer-
ica first’’ approach, and I think we are
seeing elements of that philosophy in
this amendment, because this amend-
ment requires a bunch of studies about
how we cut stuff.
Now, it doesn’t really talk about,
okay, what are our adversaries doing.
It doesn’t really talk about the chal-
lenges in meeting the security needs of
our neighborhoods, how we prevent ter-
rorists from coming to America and
blowing us up, how we prevent the Rus-
sians, the Chinese from doing a variety
of things, the Iranians, North Korean
missiles. No, it just talks about, okay,
what can we do to cut us.
And, specifically, section (a)(1)A asks
for studies on options for reducing the
Nuclear Security Enterprise; B, options
for reducing service contracts; C, op-
tions for reducing special operations
forces; D, options for reducing overseas
military presence; F, options for re-
placing military personnel with civil-
ian personnel. It is all about cuts.
I understand that there is that ap-
proach, but that approach has not been
what has guided the broad majority of
American political leadership for the
last 70 years, because that approach
has been that America needs to be
strong. We are not perfect. Absolutely,
the Pentagon is not as efficient as it
should be, no question. But the idea is
we should be strong and we have to pay
attention to what adversaries are
doing. That is not the approach that
this amendment takes.
One other point, I think that Chair-
man SMITH made a very important
point a while ago, and that is one of
the worst things we can do is send men
and women out on missions without
providing the support, the training, all
that they need to, the best equipment,
all that they need to perform that mis-
sion successfully.
b 1015
We owe them that when they risk
their lives. Yet, that is exactly what
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.017 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5740 July 12, 2019
this government, and I think there is
blame on both sides, has done in the
past.
The world did not get safer. We did
not reduce the missions we asked them
to do. Yet, the budget was cut by 20
percent. And what happened? More of
them lost their lives. There are real
consequences to cuts without taking
into account a strategy and including
what adversaries are doing.
The administration has, for the first
time in a long time, a significant Na-
tional Security Strategy. It is not per-
fect, but at least it is an approach to
dealing with these things: Here is the
strategy. Here are the resources we
need to meet that strategy.
That is what they have given us. You
can agree or disagree, but they have
done that.
That is not what this amendment
does. This amendment says cut. This
amendment says, have America grow
weaker and, somehow, the world will
benefit. I don’t think that is true.
Madam Chair, I am opposed to this
amendment. I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Washington will
be postponed.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 17 OFFERED BY MR.
SMITH OF WASHINGTON
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, pursuant to House Resolution
476, I offer amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 17 con-
sisting of amendment Nos. 432, 433, 434,
435, 436, and 439, printed in part B of
House Report 116–143, offered by Mr.
SMITH of Washington:
AMENDMENT NO. 432 OFFERED BY MISS RICE OF
NEW YORK
At the end of subtitle G of title X, insert
the following:
SEC. 10ll. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUP-
PORT FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY OPERATIONS
ON THE SOUTHWEST BORDER OF
THE UNITED STATES.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
review of ongoing and planned future Depart-
ment of Defense support for Department of
Homeland Security operations to secure the
southwest border of the United States.
(b) REPORT AND BRIEFING.—
(1) BRIEFING.—Not later than 180 days after
beginning to conduct the review required
under subsection (a), the Comptroller Gen-
eral shall provide to the Committees on
Armed Services and Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the
Committees on Armed Services and Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives a briefing on the review.
(2) REPORT.—Subsequent to providing the
briefing under paragraph (1), the Comptroller
General shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services and Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the
Committees on Armed Services and Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the review.
AMENDMENT NO. 433 OFFERED BY MR. STANTON
OF ARIZONA
At the end of subtitle G of title V, add the
following new section:
SEC. 567. INCLUSION OF QUESTION REGARDING
IMMIGRATION STATUS ON
PRESEPARATION COUNSELING
CHECKLIST (DD FORM 2648).
Not later than September 30, 2020, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall modify the
preseparation counseling checklist for active
component, active guard reserve, active re-
serve, full time support, and reserve program
administrator service members (DD Form
2648) to include a specific block wherein a
member of the Armed Forces may indicate
that the member would like to receive infor-
mation regarding the immigration status of
that member and expedited naturalization.
AMENDMENT NO. 434 OFFERED BY MR. TAKANO OF
CALIFORNIA
At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the
following new section:
SEC. 530. NOTIFICATION TO SECRETARY OF
HOMELAND SECURITY OF HONOR-
ABLE DISCHARGES OF NON-CITI-
ZENS.
(a) NOTICE REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide the Secretary of Home-
land Security with a copy of the Certificate
of Release or Discharge from Active Duty
(DD Form 214) for each individual who is not
a citizen of the United States who is honor-
ably discharged from the Armed Forces so
the Secretary of Homeland Security may
note such discharge in an I-213 Record of De-
portable/Inadmissible Alien for that indi-
vidual.
(b) DEADLINE.—The Secretary of Defense
shall provide each notice under this section
not later than 30 days after the date of such
discharge.
AMENDMENT NO. 435 OFFERED BY MR. AGUILAR
OF CALIFORNIA
At the end of subtitle G of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 567. COUNSELING TO MEMBERS WHO ARE
NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED
STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary concerned
shall furnish to covered individuals under
the jurisdiction of that Secretary counseling
regarding how to apply for naturalization.
(b) COVERED INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered individual’’
means a member of the Armed Forces who is
not a citizen of the United States.
AMENDMENT NO. 436 OFFERED BY MR. AGUILAR
OF CALIFORNIA
At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 530. PROHIBITION ON INVOLUNTARY SEPA-
RATION OR DEPORTATION OF MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO
ARE DACA RECIPIENTS OR HAVE
TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS.
(a) DACA.—No covered person who has re-
ceived deferred action under the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals program of the
Department of Homeland Security, estab-
lished pursuant to the memorandum of the
Secretary of Homeland Security dated June
15, 2012, may, solely on the basis of such de-
ferred action, be—
(1) involuntarily separated from the Armed
Forces;
(2) placed into removal proceedings; or
(3) removed from the United States.
(b) TPS.—No covered person who has tem-
porary protected status under section 244 of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1254a), may, solely on the basis of
such status, be—
(1) involuntarily separated from the Armed
Forces;
(2) placed into removal proceedings; or
(3) removed from the United States.
(c) COVERED PERSON DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘covered person’’ means—
(1) a member of the Armed Forces; or
(2) an individual who was discharged from
the Armed Forces under honorable condi-
tions.
AMENDMENT NO. 439 OFFERED BY MR. POCAN OF
WISCONSIN
At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the
following new section:
SEC. 530. REVIEW OF DISCHARGE CHARACTER-
IZATION.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may cited
as the ‘‘Restore Honor to Service Members
Act’’.
(b) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with this
section, and in a manner that is consistent
across the entire Department of Defense, the
appropriate discharge boards shall review
the discharge characterization of covered
members at the request of a covered mem-
ber, and shall change the discharge charac-
terization of a covered member to honorable
if such change is determined to be appro-
priate after a review is conducted.
(c) APPEAL.—A covered member, or the
representative of the member, may appeal a
decision by the appropriate discharge board
to not change the discharge characterization
by using the regular appeals process of the
board.
(d) CHANGE OF RECORDS.—For each covered
member whose discharge characterization is
changed under subsection (a), or for each
covered member who was honorably dis-
charged but whose DD-214 form reflects the
sexual orientation of the member, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall reissue to the mem-
ber or their representative a revised DD-214
form that does not reflect the sexual orienta-
tion of the member or reason for initial dis-
charge.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate discharge board’’
means the boards for correction of military
records under section 1552 of title 10, United
States Code, or the discharge review boards
under section 1553 of such title, as the case
may be.
(2) The term ‘‘covered member’’ means any
former member of the Armed Forces who was
discharged from the Armed Forces because
of the sexual orientation of the member.
(3) The term ‘‘discharge characterization’’
means the characterization under which a
member of the Armed forces is discharged or
released, including ‘‘dishonorable’’, ‘‘gen-
eral’’, ‘‘other than honorable’’, and ‘‘honor-
able’’.
(4) The term ‘‘representative’’ means the
surviving spouse, next of kin, or legal rep-
resentative of a covered member.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 476, the gentleman
from Washington (Mr. SMITH) and the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. THORN-
BERRY) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Washington.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of my amendment to ex-
pand and improve the defense access
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.019 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5741
July 12, 2019
roads program. This critical program
allows the Defense Department to con-
struct, replace, and maintain roads
that lead to military installations.
My amendment will improve the pro-
gram by allowing DOD to construct
and maintain flood management infra-
structure, such as culverts and storm
drains, and to fortify the roads that are
projected to be impacted by sea level
rise.
This authority is critical to bases in
the Lowcountry, such as Parris Island,
which is increasingly vulnerable to
projected flooding.
Additionally, this measure will ex-
pand the program to include roads to
airports or seaports that are deemed
necessary for our national security.
Given Charleston’s indispensable role
in supporting the rapid deployment of
our servicemembers and their equip-
ment, it is essential that our local in-
frastructure is maintained and rein-
forced.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to join me in supporting this amend-
ment.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
would inform the Chair that I have
only myself to speak on this amend-
ment. I don’t know if the chairman has
other speakers.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, it is just me. I am going to
close, so I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, let me start in a simi-
lar way that I started 2 days ago, and
that is to express my appreciation to
the staff, which has done a terrific job
of wading through a ton of issues, a lot
of paper, in bringing this bill to the
floor.
I also want to express my particular
appreciation to some unsung heroes,
and those are the folks in the legisla-
tive counsel. Members and staff come
up with these great ideas. Well, it
takes the professionals to actually get
that down on paper in legislative lan-
guage in a timely way so that we can
deal with it here on the floor or in
committee or subcommittee, wherever
it is. They do a magnificent job, and I
don’t think they get enough attention
for the work that they do.
In addition, I want to express my ap-
preciation to Chairman SMITH and to
all the members of the Armed Services
Committee for their commitment, for
not just the work they put into it, but
for their dedication and commitment
to the country’s national security.
There have been some inferences, and
even more than inferences, on the floor
that there is some sort of political ma-
neuvering or games going on. I have
not seen that in the Armed Services
Committee. I believe, to a man and
woman, every member of that com-
mittee is sincerely dedicated to doing
the right thing for the troops and for
the country’s national security.
The truth is, together, we have done
a lot of good work over the years, 58
straight years. In recent years, we have
together grappled with the problem
that we were discussing a few moments
ago, a readiness crisis that resulted in
the highest number of aviation deaths
in 6 years last year and an increasing
number of accidents.
Together, we grappled to turn the
corner and do a better job. There is a
lot of pride in what the committee to-
gether has done over the years.
There is concern, at least among the
Members on my side of the aisle, that
a lot of that progress we have made to-
gether stands a chance of slipping
backward with this bill.
We have spent 3 days going through
hundreds of amendments. A lot of
times, we don’t talk about the core of
the bill. Let me give some examples of
the concerns that I have about the re-
ductions in authorization in the under-
lying bill that make a real difference.
For example, the underlying bill cut
$295 million from aircraft carrier pro-
curement, leading to a 1-year delay in
the construction of the next carrier.
We need 12 carriers. We have 11. We are
on a path to nine. As a result of this
bill, we are going to delay by another
year getting another carrier.
It cuts $155 million from fast inshore
attack craft mine countermeasures.
Within the last 2 days, we have had
some of these small boats in the Per-
sian Gulf threaten British tankers, yet
this bill cuts $155 million from the sort
of thing that deals with that.
A lot of us are concerned about what
the Russians and the Chinese are doing
in hypersonics. A number of people
think they are ahead of us in a number
of respects. This bill cuts $20 million
from hypersonic wind tunnels and in-
frastructure. It makes it harder for us
to catch up.
This bill cuts $261 million from 5G
next-generation communications.
These funds were supposed to go to
sites across the country to kick-start
domestic innovation and explore 5G ap-
plications in military depots, seaports,
and defense manufacturing. 5G is a big
deal for the military, and we are com-
peting with the Chinese especially.
Yet, the bill cuts $261 million from
what the administration requested.
It cuts $123 million from F–15 spares
and repair parts. Twenty-eight of these
aircraft are grounded today. The aver-
age age of the fleet is 35 years. Yet,
this bill cuts $123 million from the
spare parts to get those planes flying
again. I think that is a mistake.
The bill cuts $42 million for a missile
defense test that was approved, on a bi-
partisan basis, for the SM3 Block 2A
missile.
It cuts $376 million from next-genera-
tion OPIR, which is the new satellite
constellation to help warn against mis-
sile threat.
Specific, concrete things—these are
not numbers out of the air. These are
specific things where Members are con-
cerned that it leads to sliding back-
ward on readiness or not making the
progress that we need to make when it
comes to our adversaries.
That was the bill coming out of com-
mittee. Then, as we have heard, the bill
took a disturbing turn on its way to
the floor. I won’t repeat the numbers
about the Rules Committee. The sta-
tistic that concerns me the most,
frankly, is that, of the amendments
made in order that were contested—in
other words, there was a debate; there
was a difference of opinion; it was not
agreed to—of those amendments that
were made in order, one was a Repub-
lican amendment, MIKE TURNER’s
amendment on low-yield nukes. That
was the only Republican opportunity
to shift the bill in a different direction.
Then, Madam Chair, I note that the
Armed Services Committee has put out
a press release that is titled ‘‘Demo-
cratic Priorities in the FY20 NDAA.’’
The first bullet says, ‘‘This is the
first time in history that HASC has cut
$17 billion from the President’s budg-
et.’’
‘‘First time in history,’’ not exactly
a way to maintain a bipartisan ap-
proach to national security when the
majority is boasting that, for the first
time in history, they are cutting a
President’s request more than ever.
I turn to page 4: ‘‘Accelerates Closure
of Guantanamo Bay Detention Facil-
ity. . . . Eliminates arbitrary statu-
tory restrictions on transfer of detain-
ees from Guantanamo Bay.’’
This restriction was put into law
about 10 years ago under a Democratic
majority and with President Obama in
the White House. It prevented GTMO
detainees from being transferred to the
U.S. That was taken out in this bill.
Not exactly the way to build a bipar-
tisan majority.
On page 6, the headline is ‘‘Protects
Against Nuclear Catastrophe.’’ Under-
neath, it says, ‘‘Prohibits deployment
funding for low-yield nuclear war-
heads,’’ and, ‘‘Reduces requested fund-
ing for NNSA nuclear weapons pro-
grams by $608 million.’’ Down a little
lower, it says, ‘‘Cuts $103 million from
the Ground-Based Strategic Deter-
rent.’’
So, we are going to prevent nuclear
catastrophe by cutting ourselves. It
doesn’t talk about what the Russians,
Chinese, Iranians, North Koreans, any-
body else are doing. We prevent nuclear
catastrophe by cutting ourselves.
That is the trend that this bill has
taken as it has approached the floor.
I realize that there are various points
of view within the Democratic Caucus.
I note a political article that says Con-
gressional Progressive Caucus leaders
‘‘are demanding a string of concessions
from Speaker PELOSI and her top lieu-
tenants.’’
That is the concern, I think, that
many of us have.
Madam Chair, I would say two
things.
One is, unfortunately, this year in
the House, we have spent a lot of time
on messaging bills that are never going
to be considered by the Senate, will
never get to the President. I don’t want
the NDAA to turn into a messaging
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.021 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5742 July 12, 2019
bill, where we can go home and brag
about something we voted, but those
provisions have no chance of becoming
law.
Secondly, and lastly, I would say
there is a lot of good in this bill. I have
talked about some of the not so good,
in my view. There is a lot of good in
this bill. There always is in an NDAA,
in a bill this big, good and bad. There
is a lot of good, and a lot of Members
on both sides have contributed a lot of
good, but the direction it has taken is
not for the good.
I would suggest that Members who do
care about a strong military, about
doing the right things for our troops
and for our American national secu-
rity, consider very carefully their vote
on final passage when it comes to that
time.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
First of all, I want to echo the com-
ments of the ranking member and
thank our staffs for the work on this.
I don’t have the statistics in front of
me, but there are literally thousands of
proposals for this bill that are pre-
sented at the beginning of the com-
mittee process, working through to the
full floor.
Both staffs, Republican and Demo-
cratic—I think we are the only com-
mittee in Congress, or in the House, at
any rate, that actually shares staff. We
share the budget. We don’t just divide
it up.
So, when I say thank you, I am
thanking the Republican and Demo-
cratic members of staff. They do an
enormous amount of incredible work to
produce this product.
I believe, as I will mention later, that
we upheld the bipartisan tradition of
this bill, worked with Republicans and
Democrats, and produced a very good
product. But we must acknowledge the
incredible hard work that is done by
the people sitting behind me, a lot of
people over in the building and a lot of
people over there. I appreciate that.
I also appreciate the working rela-
tionship that I have with the ranking
member. When I was the ranking mem-
ber and he was the chair, we worked to-
gether on a lot of issues. We have con-
tinued to do so. I appreciate that lead-
ership, and I appreciate his commit-
ment to the defense bill.
b 1030
I think this is a good bill. I just want
to mention a few things in it that are
positive.
First of all, at $733 billion—and,
again, more on that later—this is the
largest defense bill in the history of
the country. But within this bill, we
also focus on cutting waste and dra-
matically increasing accountability. I
think the taxpayers, and, yes, the
troops, want to make sure that the
Pentagon doesn’t just spend money,
but that they spend it well.
We finally live up to the rhetoric and
we give the widows the money that
they have been asking for. Just about
every single Republican Member of
Congress is a cosponsor of this bill—
JOE WILSON is the prime sponsor—that
fully funds widows’ benefits. After co-
sponsoring it for 9 years, the Repub-
licans were in charge and doing noth-
ing about it, we actually put it in the
bill and we are going to pass it. And
yet, to hear them say that it is some-
how a bad thing to basically do what
they have been emptily promising for 8
years, I think, is a very big positive on
the bill.
We have a tenant’s bill of rights to
protect families and the housing that
we have heard so many complaints
about. We step up to try to protect
those families.
We have paid family and medical
leave for all Federal employees, includ-
ing all DOD employees.
We have provisions to protect our
military and our communities from the
dangerous chemicals in PFAS that we
have learned so much about.
We make sure that troops get the pay
raise that they deserve: a 3.1 percent
pay raise.
And, yes, we also have provisions to
try to make sure that the children who
are being held by DOD within the mi-
grant community are adequately pro-
tected.
I think that is all important. And
yet, for all of that, the Republicans op-
pose the bill, and it raises the question:
Why?
Earlier on, the chairman quoted me
from a few years ago when we opposed
the bill. As I said, opposing the bill
doesn’t mean you are against our
troops, and I stand by that. Now, it is
interesting to note that a large number
of Members on that side at the time
said that much and much more: that to
oppose this bill means you are against
national security and against those
troops.
To his credit, the then-chairman, Mr.
THORNBERRY, didn’t say that. What he
said was: Look, on the defense bill, you
can always have a bunch of excuses for
why you don’t support it. But, at the
end of the day, if you don’t support it,
you are not supporting funding our
military and you are not supporting
giving our troops what they need.
That is now what, en masse, the Re-
publicans are going to do.
So the question is: Why? What is
their list of excuses?
It starts with that top line. And this
was their most brilliant political move.
It has been quoted that Chairman
Dunford said that we needed to have
inflation, plus 3 to 5 percent. That was
in a newspaper article. I thought about
that. That is not actually what they
said. Secretary Mattis was very clear.
Once we got the deal last year to get to
$716 billion, he said we need inflation.
That is what I remember. But how do
we know that is true?
Chairman Dunford and Secretary
Mattis, a year ago, proposed $733 bil-
lion. So if they believed we needed in-
flation, plus 3 to 5 percent, are they
just bad at math? Did they not have a
calculator available to figure out that
$733 billion isn’t that? No. It is what
they said they needed.
I think we now know why the Repub-
licans at the last minute said: No, we
have to have $750 billion: so they can
come up here and claim that we cut
stuff. That is just ridiculous.
There are two great examples.
The distinguished minority leader—it
is possible that he is just this stupid,
but I don’t think it is true—said that
we cut hypersonic weapons. How much
did we cut them by? We increased them
by $300 million over last year.
But, yes, we reduced them. It wasn’t
actually a hypersonic weapon, but we
made a reduction in the $750 billion re-
quest. So you create the $750 billion re-
quest and then you say you are cut-
ting. We are not cutting, we are in-
creasing. Which is why I say, if we had
come in at $750 billion, they would
have said $800 billion and then stood up
there and accused us of everything else
that we cut.
And the personnel account is another
great example: a $1.2 billion cut. Last
year, in their budget, they cut the per-
sonnel account by $1.7 billion because
the Pentagon frequently asks for per-
sonnel funds that are not justified.
That is our job.
So only in the minds of a Republican
can a $733 billion defense budget, that
is an increase over last year, be a cut.
There are not cuts to this budget in
that way. We fully fund the military.
And then we hear their argument
about one nuclear weapon that we are
not going to field. You heard what they
said: it is unilateral nuclear disar-
mament.
To cut one weapon when we have
thousands of nuclear weapons?
There was no way the Republican
Party was ever going to vote for a bill
put together by Democrats. And these
people behind me, they worked their
butts off to make this bipartisan. What
the minority leader said is the biggest
insult I have ever heard to the mem-
bers of the staff in 23 years on this
committee. To dismiss them as par-
tisan, not interested in national secu-
rity is an incredible insult to the hard
work that they do, and nobody in this
House, Republican or Democrat, should
let a statement like that stand.
We have put together a good bill. The
reason Republicans oppose it is for
purely partisan reasons. And, that is,
they want to be able to give speeches,
like the one of the minority leader who
said Democrats don’t care about na-
tional security. We care about national
security. In fact, I will tell you, our
bill isn’t just good, it is better than the
ones that the Republican Party have
put together.
We believe the Pentagon should be
accountable. They said $733 billion. As
recently as December of this year, the
ranking member put an op-ed in The
Wall Street Journal saying we had to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.022 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5743
July 12, 2019
have $733 billion. And now, all of a sud-
den, $733 billion isn’t just not the right
number, ‘‘it is socialism,’’ ‘‘it is de-
stroying the world as we know it,’’ ‘‘we
can’t support it.’’ That is ridiculous. It
is a partisan argument. It is what the
minority does. But it has never been
what we have done on this bill.
I believe in the bipartisanship of this
committee. And as angry as I was, sit-
ting there listening to the minority
leader insult all of the people who have
worked to make this bill bipartisan—
and you can oppose it, that is fine—but
to say that we don’t care about na-
tional security, that we are a bunch of
socialists who don’t want to work with
Republicans, is a bald-faced lie.
And the last statistic on that is the
amendment thing—and I love this—we
made more amendments in order on
this defense bill this year than ever.
The Republicans actually submitted a
lot fewer amendments than we did. We
submitted 480, they submitted 201. And
then we actually agreed with the over-
whelming majority of their amend-
ments and put them in en bloc pack-
ages. They didn’t agree with the over-
whelming majority of our amendments,
so we didn’t put them in en bloc pack-
ages, which gives them the statistic
that only one of their amendments was
debated.
So by working with them and agree-
ing with them to include 50 percent of
their amendments—the most amend-
ments ever offered—that is partisan.
And I can’t help but feel like they were
setting us up. They didn’t want to
work with us. No matter how hard we
tried, no matter how many hours we
spent working with them, they wanted
to come to the floor today and say that
Democrats don’t care about national
security.
That is shameful. I am going to get
over it. We are going to work past it—
I think national security is too impor-
tant to get petty about these things—
and we are going to keep working to-
gether.
The good news is that we have a very
good bill. It is accountable. It doesn’t
just give the Pentagon money. Yes, we
eliminate senseless discrimination by
stopping the ban on transgender
troops.
I will say the other side is wrong.
They have voted against the defense
bill before. They voted against it in
2010 because we repealed Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell. They were wrong then and
they are wrong now. Discrimination in
the military doesn’t make us safer.
Mindless bigotry doesn’t make us safer.
I believe strongly in this bill. The
good news is, we got this, we are going
to pass it, even if the other side is
going to decide to play partisan poli-
tics.
Madam Chair, I urge support for the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to address their remarks to the
Chair.
Mr. POCAN. Madam Chair, I rise today in
support of Amendment No. 439 which is
based upon legislation that I have introduced
every Congress since I was elected in 2012,
the ‘‘Restore Honor to Service Members Act’’.
This amendment will require the Department
of Defense to correct the military records of
service members discharged solely because
of their sexual orientation. Importantly, amend-
ing service members’ discharge characteriza-
tions to an honorable discharge will enable im-
pacted individuals to access the benefits they
earned and to which they would otherwise be
entitled. It is a significant moment for the more
than 100,000 Americans estimated to have
been discharged from the military since World
War II due to their sexual orientation.
I thank Chairman SMITH for his strong sup-
port of this amendment, Paul Arcangeli—Staff
Director of the House Armed Services Com-
mittee—for his assistance, and Leslie Zelenko
of my staff who has worked tirelessly to en-
sure the success of the amendment before us
today.
Additionally, I would like to extend my deep
gratitude to the Human Rights Campaign, the
Modem Military Association of America, and
VoteVets, for supporting this amendment, and
Representatives KATIE HILL, CHRIS PAPPAS,
MARK TAKANO, SETH MOULTON, JAMIE RASKIN,
CHUY GARCÍA, ALAN LOWENTHAL, BARBARA
LEE, BILL FOSTER, BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN,
ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON, SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY, BRIAN HIGGINS, ED CASE, PAUL
TONKO, DENNY HECK, JAN SCHAKOWSKY,
VERONICA ESCOBAR, ROBIN KELLY, JULIA
BROWNLEY, KURT SCHRADER, STEVE COHEN,
ILHAN OMAR, SHEILA JACKSON LEE, SUZAN
DELBENE, ANTHONY BROWN, JOE KENNEDY,
DONNA SHALALA, SUZANNE BONAMICI, and
KATIE PORTER for cosponsoring. I would also
like to recognize Senator BRIAN SCHATZ and
Senator KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND for championing
this legislation in the Senate. Without this out-
pouring of support, today would not have been
possible. Again, I thank them.
Madam Chair, I urge all of my colleagues to
support the Restore Honor amendment, and I
urge a yes vote in favor of the en bloc amend-
ment into which it has been packaged.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendments en bloc offered by
the gentleman from Washington (Mr.
SMITH).
The en bloc amendments were agreed
to.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Chair, I move that the Committee do
now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
MCCOLLUM) having assumed the chair,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense and for military construc-
tion, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes, had come to no resolu-
tion thereon.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
NEVER FORGET THE HEROES:
JAMES ZADROGA, RAY PFEIFER,
AND LUIS ALVAREZ PERMANENT
AUTHORIZATION OF THE SEP-
TEMBER 11TH VICTIM COM-
PENSATION FUND ACT
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1327) to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H. R. 1327
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Never For-
get the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer,
and Luis Alvarez Permanent Authorization
of the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund Act’’.
SEC. 2. SEPTEMBER 11TH VICTIM COMPENSA-
TION FUND OF 2001.
(a) AUTHORIZATION AND FUNDING.—Section
410 of the Air Transportation Safety and
System Stabilization Act (49 U.S.C. 40101
note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), by striking
‘‘$4,600,000,000’’ and all that follows through
‘‘expended’’ and inserting ‘‘such sums as may
be necessary for fiscal year 2019 and each fis-
cal year thereafter through fiscal year 2092,
to remain available until expended’’; and
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘Upon
completion of all payments under this title’’
and inserting ‘‘On October 1, 2092, or at such
time thereafter as all funds are expended’’.
(b) EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON CLAIM FIL-
ING.—Section 405(a)(3)(B) of the Air Trans-
portation Safety and System Stabilization
Act (40 U.S.C. 401010 note) is amended by
striking ‘‘the date that is 5 years after the
date of enactment of the James Zadroga 9/11
Victim Compensation Fund Reauthorization
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘October 1, 2090’’.
(c) COMPENSATION REDUCED BY SPECIAL
MASTER DUE TO LACK OF FUNDING.—Section
406(d)(2) of the Air Transportation Safety
and System Stabilization Act (49 U.S.C. 40101
note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(D) COMPENSATION REDUCED BY SPECIAL
MASTER DUE TO INSUFFICIENT FUNDING.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In any claim in Group B
as described in section 405(a)(3)(C)(iii) in
which, prior to the enactment of the Never
Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Author-
ization of the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund Act, the Special Master had
advised the claimant that the amount of
compensation has been reduced on the basis
of insufficient funding, the Special Master
shall, in the first fiscal year beginning after
sufficient funding becomes available under
such Act, pay to the claimant an amount
that is, as determined by the Special Master,
equal to the difference between—
‘‘(I) the amount the claimant would have
been paid under this title if sufficient fund-
ing was available to the Special Master at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.024 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5744 July 12, 2019
the time the Special Master determined the
amount due the claimant under this title;
and
‘‘(II) the amount the claimant was paid
under this title.
‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
subparagraph:
‘‘(I) INSUFFICIENT FUNDING.—The term ‘in-
sufficient funding’ means funding—
‘‘(aa) that is available to the Special Mas-
ter under section 410(c) on the day before the
date of enactment of the Never Forget the
Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and
Luis Alvarez Permanent Authorization of
the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund Act for purposes of compensating
claims in Group B as described in section
405(a)(3)(C)(iii); and
‘‘(bb) that the Special Master determines is
insufficient for purposes of compensating all
such claims and complying with subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(II) SUFFICIENT FUNDING.—The term ‘suffi-
cient funding’ means funding—
‘‘(aa) made available to the Special Master
for purposes of compensating claims in
Group B as described in section
405(a)(3)(C)(iii) through an Act of Congress
that is enacted after the date on which the
amount of the claim described in clause (i)
has been reduced; and
‘‘(bb) that the Special Master determines is
sufficient for purposes of compensating all
claims in such Group B.’’.
(d) LIMITATIONS ON NONECONOMIC LOSS.—
Section 405(b)(7)(A) of the of the Air Trans-
portation Safety and System Stabilization
Act (49 U.S.C. 40101 note) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as
subclauses (I) and (II) respectively, and ad-
justing the margins accordingly;
(2) by striking ‘‘With respect to’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), with respect to’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Special Master may
exceed the applicable limitation in clause (i)
for a claim in Group B as described in sub-
section (a)(3)(C)(iii) if the Special Master de-
termines that the claim presents special cir-
cumstances.’’.
(e) ADJUSTMENT OF ANNUAL GROSS INCOME
LIMITATION.—Section 405(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the
Air Transportation Safety and System Sta-
bilization Act (40 U.S.C. 40101 note) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘$200,000.’’ and inserting ‘‘the
annual gross income limitation. The annual
gross income limitation in effect on the date
of enactment of the Never Forget the Heroes:
James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis Alva-
rez Permanent Authorization of the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act
is $200,000. The Special Master shall periodi-
cally adjust that annual gross income limi-
tation to account for inflation.’’.
SEC. 3. APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL MASTER AND
DEPUTY SPECIAL MASTERS.
Section 404 of the Air Transportation Safe-
ty and System Stabilization Act (49 U.S.C.
40101 note) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL MASTER AND
DEPUTY SPECIAL MASTERS.—The Attorney
General may appoint a Special Master and
no more than two Deputy Special Masters
without regard to the provisions of title 5,
United States Code, governing appointments
in the competitive service. Any such em-
ployee shall serve at the pleasure of the At-
torney General. The Attorney General shall
fix the annual salary of the Special Master
and the Deputy Special Masters.’’.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
(a) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this Act shall not be en-
tered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
(b) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this Act shall not be en-
tered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained
for purposes of section 4106 of House Concur-
rent Resolution 71 (115th Congress).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, today, this body
will, for what I hope is the final time,
meet its moral obligation to provide
for survivors and responders suffering
from 9/11-related illnesses.
This obligation is two-fold.
First, on September 11, 2001, it was
not just the city of New York and the
Pentagon that were attacked, it was
the entire country. A national attack
has always required a national re-
sponse. That is why responders from
around the country rushed to New
York to aid in the rescue and recovery
effort in the immediate aftermath.
Today, sick responders and survivors
live in all 50 States. This is a national
problem, and Congress must provide a
national solution.
Second, tens of thousands of respond-
ers and survivors are sick because the
Federal Government, in its rush to get
Wall Street reopened, ignored the evi-
dence and the expert opinions of sci-
entists. The then-head of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency repeatedly
assured us that the air around the
World Trade Center was ‘‘safe to
breath.’’ We knew it wasn’t, but the
Federal Government kept insisting it
was.
And, compounding the Federal Gov-
ernment’s culpability was its failure to
conduct a comprehensive cleanup of
the environmental disaster created
when the World Trade Center towers
collapsed. For example, the EPA ad-
ministrator told the public that asbes-
tos could be cleaned from apartments
with a damp cloth and a wet mop.
Based on these false assurances, stu-
dents were sent back to schools that
had been contaminated with the toxic
dust cloud without ventilation systems
being cleaned first. People kept work-
ing to clear the pile for months with no
protective equipment. Quite simply,
the Federal Government lied, and now
tens of thousands of people are sick
with 9/11-related illnesses. It now falls
to us—in the words of Abraham Lin-
coln—‘‘to care for him who shall have
borne the battle and for his widow and
for his orphan.’’
Three times, Congress has come to-
gether to provide a health program and
compensation for the victims of 9/11
through a victim compensation fund,
or VCF. Most recently, in 2015, we
made the World Trade Center Health
Program effectively permanent, ex-
tended to 2090, but reauthorized the
VCF, the victim compensation fund,
for only 5 years.
As we heard in a Judiciary Com-
mittee hearing last month, a 5-year au-
thorization was not nearly long
enough. People are still getting sick as
diseases, such as cancer, often emerge
only after long latency periods. In fact,
the Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates that, in the coming years, can-
cer claims will represent 63 percent of
all claims before the VCF, up from 44
percent today.
Further, as the number of sick re-
sponders and survivors continues to
rise, the limited resources Congress
provided to the VCF have proven inad-
equate and now thousands of families
are facing up to 70 percent cuts in
compensation.
b 1045
I refuse to accept that. Every sick re-
sponder and survivor should be treated
with the same dignity and compassion,
regardless of when they became sick,
and no one should be forced to spend
their last days walking the Halls of
Congress begging us to reauthorize this
program.
That is why we are here today, to
pass what I hope will be the last au-
thorization we ever need for the VCF.
This bipartisan legislation, with over
330 cosponsors, will reverse all of the
cuts in compensation and make those
families whole. It will extend the au-
thorization for the VCF through 2092,
substantially the same timeline as the
World Trade Center Health Program,
and make technical improvements to
the program.
We have asked so much of our re-
sponders and survivors. It is time for
us to give them the peace of mind they
deserve and pass this bill once and for
all.
Finally, I want to take a moment to
recognize the three men after whom we
named this bill.
James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis
Alvarez passed away after battling 9/11-
related illnesses. A month ago, Detec-
tive Alvarez testified before the Judici-
ary Committee, just 24 hours before
what was supposed to be his 69th chem-
otherapy treatment, a treatment he,
ultimately, was too sick to receive.
Two weeks ago, he passed away.
Like every responder and survivor of
9/11, these three men kept fighting for
this program, even when they knew it
was too late for them. That is the spir-
it of 9/11. This bill is now their name-
sake, and we vote today in their name.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.007 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5745
July 12, 2019
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, the attacks on 9/11, designed
to murder as many innocent people as
possible, were acts of war against the
United States. It resulted in the deaths
of almost 3,000 people and left a smol-
dering pile of toxic debris in New York.
But thousands of noble and courageous
first responders scaled that smoldering
pile and exhumed the dead with dig-
nity. Today, the site includes the Na-
tional September 11 Memorial.
It is fitting that Congress do more
than memorialize. We must also pro-
vide. The 9/11 first responders, like all
first responders, deserve to have their
sacrifices recognized through programs
that reasonably limit their damage to
their own selves and families and the
sacrifice they entailed.
This legislation would reauthorize
the current September 11 Victim Com-
pensation Fund, the medical program
covering needed healthcare for those
affected by the 9/11 incident, which has
already been extended to the year 2090
in legislation enacted many years ago.
This legislation before us today
would extend a separate program to
2090, namely, the program designed to
compensate the same victims for lost
earnings and other losses they suffered
as a result of the 9/11 attack. The com-
pensation will, of course, cost money,
recognizing that it is not mean-spirited
in any way, but simply a necessity in a
responsible budgeting process where
limited Federal dollars and specific
funds must be allocated in a formal
budget composed of specific dollar
amounts divided up by a program.
Sadly, this bill comes to the floor
without any provision to pay for the
program, in fact, no provision at all.
This bill, according to the Congres-
sional Budget Office, will cost $10.2 bil-
lion, and that is during the first decade
of the seven decades that this bill ex-
tends.
I, like the chairman, would have pre-
ferred never to have to touch this bill
again because it is in honor of those
who served us, but, unfortunately, his
request that he made that this will be
the last time is not going to be true be-
cause of, inherently, the way the bill is
being passed today. We did not sit
down and get this done. The Senate
will then have to do that as we go for-
ward.
So the process is, frankly,
unfulfilling, although we need to con-
tinue to move forward. So as we look
forward to this, it is unfortunate that
we have chosen today to put risk on
this compensation, given the fact that
the Senate has got to now be a part of
this solution.
While the fiscal impact of this legis-
lation will have to be addressed before
it is signed into law, what is clear,
though, is our collective duty to see
that our first responders are treated
fairly and in accordance with what
they have already given of themselves
to a grateful nation.
I look forward to supporting this leg-
islation, and that is why I am a cospon-
sor of this legislation. I urge my col-
leagues to do so as well. But it is sad to
know that we will have to touch this
again. And time will pass before this
happens because the Senate will have
to take this up and have to do what we
should have done here and find that
pay-for in a bicameral and bipartisan
way so that we don’t have to touch this
again and those who are suffering will
know that this body is committed to
them.
I commend my chairman, and I am
glad that we are on this bill together.
I just wish that we didn’t have to touch
it again, but we are going to have to.
But that is not going to stand in the
way, today, of us honoring the names
on this bill and honoring every face
that this bill will help for those who
served us and our Nation.
I fully commend this bill to the body
of this House as we move forward
today, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY), one of the chief sponsors of
the bill.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise to urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1327,
the Never Forget the Heroes Act, and
to thank the 332 colleagues of mine
who have cosponsored this historic, bi-
partisan legislation.
When the planes hit on 9/11, our first
responders did not hesitate. Fire-
fighters, police officers, medical, con-
struction workers, and volunteers from
all around the country rushed to
Ground Zero, the Pentagon, and the
Shanksville crash sites. It was a na-
tional response to a national terrorist
attack.
We lost nearly 3,000 lives on that day,
and in the nearly 18 years since the at-
tack, the death toll continues to climb.
We, as a nation, have a moral obliga-
tion, a double moral obligation, to take
care of the people who took care of us
and those who take care of them now—
because they cannot work—first and
foremost, for their service that day and
in the days and weeks and months to
follow; and secondly, because of the
toxic lie our government told them:
that it was safe to work on the site
when it, clearly, was not. Because of
their exposure to toxins, many of them
have cancers and are sick and dying.
In 2015, Congress passed the James
Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation
Act, making the World Trade Center
Health Program permanent, but it ex-
tended the Victims Compensation Fund
only to 2020. Not only is the fund about
to expire, but making matters worse, it
is also running out of money.
In February, the special master an-
nounced that, due to more and more
claims, the fund does not have enough
money to make it to 2020. They have
had to reduce payouts by 50 to 70 per-
cent, and this is devastating for those
who depend on this fund. That is why
we need to pass the Never Forget the
Heroes Act today to fully and perma-
nently fund the Victims Compensation
Fund.
These heroes and their families can-
not wait any longer, and I hope they
will never have to come back to this
Congress again to ask again and again
for help and support for their
healthcare and their families. We need
to make this fund permanent.
If you remember 9/11, you remember
that we as a nation vowed that we
would never forget. None of us in this
coalition will rest until we have turned
that promise into a law to help the he-
roes who were there to help us.
I join my colleagues, JERRY NADLER
and PETER KING, the lead sponsors of
this bill. I thank them for their dedica-
tion and work. I thank my staff, and I
thank the heroes who are named in our
bill, Luis Alvarez, Ray Pfeifer, and
James Zadroga, for their inspiration.
I urge my colleagues to stand with
the heroes and vote for this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, it is my privilege to yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. KING).
Mr. KING of New York. Madam
Speaker, I thank the ranking member
for recognizing me, and let me also
thank the gentleman for the support
that the gentleman has given to this
bill.
When the gentleman from Georgia
went on the bill, it was a major turning
point, so I thank the gentleman for
that. It also shows that this is not a
partisan or regional issue. It affects
people in all parties, all districts in the
United States, and all States through-
out the country.
This was a major effort which the
country came together on after 9/11,
and as a result of that, there have been
casualties and deaths from all over the
country. Now, in my own district, I had
150 people killed, but I believe there
are going to be even more than that by
the time these illnesses run their
course.
There are so many people in the
prime of life who have been cut down
from these 9/11 cancers, blood dis-
orders, and the various intestinal tract
illnesses. It has just been a horrible ex-
perience to go through for all of these
people and their families.
But today is a major milestone on
the road to full justice for all those
who risked their lives both on the day
of 9/11 and in the days, weeks, and
months after 9/11: those who worked
down at the pile of Ground Zero, those
who risked their lives then and are now
suffering the consequences of that and
those who will suffer the consequences
in the years ahead. These are late-de-
veloping cancers, and that is why it is
so important that this bill be passed.
Let me stress again how bipartisan
this is. I commend JERRY NADLER and
CAROLYN MALONEY for the outstanding
work they have done. This goes back
more than 15 years that this fight has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.027 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5746 July 12, 2019
gone on in one dimension or another.
Hopefully, this will be the final strug-
gle we have. Many details have to be
worked out, but this should be it,
today, as far as finally doing what has
to be done for those men and women
from 9/11.
Let me also thank the Speaker,
NANCY PELOSI. She was instrumental in
getting this passed back in 2010, and I
want to thank the gentlewoman for
keeping her commitment to making
sure we got it done this year on a bi-
partisan basis.
Also, we have people here today like
Jake Lemonda from the UFOA, the
Uniformed Fire Officers Association,
and Gerald Fitzgerald from the Uni-
formed Firefighters Association of
Greater New York. We have people,
again, on both sides.
I want to thank my colleagues, Con-
gressman LEE ZELDIN and Congressman
FITZPATRICK from Pennsylvania, for
their efforts.
We have to, again, make sure that
the message goes out to the American
people that this is not a regional bill.
This is something that involves the en-
tire Nation. This involves the commit-
ment of the United States to always
stand with and be with those who put
their lives on the line for the rest of us.
So, again, I can’t emphasize enough
the importance of this. The men and
women out there, those people in our
districts that we see, those people who
we see day in and day out, week in and
week out, those who are suffering,
those who have had their benefits cut
because of the shortage in the fund,
that can never be allowed to happen.
We have to go forward.
And, again, I want to emphasize that
this is bipartisan. This involves the en-
tire Nation, and it is important that
we target those who are the enemies
here. The terrorists who attacked on
9/11 brought this about. They are the
ones who caused this.
It is the men and women who re-
sponded, who went back down to that
pile day after day after day, week after
week, month after month, doing what
they could in the rescue and recovery
effort, who showed unusual courage.
The least we should do is show what is
expected of us, and that is to do what
has to be done to make sure that they
and their families receive the com-
pensation that they need and are enti-
tled to. This is part of the lasting debt
America has to the men and women of
9/11 and those who worked in the days,
weeks, and months afterwards.
Madam Chair, I urge full support of
this legislation. Hopefully, when it
goes to the Senate, it will be acted on
quickly. The victims of 9/11 have been
waiting too long as it is. We can’t
allow a day to go by. I urge adoption of
the bill.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, it
gives me great pleasure to yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. PELOSI), the Speaker of the
House, someone who has done more for
this than anyone else. Without the gen-
tlewoman’s strong support, this bill
never would have passed back in 2010.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding and
for his kind remarks and for his tre-
mendous leadership.
From the first minutes of the assault
on our country, Chairman NADLER was
there to meet the needs of our country
as we protected, but also to meet the
needs of those who rushed in to save
lives.
I want to also salute Congresswoman
CAROLYN MALONEY, who has worn a
firefighters jacket through the heat of
the summer now, but all spring, until
this bill was brought up on the floor. I
thank the gentlewoman for not only
wearing the jacket, but for her relent-
less, persistent advocacy on behalf of
our 9/11 heroes.
I am so proud that this time this bill
is bipartisan, and I thank the distin-
guished gentleman, Mr. KING from New
York, for his leadership, for his rec-
ognition of the bipartisan nature of
what we are doing, what we did then
and what we are doing now. I thank the
gentleman, Mr. KING, for his leadership
as well.
H.R. 1327 is the Never Forget the He-
roes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and
Luis Alvarez Permanent Authorization
of the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund Act—a big name, a tall
order, and long overdue.
b 1100
When we talk about 9/11, we tread on
sacred ground. On that dark day, our
Nation suffered loss we could never
have imagined, and we witnessed her-
oism that we will never forget.
Because of our heroes, 9/11 is etched
in our Nation’s history not only as a
day of profound loss and tragedy but
also a day of powerful unity and resil-
ience. On September 11 and in its after-
math, our brave first responders were
there for us. We must always be there
for them.
The Never Forget the Heroes Act
takes long-overdue action to provide
the financial security and support that
9/11 heroes, survivors, and families de-
serve. Today, we are honored to take
this action to ensure that all people
suffering from illnesses related to 9/11
or by the debris removal and cleanup
efforts in their aftermath and their
families get the full awards they have
been promised.
It is critically important that we re-
store the compensation to those hit by
drastic, unfair cuts and ensure that
their claims will be fully paid in the fu-
ture.
One of the reasons that we have to
have this additional legislation is be-
cause there are so many more diag-
noses of cancer and the rest that fol-
lowed.
This bill honors the heroes after
which it is named, James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez. Those heroes
showed courage beyond measure not
only by running toward danger that
day but by giving their last days to
fight for all harmed on 9/11.
We are blessed by the presence of
members of their families and other
advocates, including first responders
suffering from 9/11-related illnesses,
here in the Capitol today. They have
done the outside organizing as we did
the inside maneuvering. They have
made the complete difference.
I thank Jon Stewart for raising the
profile of this issue so that when we
pass the bill here today, it will be re-
ceived positively by the United States
Senate.
Two weeks ago, as we all know,
America lost Luis Alvarez, an NYPD
detective and advocate who died from
9/11-related cancer. It was a holy mo-
ment for us when he testified before
Congress last month before he was
scheduled to receive his 69th round of
chemotherapy. He said then to Con-
gress: ‘‘You all said you would never
forget. Well, I’m here to make sure
that you don’t.’’
With this bill, we honor the sacrifice
of Luis and many other heroes and say:
We will never forget.
Madam Speaker, I urge a strong,
overwhelming, bipartisan vote for this
bill for our responders, survivors, and
their families and do so with eternal
gratitude to them for what they have
done. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN).
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the ranking member for his co-
sponsorship and his leadership with
this issue.
Madam Speaker, I rise today on be-
half of our 9/11 victims, first respond-
ers, and their families, urging my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the Never
Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent
Authorization of the September 11th
Victim Compensation Fund Act.
First responders who worked on the
pile day and night, aiding in the
search, rescue, and cleanup efforts,
were breathing in toxic debris and ash
that are now known to have caused
over 50 different types of cancer.
In 2011, the Zadroga Act was signed
into law to help them. Five years later,
it was permanently reauthorized and
included $4.6 billion for the 9/11 Victim
Compensation Fund, the very fund that
we are here debating today.
In February, the special master of
the fund reported that current funding
‘‘may be insufficient to compensate all
claims,’’ reporting that they would
have to cut claims by up to 70 percent.
As was noted, in the aftermath of
9/11, the EPA told New Yorkers and
these first responders that the air at
Ground Zero and the surrounding area
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.028 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5747
July 12, 2019
was safe to breathe. The Federal Gov-
ernment was wrong.
Madam Speaker, this was not a hur-
ricane or a flood or a tornado. This was
the largest terrorist attack ever on
American soil.
As Jon Stewart testified in front of
the House Judiciary Committee, these
terrorists weren’t saying ‘‘death to
Tribeca.’’ This was an attack on all of
us as Americans. We all should be vot-
ing ‘‘yes’’ today as Americans.
Yet, we are forcing sick first respond-
ers to come to Washington, D.C., to beg
for benefits that they earned and were
promised.
Last month, Luis Alvarez was one of
those first responders. After his ap-
pearance in D.C., he rushed home for
his 69th round of chemo. Unfortu-
nately, he immediately ended up in
hospice and passed away.
He shouldn’t have had to come down
here to fight on behalf of all of these
other victims and first responders in
the first place.
Month after month, year after year,
going back to the first time the
Zadroga Act was passed, how many
first responders have made dozens of
trips, educating, advocating, and pas-
sionately asking Members of Congress
for their support?
Like so many other 9/11 first respond-
ers, this was not Lou’s second or third
time. Unfortunately, it was his last.
Lou Alvarez was an extraordinary
man. What is truly extraordinary is
that his spirit and grit represent that
of each and every one of our 9/11 first
responders. Think of all of those fire-
fighters and others who rushed up to
the towers when everyone else was run-
ning away. Think of those who ignored
orders telling them to vacate the tower
because they would not leave behind
their captain.
The experience for us in the New
York area is that when we meet some-
one when we are back home in our dis-
tricts, day after day after day, people
who looked larger than life, healthy
and fit on 9/11, after going through
multiple rounds of chemo, they are los-
ing their battle. Their bodies are rid-
dled with all forms of cancer because
they exposed themselves to that harm
when the Federal Government told
them it was safe.
I thank everyone who has worked so
hard to get this bill passed, including
my colleagues CAROLYN MALONEY,
JERRY NADLER, PETE KING, and others.
I would also like to recognize the
FealGood Foundation; Jon Stewart;
Shepard Smith, for his reporting; and
so many others fighting tooth and nail
to make passage of this bill a reality.
Madam Speaker, I urge every single
one of my colleagues in this House to
vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I urge the Senate to
take up this bill immediately.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL), who is the dis-
tinguished chairman of the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I thank
my friend for yielding to me.
Madam Speaker, we all remember
where we were on that fateful day of
Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Today, we
finally make permanent our Nation’s
commitment to care for the heroes of
9/11 and their families.
We all know that within the first few
seconds of the horrific attacks on the
World Trade Center, our brave first re-
sponders rushed toward the wreckage
to help their fellow Americans. As has
been said before, many of the
9/11 first responders and the survivors
are now living with serious illnesses
due to toxic pollutants that filled the
air surrounding Ground Zero. Many of
those friends and advocates are no
longer with us.
Congress created the Victim Com-
pensation Fund in 2001, which com-
mitted to those Americans and their
families that we will take care of those
who rushed to the scene. I was proud to
be an original cosponsor of the initial
bill and its subsequent reauthoriza-
tions in 2010 and 2015.
Today, H.R. 1327 keeps Congress’
promise to our 9/11 responders and sur-
vivors.
I have never seen the New York dele-
gation work this hard and together as
we did for this bill. I thank Mr. NAD-
LER, Mrs. MALONEY, and all the people
for the hard work and their leadership
on this. We hope it gets passed soon in
the other body.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
FITZPATRICK).
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I stand here today as a former FBI
agent who worked in New York City
side by side with these very people we
are seeking to protect today. We are
here united with our colleagues from
both sides of the aisle to renew the 9/11
Victim Compensation Fund.
Madam Speaker, as was said repeat-
edly on this floor, this matter is urgent
and cannot wait any longer.
On that fateful day nearly 18 years
ago, American heroes rushed to save
their fellow citizens without regard for
their own safety. They paid a heavy
price, with many today suffering from
respiratory illnesses from breathing in
toxic dust at Ground Zero, dust that
contained lead, asbestos, mercury, and
many other contaminants.
Just last month, our Nation mourned
the loss of Detective Luis Alvarez, who
inspired us all with his visit to Capitol
Hill this year. His bravery and the
bravery of all the people who sacrificed
must be honored appropriately. In his
memory and to honor all the brave
men and women who saved lives that
day, we must get this done.
Madam Speaker, as the vice chair of
the bipartisan Problem Solvers Cau-
cus—24 Democrats and 24 Repub-
licans—we have endorsed this bill. We
worked very hard to get over the 290-
cosponsor threshold to get this on the
Consensus Calendar. It currently
stands at 332 cosponsors.
I thank Jon Stewart for elevating the
profile of this bill. It was incredibly
important for its success.
I urge all of my colleagues, Demo-
crats and Republicans alike, to come
together and support our Nation’s he-
roes. ‘‘Never forget’’ must mean never
forget.
These are people who did the opposite
of what we are all born with, as far as
our instincts go. For every single one
of us, based on our genetic DNA, are in-
stincts are to run away from danger.
These are men and women who do the
opposite. They run toward the danger
at great physical sacrifice and at great
psychological and emotional sacrifice,
all in the name of serving a cause big-
ger than themselves.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this and make this
unanimous.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES), who is the chairman of the
Democratic Caucus.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chair for yielding and for his
tremendous leadership.
Since the tragedy on September 11,
approximately 10,000 people have been
diagnosed with cancer related to toxic
smoke and dust. Approximately 15,000
people are suffering with asthma or
other respiratory illnesses. Approxi-
mately 10,000 people struggle with
PTSD. Almost 5,000 individuals are
struggling with anxiety and depression.
More than 2,000 people have died since
September 11.
The overwhelming majority of these
individuals who are sick and afflicted
are 9/11 first responders.
The Victim Compensation Fund is
expected to run out of money. In order
to take care of these brave heroes and
individuals, we vowed as a nation to
never forget. That means looking after
those brave men and women who sac-
rificed so much in the days, weeks,
months, and years after September 11.
Support this legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE).
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the ranking member and the chairman
of the full committee for their work on
this issue, and I thank all those who
worked on what has been a bipartisan
effort. This is exactly the type of sub-
stantive issue that we should be fo-
cused on in the Judiciary Committee.
On September 11, 2001, terrorists at-
tacked America and our way of life.
Nearly 3,000 people died in the attacks
in New York, northern Virginia, and
Pennsylvania.
When the shocking images of the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon
first appeared on television, first re-
sponders were already on the scene. In
the weeks and months that followed,
these first responders and construction
workers worked hard to find victims
and to clear debris.
At the time, they were told the air
was safe to breathe. They and the
American people found out later that
wasn’t true. The health impacts for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.030 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5748 July 12, 2019
those who worked and lived in lower
Manhattan in the months after the at-
tacks are real and, in many cases, have
been crippling and even deadly.
That is why Congress passed legisla-
tion in 2010 to open the 9/11 Victim
Compensation Fund to first responders,
construction workers, and others. It
covers the cost of treating illnesses as-
sociated with exposure to toxins fol-
lowing the attacks.
During the House Judiciary Sub-
committee on the Constitution, Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties hearing last
month, we heard from those suffering
from illnesses tied to their service
after the 9/11 attacks. Those who testi-
fied moved me and the Nation as they
discussed the illnesses that have beset
them nearly two decades after the at-
tacks.
I am pleased to be a cosponsor of leg-
islation to renew the 9/11 Victim Com-
pensation Fund permanently. In honor
of the sacrifices of James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez, this bill is
called the Never Forget the Heroes:
James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis
Alvarez Permanent Authorization of
the September 11th Victim Compensa-
tion Fund Act. It honors thousands of
others like them who have succumbed
to their 9/11-related illnesses.
Madam Speaker, now is the time for
us to move this bill. I urge the Senate
to pass it after the House, and I urge
the President to sign it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, how
much time is remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 91⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Geor-
gia has 51⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from California (Mr.
SWALWELL).
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Speaker, I was a congressional
intern on Capitol Hill when September
11 happened, and I saw my colleagues
go to the Capitol steps and sing, in a
bipartisan fashion, ‘‘God Bless Amer-
ica.’’ I saw a generation of people go
into service because of what they saw
our first responders do in New York,
Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C.,
that day.
I am heartened to see today on this
floor that we are uniting again to
stand up for every victim of what hap-
pened that day. I hope we can get that
passed in the Senate.
I want to honor and thank James
Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez
for their work, as well as Jon Stewart.
I thank him for bringing attention to
this. Also, I thank our colleague CARO-
LYN MALONEY.
I really want to thank our chairman.
This was Chairman NADLER’s district,
and this has been continuing casework
that the gentleman has worked on. It
has affected the gentleman, his staff,
and his constituents. I think it is fit-
ting that the gentleman is the chair-
man presiding over this today.
I am grateful the chairman has put
the emotional effort and the force of
his office into making sure this hap-
pened. It means a lot to the gentle-
man’s constituents and us as col-
leagues to see his leadership.
b 1115
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs.
DEMINGS).
Mrs. DEMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
retired from law enforcement 8 years
ago, but I am still amazed by and
grateful for the men and women who
rush towards danger with little regard
for their own safety.
First responders already do so much,
but when there is a true emergency, a
crisis, there is no one else who can do
the job. That is why, when America
was attacked on September 11, off-duty
firefighters, law enforcement officers,
and medical professionals showed up,
and they joined their brothers and sis-
ters on the front line, rushing into
burning buildings.
Being a first responder is not just
what they do, it is who they are. They
have earned our unwavering and timely
support. We cannot ask our first re-
sponders to do this job while failing to
cope with the consequences.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this critical legisla-
tion. Let us never forget our heroes.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
DEAN).
Ms. DEAN. Madam Speaker, in the
aftermath of September 11, 2001, we
saw heroism and selflessness, espe-
cially the first responders who rushed
toward danger, rescued survivors, and
then spent months cleaning up the
wreckage.
Their selflessness was on display
again last month when first responders
encouraged us, Congress, to reauthor-
ize the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund.
This Congress and I were particularly
touched by Detective Luis Alvarez,
who traveled to Washington during the
final days of his life. He said: ‘‘I’m
doing okay, but there are others out
there who aren’t doing okay.’’ Detec-
tive Alvarez embodied the selflessness
of so many.
On June 29, Detective Alvarez passed
away, but he will be remembered and
counted among those who gave their
life for us.
Before he died, he said: ‘‘The govern-
ment has to act like first responders,
you know, put politics aside and let’s
get this bill done.’’
Detective Alvarez is right, and today
we vote to permanently reauthorize
VCF. First responders and their fami-
lies must never again face uncertainty
about whether their country will be
there for them.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank our chairwoman, CAROLYN
MALONEY, in particular, and PETER
KING. From the very beginning, they
have been steadfast. And I say to you,
the angels are singing now.
We all know it took some kicking
and screaming to get this fund estab-
lished in the first place, but we got it
through because a lot of people were
here before that period of time and
gave us that support.
Firefighters are always there, but the
work isn’t over. They need our help.
Last year, the fund announced that,
due to a funding shortfall, injured and
ill 9/11 responders and survivors will re-
ceive cuts to the awards that they were
expecting—big cuts, 50 percent, 70 per-
cent—for future claims. This is unac-
ceptable.
So the all-clear sign after 9/11 from
the Federal Government was pre-
mature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from New Jersey
an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. PASCRELL. We have here today,
and we are here today to state, it will
never be clear until we help every first
responder who has suffered in running
to the tragedy. We need to act now.
Originally, this program was named
after my constituent, New York Police
Department Detective James Zadroga.
His service was exemplary.
Our friends keep dying—Mr. Alvarez,
Mr. Pfeifer. Ground Zero.
Today we show that citizens care. We
represent the citizens.
Madam Speaker, I thank this body
for bringing us here today.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to stand in
support of the heroic men and women who
ran towards the falling towers on September
11, 2001. I rise for those who labored that day
and for months in the toxic plume of Ground
Zero. And I stand here for their families who
have borne the burden of that sacrifice.
We all know it took some kicking and
screaming to get this fund established. But we
got it through and it has helped these brave
Americans focus on their personal health and
well-being. It has been critical.
But the work isn’t over. They need our help
again. Last year the fund announced that due
to a funding shortfall, injured and ill 9/11 re-
sponders and survivors will receive cuts to the
awards that they were expecting. These are
big cuts: 50 percent for pending claims and 70
percent for future claims.
Unacceptable.
We must act to make whole the responders,
survivors, and their families. The words
‘‘Never Forget’’ can’t be a bumper sticker—we
need to act now.
Thankfully, this bill extends the fund through
2090 and funds to ensure our first responders
get the care they need.
Originally this program was named after my
constituent, NYPD detective James Zadroga.
His service was exemplary.
But our friends keep dying. We have added
the names of NYPD detective Alvarez and
FDNY firefighter Pfeifer, both 9/11 heroes who
passed away from cancer and other health
problems linked to Ground Zero. Their efforts
shined a spotlight on all who are sick and
dying, and helped get the needed care from
Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.032 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5749
July 12, 2019
All three devoted their lives to helping oth-
ers.
Finally, I want to thank Congresswomen
CAROLYN MALONEY for her tireless work getting
this bill on the floor for a vote.
We cannot let another day pass to help
these brave first responders. I encourage my
colleagues to vote yes and hope the Senate
doesn’t play the same games we saw last
time. Our first responders had and have Amer-
ica’s back. Today we show, we citizen Rep-
resentatives have their back.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I thank the chairman, and I thank him
for his unbelievable leadership, along
with the gentlewoman from New York,
CAROLYN MALONEY, our dear friend,
who wore the fireman’s jacket for so
long, and PETER KING.
I am delighted to have been a mem-
ber of the Homeland Security Com-
mittee in those early days, banging my
fist and joining them in saying it must
be done.
And I thank those who signed the au-
thorization—President Obama, twice.
And I say today, there should not be
one single person who does not vote
‘‘yes’’ on this.
We have a beautiful rendition of the
World Trade Center. We rebuilt that
beautiful edifice. We must rebuild
these lives.
I am reminded in an article by Luis
Alvarez, in his final days, as he was
talking to his family, he said, ‘‘I am on
the pile.’’ They asked him what he is
walking in walking on the pile, Ground
Zero, where he went time and time
again.
And along with him, there were indi-
vidual family members who came be-
fore our committee, those who were
desperately in need, and to hear the
special master say: I may have to cut
their benefits 50 to 70 percent.
Lila Norstrom, who was a student,
and, as well, Anesta Maria St. Rose
Henry, the widow of Candidus Henry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Lila Norstrom
was a student, and she said no one told
them anything, but just go back to
school.
Anesta Maria St. Rose Henry said she
walks around missing her husband,
along with her children.
And so they are not just statistics;
they are broken lives and families. And
3,000 more will die as we go further into
this time, as 3,000 died on that date.
And for those of us who were in this
Congress on 9/11, we will never, never
forget.
To the young people today, be re-
minded of the heroes, firefighters, po-
lice officers, volunteers. Let us never
forget, and let us always remember
this bill and these heroes who are here,
and that is James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and, now, Luis Alvarez.
Madam Speaker, let us never forget,
and let us vote.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
GOTTHEIMER).
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker,
we are here today to have the backs of
our first responders, especially those
who stood up to terrorists that morn-
ing and ran directly into the burning
buildings on 9/11 and stayed for the
weeks and months that followed. They
are our heroes, and they need our help.
Hundreds of New Jersey and New
York law enforcement, firefighters,
EMTs, and others answered the call
and rushed toward the pile as others
ran out.
If you ask how they were able to
summon the courage, they will tell you
they were simply doing their job that
day. And Congress now has the oppor-
tunity to do ours.
Too many first responders are still
suffering from illnesses and cancers
from 9/11 exposure to toxins, smoke, de-
bris, including too many people who
are still suffering in my district.
Congress set up the Victim Com-
pensation Fund to help cover 9/11 inju-
ries and medical expenses. Those who
were exposed back in 2011 are, sadly,
first developing symptoms now.
More than 47,000 claims have been
filed with the fund, and more than
11,000 district claims are expected by
2020, when the fund is set to expire. We
must act today.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote in support of the bipar-
tisan H.R. 1327, Never Forget the He-
roes.
I thank Chairman NADLER, Rep-
resentative CAROLYN MALONEY, and
Representative PETER KING for their
leadership and the Problem Solvers
Caucus for strongly supporting it.
We have an obligation to do every-
thing we can to stand by our first re-
sponders and survivors of those horrific
attacks.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I will inquire through the
Chair, does the gentleman have any
more speakers?
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
have one more speaker, and then I am
prepared to close.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I will reiterate. I know our
staffs have talked. If he actually needs
it, I will be happy to yield some time,
if he happens to need it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from New York (Mr.
SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman NADLER for yielding.
Madam Speaker, this is what the
American people are hungering for:
Democrats and Republicans working
together to solve real problems in real
people’s lives.
The Victim Compensation Fund is so
important to so many people, real suf-
fering that is going on in real families
after people have dedicated their lives
trying to serve other people and are
now paying the consequences for us.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank my
colleagues. I want to thank Chairman
NADLER, Congresswoman MALONEY,
Congressman KING. I want to thank all
the Democrats and all the Republicans
who cosponsored this bill, and those
who will vote for it today.
I have so many friends, personal
friends who volunteered days, months
at the pile who are now suffering the
consequences of having done that vol-
unteer work on the pile. This is an im-
portant day for those families.
I want to thank the advocates that
helped to focus our attention. I want to
thank everyone who worked together
to solve a very real problem in real
people’s lives.
This is what the United States Con-
gress needs to be doing, and I am so
happy to be a part of it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
The names that have been talked
about in this bill, and this bill has been
named for them, especially Mr. Alva-
rez, who appeared before the com-
mittee, these are all stories and faces.
This is definitely a bill that we have
talked about many times.
We have talked about them in terms
of numbers. We have talked about
them in terms of bills and line numbers
and this kind of thing. But these are
actually lives, and I think that is the
thing that struck me, and I am glad
that there is such bipartisan support
on this.
These folks should never be forgot-
ten. They should be etched in our
memories, for those of us, no matter
where we were on 9/11, remember them
going in. I can actually watch and still
see the towers fall, knowing that at
that moment lives perished and there
were those who were saving others.
And that is what we are here for.
I will say—and I want this to be said,
because this is on the RECORD, and I
want the Senate to hear me loud and
clear—I wish we could have finished
this bill.
We are not finished with this bill, but
I am imploring Senator MCCONNELL
and the others to actually take this,
find the pay-for, get it done, and send
it back to us as quickly as possible so
that we can stamp it and send it to the
President. This needs to be done, and it
is something that has to happen.
I would encourage every Member of
this body to vote for this bill and, at
the same point, send a strong message
to the Senate to fix it: Don’t change it;
don’t dawdle with it; don’t do anything
except do your job over there. Put the
money attached to this.
We should have done that here. We
didn’t. We didn’t have a pay-for, but
they will, and we will get this done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.009 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5750 July 12, 2019
To everybody waiting on us, this is
not waiting on us. We are doing our
job. We are going to make sure these
victims are compensated, and we need
to get it done quickly. That is why I
support this. That is why I hope every-
one on our side and the Democratic
side supports this.
Madam Speaker, this has been an im-
portant part of us moving forward, re-
membering the lives that sacrificed for
us as we move forward from that tragic
day, and I appreciate everyone who has
come down to speak on that.
Again, I encourage a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
this as we move forward, and I ask the
Senate to quickly—I know that some-
times may be strange for the other
body—but to quickly do their job and
get this back to us so that we can fin-
ish this process.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, 9 years ago, I stood
here and called up for consideration
the original 9/11 bill, the James
Zadroga Act.
I want to thank Speaker PELOSI, Ma-
jority Leader HOYER, and Majority
Whip CLYBURN for their roles in passing
that bill, and now for moving us as
quickly as possible to get this bill
done.
I also want to thank my colleagues
from New York, the gentlewoman from
New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY)
and the gentleman from New York (Mr.
KING), for standing with me in this
fight for so long, and to thank all the
advocates, many of whom are here
today, who have given so much and
have worked so hard to pass this bill.
Finally, I want to thank Lisette Mor-
ton, my longtime legislative director
and director of policy planning and
member services for the Committee on
the Judiciary, who is leaving my team
at the end of this month after nearly 20
years.
Lisette worked for me on September
11, 2001, and she was tireless in her ef-
forts to get a proper detoxification and
cleanup after the attack in New York
and to hold the EPA accountable for
its failures. Without her fierce advo-
cacy and dedication, there would be
more victims today, and we would not
be here considering this bill today. She
will be greatly missed by this institu-
tion, by my staff, and by me.
Now, Madam Speaker, I urge all my
colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. NADLER. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Georgia.
b 1130
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, Mr. NADLER has just brought
up something that I cannot let pass.
Lisette is not only someone who has
given service to Mr. NADLER. She has
given a great deal of service to this
House and to me and to my staff per-
sonally.
She will be missed on both sides of
this aisle because she understands com-
pletely what this House should be
about, and that is actually service and
actually getting legislation done.
Mr. NADLER. She will be greatly
missed.
Madam Speaker, I now urge all my
colleagues to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker,
I am very proud to be a Never Forgot the He-
roes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis
Alvarez Permanent Authorization cosponsor,
along with another very strong group of bipar-
tisan Members who will not let this opportunity
to enact this legislation pass. Tragically, Mr.
Alvarez just passed away last month of after
providing heroic testifying in support of this
bill.
Everyone remembers where they were and
what they were doing. I was actually chairing
a Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing when a
group of cowards hijacked four airliners in
order to perpetrate the worst act of terrorism
in American history.
Nearly 3,000 innocent people lost their lives
that day, including 700 from my State. Who
can forget the courageous first responders
running up the stairs of the burning buildings
with total disregard for their own safety, saving
others at the expense of their own lives.
No one remembers the shock, horror, and
numbing sorrow of this day, however, more
than the families and the close friends of the
victims. I have worked with and befriended
many family members of 9/11 victims, and I
can state unequivocally that there would not
have been a 9/11 Commission and other his-
toric policy initiatives without their extraor-
dinary tenacity, commitment, and courage.
That includes what was known as the four Jer-
sey girls, widows who simply would not take
‘‘no’’ for an answer. They were a driving force
behind the establishment of that very impor-
tant historic commission.
I got to know a lot of the others. I actually
hired a school principal who lost her husband,
Alan, in 9/11, and I am reminded every time
I am in the district office, and other days as
well, what she has lost and how painful and
how sorrowful that was on that day.
For more than 17 years, the families and
the friends of those who died have had to en-
dure their loss and a broken heart. Now we
know the carnage, the consequences, the on-
going loss of life, and the health crisis attrib-
utable to 9/11 are even worse than anyone
could have imagined. New cases of 9/11-
caused conditions are being diagnosed by the
doctors at the World Trade Center Health Pro-
gram every day, with close to 12,000 cases of
9/11–caused cancers diagnosed so far, includ-
ing 700 cases of breast cancer, 2,500 of pros-
tate cancer, 600 of thyroid cancer, 500 of lung
cancer, and 500 of kidney cancer.
There have also been other kinds of cata-
strophic consequences, with people who are
suffering from PTSD, some 9,500 so far and
counting.
Congress enacted the World Trade Health
Center Program Fund and September 11th
Victim Compensation Fund to provide health
services for responders at the three crash
sites, and others in the vicinity of the World
Trade Center site for health conditions related
to toxic exposures from the attacks.
There are over 6,800 New Jerseyans re-
ceiving healthcare services from the World
Trade Center Health Program, 1,200 of whom
are from my district, constituents of mine.
In February of this year—and this was
shocking, frankly—the September 11th Victim
Compensation Fund special master an-
nounced that, due to a lack of funding, the
Justice Department will have to cut awards on
pending cases by 50 percent and any new
claims that are filed by 70 percent.
These cuts will devastate the first respond-
ers, our firemen, police, and emergency per-
sonnel. They will also represent a gross injus-
tice for survivors and their families who spent
countless hours and days in search of their
loved ones.
I remember going to the site a couple of
days after. I went with Tony Principi, who was
then the Secretary of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs. Unfortunately, there was a
sense, a falsely conveyed sense, that maybe
you didn’t have to wear the mask, so many of
those guys and those ladies on the ground
were breathing in a toxic mix of chemicals that
now have manifested into very serious dis-
ease.
This is an important bill. It is bipartisan, and
I thank my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle; Congresswoman MALONEY for her lead-
ership; and of course, all the others who are
cosponsors of this bill. I urge the Senate to
move swiftly in passing this bill so that these
heroes can secure the health care benefits
they deserve.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1327, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois). Pursuant to House
Resolution 476 and rule XVIII, the
Chair declares the House in the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for the further consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 2500.
Will the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM) kindly resume
the chair.
b 1132
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2500) to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities
of the Department of Defense and for
military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes,
with Ms. MCCOLLUM (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.035 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5751
July 12, 2019
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
the seventeenth set of en bloc amend-
ments offered by the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. SMITH) had been dis-
posed of.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
143 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 49 by Ms. LEE of
California.
Amendment No. 50 by Mr. AMASH of
Michigan.
Amendment No. 375 by Mr. TIPTON of
Colorado.
Amendment No. 386 by Mr. TURNER of
Ohio.
Amendment No. 423 by Mr. KHANNA of
California.
Amendment No. 424 by Ms. LEE of
California.
Amendment No. 425 by Ms. LEE of
California.
Amendment No. 428 by Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
Amendment No. 429 by Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ of New York.
Amendment No. 430 by Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ of New York.
Amendment No. 437 by Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi.
Amendment No. 438 by Mr.
MALINOWSKI of New Jersey.
Amendment No. 441 by Ms. JAYAPAL
of Washington.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the time for any electronic vote after
the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 49 OFFERED BY MS. LEE OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from California (Ms. LEE)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 115, noes 307,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 459]
AYES—115
Adams
Aguilar
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Butterfield
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Cummings
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kind
Kuster (NH)
Larsen (WA)
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Luján
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Massie
Matsui
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pappas
Payne
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schrader
Serrano
Speier
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Vargas
Velázquez
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—307
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bera
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pascrell
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Scalise
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Tonko
Torres Small
(NM)
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
King (NY)
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There are 5 minutes remaining.
b 1206
Messrs. MCEACHIN, SOTO, BISHOP
of Georgia, CARBAJAL,
SCHWEIKERT, NORCROSS, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Messrs.
BARR, KRISHNAMOORTHI, CARTER
of Georgia, CLOUD, GARAMENDI, Ms.
FRANKEL, Messrs. SCOTT of Virginia,
TONKO, and MORELLE changed their
vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
RUSH, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr. RICH-
MOND changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to
‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 50 OFFERED BY MR. AMASH
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. AMASH)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 187, noes 236,
not voting 15, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.037 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5752 July 12, 2019
[Roll No. 460]
AYES—187
Adams
Aguilar
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Crow
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Massie
Matsui
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Vargas
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—236
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Lipinski
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—15
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1210
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 375 OFFERED BY MR. TIPTON
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. TIPTON)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 417, noes 6,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 461]
AYES—417
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.008 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5753
July 12, 2019
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—6
Amash
Blumenauer
Garamendi
Grijalva
Keating
Lee (CA)
NOT VOTING—15
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1215
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 386 OFFERED BY MR. TURNER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. TURNER) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 201, noes 221,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 462]
AYES—201
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Lipinski
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres (CA)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—221
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—16
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1220
Ms. DELAURO changed her vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. ARMSTRONG changed his vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam Chair,
during rollcall Vote number 462 on the Turner
Amendment No. 386, I mistakenly recorded
my vote as ‘‘yes’’ when I should have voted
‘‘no’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 423 OFFERED BY MR. KHANNA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from California (Mr.
KHANNA) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.012 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5754 July 12, 2019
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 251, noes 170,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 463]
AYES—251
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—170
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Lynch
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Meeks
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1224
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 424 OFFERED BY MS. LEE OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from California (Ms. LEE)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 242, noes 180,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 464]
AYES—242
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Comer
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.045 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5755
July 12, 2019
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Cook
Cooper
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1228
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 425 OFFERED BY MS. LEE OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from California (Ms. LEE)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 237, noes 183,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 465]
AYES—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—183
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Chabot
Cheney
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Rutherford
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1232
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 428 OFFERED BY MS. GARCIA OF
TEXAS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. GARCIA)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 198, noes 223,
not voting 17, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.017 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5756 July 12, 2019
[Roll No. 466]
AYES—198
Adams
Aguilar
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—223
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Case
Casten (IL)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Malinowski
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pappas
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1237
Messrs. MALINOWSKI and RICH-
MOND changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’
to ‘‘no.’’
Ms. WEXTON changed her vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 429 OFFERED BY MS. OCASIO-
CORTEZ
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 179, noes 241,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 17, as
follows:
[Roll No. 467]
AYES—179
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—241
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.019 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5757
July 12, 2019
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scanlon
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Lipinski
NOT VOTING—17
Brady
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1242
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 430 OFFERED BY MS. OCASIO-
CORTEZ
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 173, noes 245,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 468]
AYES—173
Adams
Aguilar
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Butterfield
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Crow
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Stanton
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—245
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Demings
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Malinowski
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pappas
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Brady
Cleaver
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Roybal-Allard
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1246
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 437 OFFERED BY MR. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 213, noes 204,
not voting 21, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.020 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5758 July 12, 2019
[Roll No. 469]
AYES—213
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—204
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Speier
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—21
Beatty
Brady
Cárdenas
Cleaver
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1249
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 438 OFFERED BY MR.
MALINOWSKI
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
MALINOWSKI) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 236, noes 182,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 470]
AYES—236
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—182
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.022 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5759
July 12, 2019
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Brady
Cleaver
Duffy
Duncan
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
San Nicolas
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1253
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 441 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 230, noes 189,
not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 471]
AYES—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—189
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Trone
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—19
Brady
Cleaver
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Norton
Perlmutter
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
San Nicolas
Wright
b 1301
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. MCGOVERN).
There being no further amendments,
under the rule, the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
MCCOLLUM) having assumed the chair,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense and for military construc-
tion, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 476, he reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Pursuant to House Resolution 476,
the question on adoption of further
amendments will be put en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.023 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5760 July 12, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. THORNBERRY. I am in its
present form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Thornberry moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 2500 to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith, with the fol-
lowing amendment:
At the end of subtitle A of title III, add the
following new section:
SEC. 3ll. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR OPER-
ATION AND MAINTENANCE.
(a) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE RESERVE, as
specified in the corresponding funding table
in section 4301, for PRIMARY COMBAT
FORCES is hereby increased by $10,633,000.
(b) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE RESERVE, as
specified in the corresponding funding table
in section 4301, for DEPOT PURCHASE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE is hereby in-
creased by $10,000,000.
(c) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE RESERVE, as
specified in the corresponding funding table
in section 4301, for MISSION SUPPORT OP-
ERATIONS is hereby increased by $5,500,000.
(d) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for BASE SUPPORT is hereby increased
by $150,000,000.
(e) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,
MAINTAIN SKILLS) is hereby increased by
$40,000,000.
(f) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS
is hereby increased by $8,500,000.
(g) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for AIRLIFT OPERATIONS is hereby
increased by $6,800,000.
(h) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PRO-
GRAMS is hereby increased by $6,146,000.
(i) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING is
hereby increased by $5,000,000.
(j) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for TRAINING SUPPORT is hereby in-
creased by $4,000,000.
(k) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS is
hereby increased by $3,500,000.
(l) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS is hereby in-
creased by $78,700,000.
(m) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS is
hereby increased by $15,000,000.
(n) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for BASE SUPPORT is hereby increased by
$10,000,000.
(o) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT
AND SYSTEM SUPPORT is hereby increased
by $9,000,000.
(p) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAIN-
TENANCE is hereby increased by $7,000,000.
(q) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ANG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RES-
TORATION & MODERNIZATION is hereby
increased by $5,600,000.
(r) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RES-
TORATION & MODERNIZATION is hereby
increased by $275,000,000.
(s) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MANEUVER UNITS is hereby increased
by $76,700,000.
(t) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUP-
PORT is hereby increased by $75,000,000.
(u) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for AVIATION ASSETS is hereby increased
by $73,500,000.
(v) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT is hereby
increased by $45,000,000.
(w) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FLIGHT TRAINING is hereby increased
by $25,000,000.
(x) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUP-
PORT is hereby increased by $12,000,000.
(y) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for THEATER LEVEL ASSETS is hereby in-
creased by $8,900,000.
(z) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE is hereby
increased by $7,000,000.
(aa) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT is hereby
increased by $5,085,000.
(bb) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT
is hereby increased by $2,000,000.
(cc) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY, as specified in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.063 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5761
July 12, 2019
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES is
hereby increased by $1,300,000.
(dd) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUP-
PORT is hereby increased by $2,200,000.
(ee) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for THEATER LEVEL ASSETS is here-
by increased by $1,416,000.
(ff) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RES-
TORATION & MODERNIZATION is hereby
increased by $80,000,000.
(gg) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT is hereby
increased by $31,500,000.
(hh) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL
HEADQUARTERS is hereby increased by
$14,000,000.
(ii) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE
is hereby increased by $8,500,000.
(jj) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MANEUVER UNITS is hereby increased
by $8,000,000.
(kk) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for AVIATION ASSETS is hereby increased
by $8,000,000.
(ll) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for THEATER LEVEL ASSETS is hereby in-
creased by $2,900,000.
(mm) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES is
hereby increased by $2,000,000.
(nn) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, ARNG, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE is hereby
increased by $500,000.
(oo) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for OPERATIONAL FORCES is
hereby increased by $40,000,000.
(pp) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for BASE OPERATING SUP-
PORT is hereby increased by $34,000,000.
(qq) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for FIELD LOGISTICS is hereby
increased by $7,000,000.
(rr) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for TRAINING SUPPORT is
hereby increased by $2,300,000.
(ss) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND
MODERNIZATION is hereby increased by
$100,000,000.
(tt) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPER-
ATIONS is hereby increased by $51,000,000.
(uu) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPER-
ATIONS is hereby increased by $50,000,000.
(vv) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for FLEET AIR TRAINING is hereby in-
creased by $50,000,000.
(ww) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for WEAPONS MAINTENANCE is hereby in-
creased by $29,037,000.
(xx) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for AVIATION LOGISTICS is hereby in-
creased by $22,000,000.
(yy) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING is
hereby increased by $20,000,000.
(zz) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPER-
ATIONS is hereby increased by $15,000,000.
(aaa) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES is hereby
increased by $10,000,000.
(bbb) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT is
hereby increased by $7,500,000.
(ccc) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUP-
PORT is hereby increased by $1,200,000.
(ddd) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY, as specified in the
corresponding funding table in section 4301,
for EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND
DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT is hereby
increased by $5,600,000.
(eee) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4301, for MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OP-
ERATIONS is hereby increased by $15,000,000.
(fff) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for OFFICE OF THE SEC-
RETARY OF DEFENSE is hereby increased
by $7,000,000.
(ggg) INCREASE.—Notwithstanding the
amounts set forth in the funding tables in di-
vision D, the amount authorized to be appro-
priated in section 301 for OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE, as speci-
fied in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, for DEFENSE LOGISTICS
AGENCY is hereby increased by $5,000,000.
At the end of subtitle C of title IV, add the
following new section:
SEC. 4ll. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR MILITARY
PERSONNEL.
Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in
the funding tables in division D, the amount
authorized to be appropriated in section 421
for MILITARY PERSONNEL, as specified in
the corresponding funding table in section
4401, for MILTARY PERSONNEL APPRO-
PRIATIONS is hereby increased by
$309,020,000.
At the end of subtitle A of title VI, add the
following new section:
SEC. 6ll. INCREASE IN BASIC PAY.
(a) INCREASE IN BASIC PAY.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of this Act, ef-
fective on January 1, 2020, the rates of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.028 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5762 July 12, 2019
monthly basic pay for members of the uni-
formed services are increased by four per-
cent.
(b) WAIVER OF SECTION 1009 ADJUSTMENT.—
The adjustment under section 1009 of title 37,
United States Code, to the rates of basic pay
for members of the uniformed services shall
not be made during fiscal year 2020.
(c) INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR MILITARY
PERSONNEL.—Notwithstanding the amounts
set forth in the funding tables in division D,
the amount authorized to be appropriated in
section 421 for MILITARY PERSONNEL, as
specified in the corresponding funding table
in section 4401, for MILTARY PERSONNEL
APPROPRIATIONS is hereby increased by
$650,000,000.
Mr. THORNBERRY (during the read-
ing). Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that the motion be considered
as read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
this motion is the last opportunity to
amend the bill, and it does so, of
course, without delaying passage. The
bill, as it was considered in committee,
authorized $733 billion for defense.
Thanks to the work of General Bacon,
the committee added $2.3 billion for
disaster aid, and then the Rules Com-
mittee added the widow’s tax, Afghan
visas, and other items that brought the
total up to about $737 billion.
This amendment takes one more in-
cremental step to fill essential funding
gaps in the way that matters most to
the troops. It restores $1.6 billion of
readiness for things like repairs to F–
15s of which only 59 percent are flyable
today, and it restores money for train-
ing, the things that matter most in
saving the lives of our men and women.
It restores $308 million to the personnel
account. Now, that is not as much as
the Pentagon asked for, but it does
take it up to the level that passed the
Senate by a vote of 86–8.
Finally, it provides a 4 percent pay
raise for the troops.
Now, remember, Madam Speaker, the
current underlying bill does nothing
for pay. The formula is as it is, and
those Members who have claimed the
underlying bill did something have got-
ten three Pinocchios over it.
Well, this underlying measure does
do something. It provides a 4 percent
pay raise to help with recruitment and
retention and to send a message to our
troops that we value them.
Now that is it, straight up the mid-
dle, three things, you either vote for
them or you vote against them.
It takes the total authorization to
just about $740 billion. That is not
enough in my opinion, but it is better.
Madam Speaker, I yield such time as
he may consume to the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. BANKS), who is a vet-
eran of the war in Afghanistan.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I was
proud to serve my country in uniform
in Afghanistan, and now I am proud to
serve in this Congress. I am proud to
serve in a new and different way on
what has historically been the most bi-
partisan committee, the House Armed
Services Committee. Truth be told, I
had expected that this committee
above all other committees would al-
ways work together in support of our
national security.
After all, for over 50 years this com-
mittee and this Congress have risen
above partisan politics and passed the
National Defense Authorization Act.
Sadly, today it appears that tradition
might come to an end.
Madam Speaker, it doesn’t have to be
that way. This motion is an oppor-
tunity for my friends on both sides of
the aisle to rise above petty partisan
politics and do what the American peo-
ple sent us here to do: to support our
troops and defend our homeland.
This year the NDAA has unfortu-
nately become the Nondefense Author-
ization Act and instead has been hi-
jacked with a partisan political agen-
da, unlike the last couple of years
when we all actually worked together
to restore military readiness.
At a time when our enemies are chal-
lenging us on the world stage, we sim-
ply cannot put our troops at risk and
jeopardize our national security, which
is exactly what the underlying bill
would do.
Let us show the American people the
leadership they deserve. Let us give
our troops the raise they have earned.
Let us restore readiness and pass a
worthy National Defense Authorization
Act.
Madam Speaker, mark my words,
this is the moment of truth for this
Congress. This is the single most defin-
ing moment of this Congress so far.
This motion is an opportunity to show
the American people that we can rise
above petty partisan politics.
Will my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle really vote against a well-
earned pay raise for our troops or for
bolstering our readiness accounts?
Madam Speaker, our soldiers, our
sailors, our airmen, and our marines
deserve better. The American people
deserve better.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
it is straight up: pay raise, restore per-
sonnel accounts, and improve readi-
ness. It is straight up or down. You are
for it or against it.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Speaker, I rise in opposition to the mo-
tion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. We have
worked in a bipartisan fashion, and the
worst part about it is they all know
that because we spent 6 months—my
staff and your staff—working together
to produce this bill.
The only petty partisanship on this
bill is coming purely from the Repub-
lican Party that will put their partisan
desires against voting for it.
Why?
Because Democrats are in charge. As
we have seen time and again on this
floor, no matter how much we work
with them and how much we cooperate
with them, at the end of the day, par-
tisanship trumps all. They will not
vote for anything Democrats do, in-
cluding, by the way, in this bill we
have the largest pay raise for our
troops in 10 years, and Republicans are
going to vote against that pay raise.
We have in this bill money for wid-
ows. The Republicans have cosponsored
this bill for 10 years, telling us how
much they care about making sure
that the widows of our troops get
money, and now that we do it, after 10
years we put it in the bill, they are
going to vote against it just so they
can say that Democrats don’t support
national security.
There is $733 billion in this bill, the
largest Defense bill in the history of
the country, and it is not enough. The
response is that it can always be more.
No matter what it is, they are going to
say do more. The Pentagon is appar-
ently the only place in the country
where Republicans feel that you can
throw money at the problem relent-
lessly.
This body has raised pay for our
troops every single year, and, again, I
will simply close by saying that we
have the largest pay raise in 10 years in
this bill for our troops.
We have worked in a bipartisan man-
ner. It is easy to say: well, I am going
to vote ‘‘no’’ and therefore it is par-
tisan.
There is no good reason for it. This
should be a bipartisan bill. It supports
our troops, and it supports our national
security.
Madam Speaker, I yield the balance
of my time to the gentlewoman from
New Jersey (Ms. SHERRILL), who is a
Navy veteran who has fought for our
country as well and is a member of the
Armed Services Committee.
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to oppose the motion to re-
commit. As a veteran and as an Amer-
ican, I urge all of you to put the polit-
ical games aside, put our troops and
our country first, and pass this defense
bill.
For 58 years straight, this Congress
has come together across party lines to
pass a bipartisan National Defense Au-
thorization Act. This critical piece of
legislation ensures Congress has a say
in the mission of our military, the poli-
cies of our Department of Defense, and
the safety and security of our women
and men in the field.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to
serve on the House Armed Services
Committee, and I thank the chairman,
the ranking member, all the leaders,
and all of my colleagues for their dedi-
cation to our military and to our na-
tional security.
As a U.S. Navy veteran who served
for almost 10 years, I am proud to be
part of the new class of veterans and
national security professionals who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.028 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5763
July 12, 2019
have worked on this bill in committee.
We know what it is like to rely on Con-
gress to execute our mission and to
keep our country safe, so we must pass
the National Defense Authorization
Act in this House. We must make sure
that the vitally important priorities
included in this House bill make it to
the President’s desk, and we must show
the country that our disagreements are
nothing compared to our tradition of
crossing party lines and supporting the
National Defense Authorization Act.
And don’t take my word on the im-
portance of this bill. Take it from a Re-
publican and a fellow Naval Academy
graduate, who said:
How do we explain to Americans who are
risking their lives for us that we could not
summon the courage to take some hard
votes?
How do we explain that we could not come
together and work together when it
mattered most?
The fundamental purpose of this legisla-
tion, which has united Members from both
sides of the aisle, is to provide our Armed
Forces what they need to do the jobs we ask
of them.
Madam Speaker, John McCain knew
this must be an area of bipartisan sup-
port, and this MTR is an attempt to
strip away that bipartisanship, to in-
ject the broken politics of Washington
into a bill that should be bigger than
your political party.
The NDAA fully funds a 3.1 percent
pay raise for U.S. military personnel,
exactly what the President asked for.
Madam Speaker, this is the largest pay
increase since 2010, the last time the
Democrats were in power.
My colleagues had almost 10 years
and, more recently, 21 hours of markup
and 28 hearings to discuss this very
issue, but not one of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle brought this
issue up in committee. This last-second
partisan motion undercuts the hard
work of the House Armed Services
Committee, which passed the largest
pay raise for our troops in years.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, a 5-minute
vote on the motion to recommit will be
followed by a 5-minute vote on passage
of H.R. 2500, if ordered, and the motion
to suspend the rules and pass H.R. 1327.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 204, noes 212,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 472]
AYES—204
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—212
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—16
Brady
Cleaver
Clyburn
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Roe, David P.
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1321
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 220, noes 197,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 473]
AYES—220
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.065 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5764 July 12, 2019
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—197
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Espaillat
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lee (CA)
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pocan
Posey
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Brady
Cleaver
Clyburn
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Roe, David P.
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1327
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, on July
12, 2019, the House voted to pass the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for FY 2020.
I missed the vote and was not recorded due
to a previously scheduled engagement in Wis-
consin with President Trump. Had I been
present I would have voted no on Roll Call
473.
f
NEVER FORGET THE HEROES:
JAMES ZADROGA, RAY PFEIFER,
AND LUIS ALVAREZ PERMANENT
AUTHORIZATION OF THE SEP-
TEMBER 11TH VICTIM COM-
PENSATION FUND ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1327) to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 402, nays 12,
not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 474]
YEAS—402
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.026 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5765
July 12, 2019
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—12
Amash
Arrington
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Cloud
Gosar
Harris
Hice (GA)
Massie
Norman
Rose, John W.
NOT VOTING—19
Brady
Cleaver
Clyburn
Doggett
Duffy
Fudge
Gabbard
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Khanna
Lawrence
Perlmutter
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Wright
b 1336
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to extend authoriza-
tion for the September 11th Victim
Compensation Fund of 2001 through fis-
cal year 2092, and for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I was unable to complete the
vote series on July 12 as I needed to re-
turn to my district to support prepara-
tions ahead of Tropical Storm Barry.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 468, ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 469, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
470, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 471, ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 472, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
473, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 474.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 2500, NA-
TIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the Clerk be authorized to make tech-
nical corrections in the engrossment of
H.R. 2500, including corrections in
spelling, punctuation, section and title
numbering, cross-referencing, con-
forming amendments to the table of
contents and short titles, the insertion
of appropriate headings; and to provide
instructions that amendment No. 234
printed in part B of House Report 116–
143 be inserted at the end of subtitle G
of title 28, and that the instruction in
amendment No. 64 printed in part B of
House Report 116–143 be changed from
‘‘page 387, after line 7’’ to ‘‘page 387,
after line 15.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MORELLE). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Wash-
ington?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the Born-Alive bill so we can stand
up and protect the sanctity of human
life, and I would ask all others to join
in that request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend, the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER),
the distinguished majority leader of
the House.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, before I get into the
schedule, I know that all of our
thoughts are with my good friends in
Louisiana and my good friend who rep-
resents Louisiana, his constituents,
and the people of Louisiana as they
brace for Tropical Storm Barry, ex-
pected to make landfall tomorrow.
This is a serious storm, and, when
combined with the flooding we have al-
ready seen along the Mississippi, it
poses a serious threat to the safety and
welfare of many.
We hope everyone is safe and taking
the necessary steps to get out of
harm’s way, and I want the gentleman
from Louisiana to know how much we
are paying attention to his constitu-
ents in the State he represents and the
region he represents.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I truly
appreciate the concern, support, and
prayers that have been offered. Obvi-
ously, we are all praying for the people
of south Louisiana as Tropical Storm
Barry approaches. In the next 24 hours,
we expect landfall. We are surely ex-
pecting heavy rain.
I know, as I have talked to local offi-
cials, from the Governor to the mayor
of New Orleans and other elected offi-
cials on the ground, they are prepared.
They have asked for different things,
including the Governor had asked for
an emergency declaration.
I spoke to President Trump yester-
day, and he did, in fact, issue that
emergency declaration. So, all of the
Federal agencies, from FEMA to the
Corps of Engineers, to other Federal
agencies, are working well with State
and local officials to make sure they
have the tools they need.
Our first priority, of course, is the
safety of the people of south Louisiana.
As they protect their homes and pro-
tect their property, we just encourage
them to listen to their local officials,
and, if evacuation orders are issued, we
ask those folks to heed those warnings
because it is a serious storm. And it is
a storm that we are preparing for, but,
as they say, you prepare for the worst
but hope for the best, and we are doing
all of that.
I appreciate the gentleman’s con-
cerns.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
Mr. HOYER. I know the gentleman is
concerned. We share that concern, and
we share the concern for the people of
south Louisiana.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, the House
will meet at noon for morning-hour de-
bate, 2 p.m. for legislative business,
with votes postponed until 6:30 p.m.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate and noon for legislative
business.
On Thursday, the House will meet at
9 a.m. for legislative business. Last
votes of the week are expected no later
than 3 p.m. on that Thursday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.031 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5766 July 12, 2019
b 1345
Mr. Speaker, we will consider several
bills under suspension of the rules, in-
cluding H.R. 748, Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019. A com-
plete list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by the close of business today.
The House will consider H.R. 3494, the
Intelligence Authorization Act. I am
pleased to say that the bill was ap-
proved by unanimous voice vote in
committee and would authorize fund-
ing and enable congressional oversight
of the U.S. intelligence community.
Mr. Speaker, the House will also con-
sider a resolution to hold Attorney
General Barr and Secretary Ross in
contempt over efforts to ignore con-
gressional subpoenas and subvert the
2020 Census with the addition of a citi-
zenship question meant only to deter
minorities from participating, leading
to an undercount in parts of the coun-
try.
In addition, the House will also con-
sider S.J. Res. 36, S.J. Res. 37, and S.J.
Res. 38.
Mr. Speaker, last month, the Senate
passed 22 resolutions of disapproval re-
lated to the Saudi-UAE arms sale for
which the administration declared an
emergency, thereby bypassing the Con-
gress of the United States. The House
will take up three of these resolutions
related to precision-guided munitions,
the most controversial and significant
sales contemplated.
Lastly, the House will consider H.R.
582, Raise the Wage Act. This legisla-
tion, authored by Chairman SCOTT,
would gradually increase the minimum
wage to $15 by 2024. This bill is an im-
portant step toward lifting millions of
American workers out of poverty.
We believe that one should not be
working a 40-hour week and still re-
main under the poverty level in our
country. We raise the minimum wage
for the first time in nearly a decade,
essentially, 10 years.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, as we
look at the calendar next week and,
specifically, the bill dealing with the
minimum wage, I would ask the gen-
tleman if he has looked at some of the
studies that have been done, as well as
some of the other actions.
If you look at the city of Baltimore,
they had proposed and actually passed
a $15 minimum wage, and the Demo-
cratic mayor of Baltimore vetoed that,
specifically citing the job losses that
would come with that kind of change.
The CBO report that just came out a
few days ago, as the majority leader
knows, cited that you could have up to
3.7 million jobs lost in America if that
bill were to pass.
Mr. Speaker, we have a growing econ-
omy, a robust, growing economy. We
are the envy of the world right now
with our economy. People at every in-
come level are receiving the benefits of
that in terms of higher wages and more
jobs—in fact, more job openings today
than there are Americans looking for
work.
This is the kind of opportunity we
want for all people. In fact, as we are
seeing, people at even the lower in-
come, entry-level job levels are the
ones benefiting the most from the tax
cuts and the growing economy we have
as a result of it.
So why, I would ask, would we want
to reverse course and pass legislation
that not only studies estimate would
devastate low-income people—literally,
the entire State of Oklahoma, 3.7 mil-
lion people, eviscerated job losses.
That many job losses would come from
this bill passing.
You don’t need to just look at esti-
mates. You can actually look at what
happened in the city of Seattle.
Mr. Speaker, in 2014, the city of Se-
attle instituted a similar $15 minimum
wage. So now, we have a few years of
actual data to look at what happened
in a city like Seattle.
Mr. Speaker, the University of Wash-
ington did a detailed study of that min-
imum wage increase. What they found
were similarly devastating numbers for
low-income workers, the same people
who would be hurt by the bill that the
majority is going to be bringing up
next week.
In fact, what the University of Wash-
ington study found was that you had
roughly 3 million work hours lost, 5,000
jobs lost. They, in fact, found that the
cost to low-wage workers in Seattle
outweighed the benefits by a margin of
3-to-1, devastating low-income workers
the most.
If you look at not what might happen
if we do this at the Federal level—
where the estimates are we would lose
3.7 million jobs in America, mostly
hurting lower income, entry-level jobs,
those jobs where we want people to be
able to get started to become part of
the middle class, to become part of the
American Dream, and taking that
away from them—go look at what they
did in Seattle when they actually did
this, not when they talked about it,
but when they did it, 3 years of data.
The study showed it was devastating to
low-income people.
I would hope that the gentleman has
looked at some of this, the concerns
that we have expressed along the way,
and the recent CBO score that has un-
derlined how bad and devastating this
would be to low-income workers.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his observations. He,
I think, told a partial story of the CBO
study and some other studies. Of
course, he mentioned the city of Balti-
more.
The problem with the city of Balti-
more, as the mayor who vetoed it indi-
cated, was that next door, the min-
imum wage was lower. Had the min-
imum wage been the same, there would
not have been the same transfer, I sug-
gest to the gentleman.
That aside, he mentions the CBO re-
port on the impact of gradually raising
the minimum wage to $15 an hour. The
minimum wage was last raised in 2007.
It then incrementally raised over 3
years to the present $7.25. It has not
been raised in a decade. The poorest
workers in America have not had a
raise in 10 years.
We don’t think that is right, as we
see this extraordinary disparity of in-
come, where presidents of corporations
now are making 1,500 times what their
average worker makes.
Very frankly, we are a consumer-
based economy. Seventy percent of our
GDP is based upon consumers. If we
raise their salaries, they are going to
spend more, grow the economy, and, I
suggest, grow jobs, not shrink jobs.
Let’s look at the CBO study. The
CBO study had a number of different
averages that were perceived, three of
which were zero loss of jobs. 3.7 million
was the maximum, not the average, the
maximum loss.
I am not surprised that opponents of
raising the minimum wage would point
to that as if it were the figure. It is a
maximum, the worst-case scenario.
We have a growing economy. I don’t
expect the worst-case scenario to
occur. The fact of the matter is that we
believe that this bill and this raise will
have little, if any, adverse impact.
What we do know is this, which the
gentleman did not mention. CBO said
the bill will give 27 million workers in
America a raise, and that the worst-
case scenario—we don’t want to see
anybody lose their job—would be 3.7
million, but the average would be less
than 2 million. That was their average
estimate, and three of them were zero.
We believe that 27 million Ameri-
cans, which will lift 1.3 million Ameri-
cans out of poverty, is something that
will be good for America. It will be
good not only for those workers but
good for business, for families, for chil-
dren, and, frankly, for all of us.
The benefits of the Raise the Wage
Act for America’s workers, in our opin-
ion, far outweigh any potential risk.
We think the risk is minimal.
More than 10 years with no increase
in the Federal minimum wage, I might
point out, Mr. Speaker, is the longest
period since the adoption of the min-
imum wage in 1938, the longest period
we have gone without raising the min-
imum wage.
Mr. Speaker, it has been 10 years
since we Democrats were in the major-
ity. I point that out because the last
time we were in the majority, we
passed and, very frankly, President
Bush signed the raise that was to $7.25
an hour. But this is the longest time in
history it hasn’t been raised.
The Raise the Wage Act is a critical
step, in my view, toward restoring the
value of work and ensuring that work-
ing families—we all say we are for
working families. Well, we ought to
pay them, and we ought to pay them a
decent wage.
By the way, this raise is probably a
very, very infinitesimal percentage of
the raises that those at the upper level,
in the top 10 percent and the top 5 per-
cent, have received.
This will allow working families to
achieve some type of financial secu-
rity. We believe that is essential.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.074 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5767
July 12, 2019
We are very pleased that this bill is
moving forward, and we urge all of our
Members to support it.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
first like to point out it is not we who
are paying those wages. It is small
businesses, small and medium-sized
businesses that are paying those wages
to workers.
What we have seen from the current
economy, from cutting taxes, not from
the government coming in and saying
we are going to have some $15 min-
imum wage that has been proven in
other places to eviscerate jobs, to kill
jobs and hurt lower-income people,
with our current economy, because of
cutting taxes, lower income people are
benefiting the most. They are seeing
wages go up. They are actually seeing
wages go up, and the data shows that.
That is why you are seeing such
strong economic numbers right now,
because the tax cuts are benefiting peo-
ple at every income level, especially at
the lower income levels.
When you talk about the jobs that
would be lost, if we split it in the mid-
dle, if we go with the median of the
study, that is 1.3 million jobs lost.
Don’t take my number. Don’t take
your number. Take the median number
in the study, 1.3 million jobs. That is
the entire State of Maine losing their
jobs.
What we have also seen is that small
businesses, as minimum wages go to a
higher level, look at automating jobs,
which means those jobs go away.
It is the low-income workers, the
first job for many people, their first
entry into opportunity where they can
then become a homeowner, then be-
come part of the American Dream,
those are hit the hardest. In fact, the
study shows that this bill would reduce
family income by $9 billion.
I know we can look at it from dif-
ferent sides, but, again, if you just
took the median, split the difference
between your numbers and mine, you
end up with 1.3 million jobs lost and
devastation for a lot of people at the
lower incomes.
The Seattle study shows not theory
but what really did happen in a city
like Seattle where they did this. By a
3-to-1 margin, low-income people were
hit the hardest and hit very hard in a
negative way.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I would simply say that he said the
entire State of Maine. Maybe he missed
the fact that I said 27 million people,
under this bill, are going to get an in-
crease in their salary and in their abil-
ity to support themselves and their
families. That, by the way, is about the
size, perhaps, of New York. It is not
quite California, which is 38 or 39 mil-
lion people. But 27 million are going to
get a raise.
My suggestion is, and I believe this
sincerely, that that increase and raise,
because they are consumers, those con-
sumers all spend their spendable
money. They need it to support them-
selves, and that is going to be an infu-
sion.
When the gentleman says small busi-
ness, I understand that. We all pay it
in the end because the consumer of
services and goods is who will pay it.
We understand that. But not paying it
perhaps advantages us because some
families can’t support themselves and,
very frankly, may be on public assist-
ance, so we pay for it one way or the
other.
This is the right thing to do. Twenty-
seven million Americans, that is about
a sixth, I think, of our workforce,
somewhere in that neighborhood, are
going to get a raise under this bill.
I hope that the estimate of 1.3 mil-
lion is wrong. I think it is wrong, as I
explained. If everybody is doing the
same, then the employer that needs to
have things done is going to get those
things done. He or she will be on a
competitive level because others will
be doing the same thing, in terms of
the level of pay. They won’t be com-
peting with people who are paying
their folks at a very low level, and peo-
ple will be able to survive.
I understand the gentleman’s posi-
tion. By the way, I would say the gen-
tleman’s argument has been made
since 1938.
b 1400
Every time the minimum wage came
up for increase, we have heard this. I
didn’t hear it in ‘38, I want to make
that very clear. But that argument has
been made every time the minimum
wage, while I have been involved in
this floor over the last 30 years, has
been made. And I suggest to you, as a
result of the raising of the minimum
wage, our economy has been better, it
has grown more, people have been bet-
ter off, and we have had a better coun-
try.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, when we
talk about the 27 million, let’s keep in
mind that, as you look at what they
studied on the impacts, it is the lower
income workers, as the wages might
even go up.
And, by the way, wages are already
going up today. Without this bill,
wages, real wages, are going up and es-
pecially benefiting the lower income,
the entry-level jobs.
What President Trump wanted to do
to rebuild our middle class that was
evaporating—it, literally, was going
away. We were losing our middle class
to foreign countries because we were
not competitive as a nation. And now
we are competitive—not only competi-
tive, but the envy of the world, the eco-
nomic leader of the world.
Again, why would we want to bring a
bill that would devastate?
And so those 27 million people, if you
look again at the Seattle study, what
they showed was that the cost to low-
wage workers in Seattle outweighed
the benefits by a ratio of 3 to 1.
So even for those people who were
getting a higher wage because other
costs went up and their hours went
down, the amount of time they were
able to work was reduced, it actually
had a devastating impact to those low-
income workers.
So on one hand it might sound really
good: Hey, you are going to get a high-
er wage; but, Oh, by the way, we are
not going to be able to give you as
many hours to work. And you saw that
over and over again in the study, it
showed millions of hours lost.
So somebody that is working two
jobs, struggling to get by because they
want to become part of the middle
class, today they are actually seeing a
wage increase if that was evaporated
because of this.
Even for the people who would see a
higher wage, the costs to them would
be more devastating by a 3-to-1 margin
if you go by what actually did happen
in Seattle when they did it.
So that is why I just say that study
would be important to look at, because
it doesn’t show just in theory, which
the CBO has a lot of good underlying
data to back up with, but then Seattle
is where it really did happen and it was
devastating to lower income workers.
If the gentleman had anything else
on this, I would yield back. I did want
to bring up another issue, though, but
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I think we have exhausted that sub-
ject. I think the positions have not
changed since 1938, and I don’t expect
them to change in the next few min-
utes.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, maybe
next week as this debate continues, we
will see if I can be more persuasive
with my friend, but likely not, but at
least we ought to have that debate and
at least get these sides out and aired.
Now, I do want to talk about some-
thing where I do think we have agree-
ment but maybe a lack of under-
standing of a timeline, and that is the
United States-Mexico-Canada trade
agreement. And we have had many
meetings. I know we were in a meeting
together with the Prime Minister,
Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada. We
know our friends in Mexico want this.
Our friends in Canada really want this.
We want this, too.
With only 8 legislative days left be-
fore the August recess, could the gen-
tleman give an indication if there is
the ability to include USMCA on the
calendar in these next 2 weeks that we
have available?
And I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
We did have a meeting, and in a bi-
partisan fashion, I think we are all
hopeful that we can pass the USMCA.
I was here when we passed NAFTA,
as was the Speaker. There were a num-
ber of promises made, as the gentleman
knows from his knowing experience of
NAFTA. We are very focused, as the
gentleman knows, on workers’ rights,
environmental protections, the price of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.075 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5768 July 12, 2019
biologics, and the length of time that
they would be protected from generic
competition and bringing prices down.
But we are, as we discussed in the
meeting to which the gentleman re-
ferred where we met with the Prime
Minister of Canada, Mr. Trudeau, and
many of his Cabinet, we are very con-
cerned about enforcement. We want to
say if we make this agreement that it
will, in fact, be enforced. And, as the
gentleman knows, there were meetings
as late as yesterday on this issue.
The good news is, as the gentleman
probably knows, Ambassador
Lighthizer has great respect and con-
fidence on both sides of the aisle. I
would say that he is one of those peo-
ple who both sides of the aisle believe
is credible, knowledgeable, straight-
forward and an honest broker. So we
are working very hard with him.
Almost every Democrat has said we
are trying to get to ‘‘yes’’ on this. I
don’t think you have heard many
Democrats, if any, say we are not for
this agreement.
So I am hopeful that we can get
there, personally. I think this is an im-
provement over the existing NAFTA.
I would say, however, that I think it
would be a mistake if, in fact, we don’t
get to an agreement, which I hope we
will, to back out of NAFTA, as the
President has indicated. I think that
would cause chaos in our economy and
with respect to Canada and Mexico, as
well. So I think that would not be a
good policy. But I think a good policy
would be, if we can get enforcement
and the assurances that the agree-
ments that are made will, in fact, be
carried out by all parties, then, hope-
fully, we can get this done.
Whether we can get this done by the
August break, I can’t make that rep-
resentation to the gentleman, which
does not surprise him, I am sure. But I
can tell you, yesterday, as you know,
there was work being done on it, and I
trust that there will be work being
done on it in the coming days. And if
we can get to an agreement, we will
move it as quickly as possible.
But we may need to make sure that
the protections that are referenced in
the document will, in fact, be the pro-
tections that are affected and enforce-
able.
I thank the gentleman.
Mr. SCALISE. I thank the gen-
tleman, and I share the same senti-
ment that Ambassador Lighthizer has
done a great job of working with Mem-
bers on both sides to address questions,
concerns, find ways to make sure that
those concerns are addressed, whether
they are already inside the agreement
or if there are other things that can be
done to double underscore and high-
light those concerns.
But, in the meantime, hopefully, we
can move beyond trying to get to yes
and actually have a bill where we can
whip that and get to yes. I know we
have a whip team that I have put to-
gether on our side that is ready to go
and, hopefully, your side will be able to
get there.
It would be ideal if we can do that be-
fore we recess. Clearly, that is not the
only way to get this done, but we do
have to respect, as well, that the other
countries, our friends, Mexico and Can-
ada, have an interest in this, as well.
Canada has elections coming up. We
don’t want to have this jeopardized and
become something that gets pushed be-
hind their national elections. Ideally,
we can get it done well in advance of
their elections and respect the fact
that they would like this done, as well,
and the good will that is being created
between our three countries.
So I am hopeful that we can get
through these final issues, get a bill
that we can bring to the floor, work to-
gether to pass, and then see the bene-
fits in our economy, see an improved
NAFTA, a bill that is better for Amer-
ican workers and opening up more ac-
cess to markets in Canada and Mexico
that right now are closed.
So I thank the gentleman for the en-
couragement, and I remain hopeful, as
well, and would continue to encourage
that we get this done as quickly as pos-
sible.
Finally, on the NDAA bill that we
just finished, we had, of course, dis-
agreement on a number of fronts in
terms of the priorities of our military,
but I would want to bring up one point,
and that was the piece of legislation,
the Military Surviving Spouses Equity
Act by our colleague, JOE WILSON.
When you all took the majority, you
created a new mechanism for Members
to bring bills to the floor called the
Consensus Calendar. This was the first
bill that actually met that criteria, in
fact, far exceeded the 290 signatures—
he had 365 cosponsors, incredibly bipar-
tisan—to address a real serious prob-
lem for spouses of men and women in
uniform who died fighting for our coun-
try, to make sure that an inequity is
corrected that we both agree needs to
be fixed.
Here is a bill that can quickly get to
the President’s desk, and maybe it gets
included in other pieces of legislation
that might come months away, but
here is a bill where a Member worked
in good faith, under the rules that were
created, and it was unfortunate that
the rule to bring the NDAA bill to the
floor turned off the Consenus Calendar
specifically for that bill, that one bill
which happened to be the first bill that
met that requirement.
I would just ask if the gentleman
could maybe look again at bringing
that bill to the floor as a standalone
bill in respect of the hard bipartisan
work that Congressman WILSON made
to address a serious problem for
spouses, widows of our men and women
who die in uniform.
Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman
for his comment, JOE WILSON, of
course, a member of his party.
JOE WILSON filed that bill five Con-
gresses ago, 8 years ago, and it lan-
guished. It was not brought to the
floor. It did not pass.
I understand the gentleman’s con-
cern, but he ought to also reflect upon
the fact that JOE WILSON introduced it
four Congresses ago, so that we have
now included it in the bill. We think it
was a proper provision to have in our
bill.
Of course, all your people voted
against that bill, and I would observe,
they voted against a bill that, frankly,
the chairman of your committee, now
the ranking member, wrote an op-ed in
The Wall Street Journal that said the
appropriate level of funding was ex-
actly what we put in our bill. The
Joint Chiefs of Staff said that the fig-
ure for 2020 was 733.
I was deeply regretful that a bill
which was the figure that Mr. THORN-
BERRY put forward in an editorial in
The Wall Street Journal—and, I might
say, I had conversations with him sub-
sequent to that, recently, which con-
firmed to me that he still held that
view.
Notwithstanding that, every one of
your Republicans voted against it. And
it was the largest—there was this com-
plaint about the size of the military
pay raise. It was the largest raise for
our military in 10 years. Now, we were
in charge 10 years ago and we are now
back in charge, which means we have
had the two largest raises, and that
was included in your MTR.
Mr. Speaker, I would hope the whip
would, as we do so often, work in a bi-
partisan fashion on these issues. The
committee did work in a bipartisan
fashion. I am very disappointed that
this was made a political issue. Mr.
Speaker, it was made a political issue
on the theory that maybe the Demo-
crats can’t pass this bill, and if we all
vote against it, we will say: Look, the
Democrats don’t support defense.
Mr. Speaker, we did pass that bill.
We passed it with over 218 votes—220,
to be exact—and it included some very,
very important things for our men and
women in uniform, for weapons sys-
tems, for operations, for training to
strengthen our national security.
It was turned into, in my opinion,
Mr. Speaker, a partisan issue, and that
is sad and unfortunate because, at least
on the national security of which I
have been supportive for 38 years—I
supported much of the Reagan buildup.
I supported the deployment of missiles
in Europe. I supported the MX missile,
which was somewhat controversial in
my district. I did it because I thought
America needed to be strong and to
make sure the world knew we were
going to be strong.
When you talk about JOE WILSON’s
amendment, which we included in our
bill, which you were supportive of and
I think the level of funding was also,
frankly, intellectually supported, if not
politically supported, I regret that we
did not have a bipartisan vote on the
defense bill.
With respect to his specific question,
I respond to the whip, Mr. Speaker: We
hope this bill is signed. If not, we hope
it goes to conference. We hope we have
a conference agreement, Mr. Speaker,
and we hope that the Wilson amend-
ment is kept in the conference report.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.077 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5769
July 12, 2019
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, let’s be
crystal clear about what happened.
The chairman of the Armed Services
Committee made this a political bill by
putting poison pills in the bill that un-
dermined our national security. That is
not a partisan issue.
And so if you go back to the funding
levels—I yield to my friend.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, will the
gentleman specify what they were?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I will ab-
solutely be happy to specify what those
are, but first of all, let’s talk about
funding levels.
It is not just about funding levels. If
you have a funding level and then you
put policy underneath it that limits
our men and women in uniform’s abil-
ity to train safely and to do their job
safely and effectively, that is a poison
pill approach.
b 1415
It is a partisan approach. It should
have never happened.
Mr. Speaker, it has been 58 years
where Republicans and Democrats have
worked alike together to pass a Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, not
making it political, specifically in
committee.
There is no Member of our Congress
who works better with people on both
sides of the aisle to support our men
and women in uniform than MAC
THORNBERRY. Mr. THORNBERRY worked
overtime to try to heal this divide, to
make sure a bill could come out of
committee that was bipartisan, reflect-
ing those 58 years.
In fact, the Senate did this, and I
think the gentleman from Maryland
knows this well. The Senate did not
make it political. The Senate passed a
bill with an 86–8 vote, with all the lead-
ership of the Republican side and
Democratic side voting together.
That was the approach we wanted to
take, Mr. Speaker. If there was a better
way, we should have done it together.
But the majority side went against
even what Senate Democrats did and
chose an approach, for example, that
undermined our nuclear missile defense
and that went against the AUMF
agreement that, if your bill were to be-
come law, would have made it harder
for us to counter terrorism activities
in the Middle East.
Why would we want to do that in leg-
islation and hamstring our men and
women in uniform? In fact, the bill
that the majority just passed would
undermine the gains we have made in
enabling our men and women in uni-
form to train more safely.
Before we came up with the 2-year
budget agreement that we got to-
gether, Republicans and Democrats,
when we were in the majority, we were
seeing our men and women in uniform
die in training missions more than
they were dying in combat. It was by a
5-to-1 margin that men and women in
uniform were dying in training mis-
sions, planes falling out of the sky be-
cause they didn’t have enough spare
parts.
We finally started to address that.
This bill undermines that, making our
men and women in uniform less safe.
That is not the approach we should be
taking. If the gentleman wants to call
that bipartisan, then go look at the
fact that no Republicans voted for that
bill and eight Democrats voted against
it. It was a partisan approach. It was a
bill that undermines our national secu-
rity.
The Senate didn’t do that. The Sen-
ate came together the right kind of
way. It is the way we should have done
it here.
If the gentleman wants to talk about
the pay raise, let’s be very clear and
upfront about it. If we didn’t even have
this bill, our men and women in uni-
form get that pay raise. It is current
law. It is like they are putting a provi-
sion in their bill saying the Sun is
going to come up tomorrow, and then if
it does, they take credit for it.
The pay raise was already going to
happen, so they put it in the bill and
say they gave the pay raise. It was al-
ready there. We got it into law when
we were in the majority working with
the Democrats. We didn’t just say it
was our way or the highway.
The NDAA bill, every year we were in
the majority, was a bill that was
worked on with Republicans and Demo-
crats, and they didn’t send it out of
committee until they had complete
agreement. That was an area where we
didn’t have political differences.
We are going to have political dif-
ferences on minimum wage and some of
these other issues, but we shouldn’t
have our men and women in uniform
become part of the political divide in
Washington. The Senate didn’t do it.
Our Members didn’t do it and tried to
work together.
If the chairman wanted to go his own
way, that is not the approach we
should be taking. It is not the approach
we have taken for 58 years. It is not the
approach that Senate Democrats took
when they worked with Republicans to
come up with a bill that put our men
and women in uniform as a priority.
Mr. Speaker, the majority leader can
look at the bill and talk about what is
in it. I will tell the gentleman that is
already current law anyway. I will also
tell him what the Senate did to make
sure that they didn’t have those poison
pill provisions.
They shouldn’t have been in the bill.
Ultimately, they are not going to be in
anything that becomes law. The gen-
tleman knows it, and I know it.
What happened today shouldn’t have
happened. Maybe it is a lesson that
when we get beyond this and we see
what the final product is going to be, it
will be a bill where we come together.
Ultimately, we will come together to
make sure our men and women in uni-
form have the tools that they need to
train safely and defend our Nation safe-
ly, but the bill that came out of the
House today did not achieve that. It
fell very short of where this House
should have been in representing our
men and women in uniform.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, obviously,
we could debate a bill we just passed, a
bill that has been debated on this floor
for 3 days, a bill that was chairmanned
and supported by somebody equally, if
not more, bipartisan in terms of his
work over the years on this matter of
defense, ADAM SMITH, period.
It is a good bill, Mr. Speaker. It
takes care of the men and women. It
provides them the necessary resources.
And, yes, it says we ought to have a
new AUMF that is now 18 years old.
With respect to the pay raise that
was going to happen anyway, I presume
that the gentleman refers to the rec-
ommendation of the President of the
United States, a Republican. We took
the recommendations of the President
of the United States and put it in our
bill. It is higher than any figure that
was put in for our men and women in
uniform during the previous 10 years
that the Republicans controlled the
House and controlled this bill.
There were poison pills, from my per-
spective, in the defense bills in years
past. I now note that I voted against
those bills when they passed the House.
I voted for the conference committee
when it came back.
I am hopeful that the Republicans
will decide that the rhetoric they used,
‘‘If you vote against this bill,’’ mean-
ing the defense bill, to our side, ‘‘you
vote against the men and women in the
Armed Forces, the men and women in
uniform, the men and women at the
point of the spear,’’ I hope you will re-
member that language, Mr. Speaker. I
hope my Republican colleagues will re-
member that language. Now, appar-
ently, it doesn’t apply.
This was a good bill. That was a bill
worked on in a bipartisan fashion.
I will tell the whip, Mr. Speaker, that
I had conversations with some of the
top Republican leaders on that com-
mittee with respect to funding levels. I
was told that the funding levels that
were in our bill, as the Joint Chiefs
said and as the ranking member said in
an editorial in The Wall Street Jour-
nal, were appropriate levels that will
fund the priorities of our country and
the needs of our national security, Mr.
Speaker.
Certainly, I hope that the Senate and
the House can work on this. By the
way, the Senate number is the same as
our number as it relates to compensa-
tion, I believe, for members of the
Armed Forces.
I would hope, Mr. Speaker, when this
bill comes back from conference, that
we will have agreement, will pass it,
and will send it to the President for
signature. That is the way it ought to
be.
I am sorry that we didn’t get signifi-
cant support, as is almost always the
case, except when political games were
played, not just that items were put in
that the Republicans didn’t like or the
Democrats didn’t like. There were a lot
of things in the defense bills that I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.079 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5770 July 12, 2019
voted for that I didn’t like, but I
thought the overall bill was a bill that
supported our troops and supported our
national security, as I think this bill
did. We will see.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, as we
continue this debate as the bill moves
through the process, and we look at
where the Senate started with a very
large 86–8 vote, Republicans and Demo-
crats working together and coming to-
gether, we can agree on funding levels.
But if the underlying policy under-
mines the actual money that is being
spent, undermines the mission, the
ability for our men and women to train
safely and defend our country safely,
then the funding levels are not being
spent properly.
It is about not just the money but
how the money is being spent, the poli-
cies behind it that allow our men and
women to train safely, to defend our
country safely. That is an issue. We
will continue debating that.
I would predict, in the end, a final
product that goes to the President’s
desk is going to look a lot more like
the Senate bill than the bill that came
out of the House and, hopefully, ad-
dresses all of those problems that were
identified earlier. We will continue
that debate as well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
if he has anything else.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I only
want to say that I do not accept the
premise that anything in this bill we
just passed with a majority vote under-
mines training, operations, or acquisi-
tions, period.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY,
JULY 12, 2019, TO MONDAY, JULY
15, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Monday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE HONORING
LAKE LITTLE
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, on Sunday,
Mississippi lost a talented young
woman when she tragically died in an
airplane accident.
Lake Little had accomplished a great
deal in her lifetime. She was an honors
student, a skilled athlete, and a volun-
teer in her local community.
Lake had a bright future. She held
dreams of serving her country in the
United States Air Force and had al-
ready enlisted in the Mississippi Air
National Guard.
Mississippi is proud of the life that
Lake lived, and we are grateful for the
positive impact she had in her commu-
nity and on our State.
Today, Lake’s friends, family, and
community have gathered to remember
her and celebrate her life.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for a moment of
silence on the House floor at this time
as we join Lake’s loved ones in hon-
oring her memory.
f
ELIMINATING UNNECESSARY EN-
VIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY
REGULATIONS FOR HOUSING
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the Trump adminis-
tration’s latest efforts to combat the
skyrocketing housing costs in the
United States.
There is likely no State in the coun-
try feeling the ill effects of
unaffordable housing more so than my
home State of California. That is why
I applaud the President’s recent execu-
tive order establishing a White House
Council on Eliminating Regulatory
Barriers to Affordable Housing.
Over the past 20 years, there have
been countless regulations imple-
mented in California that make build-
ing a home so expensive that many
people can no longer afford to buy
them or even rent. The cost of building
a home is nearly six times higher per
square foot than it was 30 years ago,
due to uncompromising and often un-
necessary environmental and safety
regulations.
I am glad there will now finally be a
council tasked with looking into the
true reasons behind these costs instead
of continuing to offer Federal subsidies
to simply mask the problem.
In my home area of the First Dis-
trict, housing is a critical issue, with
the loss of the town of Paradise and so
many people displaced there and the
housing that needs to be put in place
back in Paradise or in surrounding
communities to help these people. The
mandates that are put upon them
make it almost impossible to afford.
I look forward to working with HUD
Secretary Ben Carson and this White
House council to examine and, hope-
fully, alleviate the housing crisis in
California.
f
RECOGNIZING COACH JESSE
BURLESON
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to recognize a special guest who is here
with us in the gallery today, Jesse
Burleson, the head coach of the Hardin-
Simmons University Cowboys football
program, located in the heart of the big
country, Abilene, Texas.
Coach is joined today by his wife,
Lois, and his daughters, Lainey and
Marisa.
Under Coach Burleson’s leadership,
the Cowboys have enjoyed unprece-
dented success, going 36 and 4 in the
past four seasons, making four con-
secutive playoff appearances, and grad-
uating 14 All-Americans and two
Rimington Trophy winners.
Coach stresses the importance of
hard work, discipline, and the neces-
sity of making sacrifices to achieve
goals. The most important thing that
these Cowboys will learn while they
are playing football at Hardin-Sim-
mons is that God loves them, that He
has a plan for them, and that if they
follow Him, there is nothing they can-
not overcome or achieve in this world.
Thank you, Coach Burleson. Hooyah,
Cowboys. Go west Texas.
f
b 1430
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it has
been an interesting day. It is amazing
we voted on a National Defense Au-
thorization Act. That is normally a bi-
partisan action here in the House. It is
normally quite a compromise. But this
NDAA didn’t end up being that way be-
cause it had so many different leftist
dreams inserted into it that had noth-
ing to do with the national defense. It
is rather a shame. It is something that
has to be worked on. We have got to be
able to defend ourselves and properly
pay those who are doing so, or trying
to do so.
It was a sad day that we did not pass
that with the same bipartisanship that
we have had in the past. I hope that
changes for the future. There are only
a few areas like that where we have
had bipartisanship in the past, and I
hope we can get back to it.
One area where there hasn’t been a
lot of bipartisanship at all has occurred
in the area of the great tragedy, crisis,
emergency now, that is occurring on
our southern border. It is amazing be-
cause we have heard for months that
there was a manufactured crisis, it
wasn’t really a crisis on our southern
border, that President Trump was just
making it up, that Republicans were
just making it up. There was no crisis
there. Nothing to see. We can just keep
moving along because there is no prob-
lem on the southern border.
Well, there was a crisis. There wasn’t
a disaster occurring there. And by vir-
tue of the fact that people in other
countries saw that the majority of the
House of Representatives was sending
them messages about what they were
doing and saying here, that there was
not going to be any wall, there was not
going to be the kind of border security
that we should have, and, in fact, more
and more people seem to be advocating
that we have no border at all.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.081 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5771
July 12, 2019
The fact is that if a nation has no
borders, it is no longer a nation. And
yet, I know there are those here who
think America is horrible, that it is
this horrendous, imperialistic hegem-
ony, always trying to take advantage
of others. They refuse to face the fact
there has never been a more generous
nation than the United States. If we
were imperialistic, they would not be
speaking German in Germany, or
French in France, or Japanese in
Japan. This is not an imperialist na-
tion. We are not out to colonize the
world.
And it is amazing how some who
would accuse us of that, they are doing
what has become so common here in
Washington, and that is projecting. If
somebody does something inappro-
priate, harmful, or hateful, then they
accuse their opponents of doing exactly
what they did.
We will be getting into some of that
type of projecting as we continue in
our Judiciary Committee in the next
couple of weeks, continuing to take up
the Mueller report.
They know now, there is no question,
the Clinton campaign paid a foreign
agent to gather information, from
what he has since admitted, who prob-
ably worked for Putin—could have very
well worked for Putin, that is—and
gave false information that was used
and was called a dossier—of course,
giving dossiers a bad name—that was
used to try to stop a Presidential can-
didate. And, at the same time, it was
used by a newly weaponized Depart-
ment of Justice, FBI, and intelligence
community, in at least part of it, some
at the very top, to try to win an elec-
tion. We hadn’t had that before.
Now, we have known for some time
now that J. Edgar Hoover was at the
FBI so long that he began to use the
FBI, not as a political weapon to win
for one party or another, but just as his
weapon to be able to get what he want-
ed from presidents, regardless of their
party.
I recall seeing the FBI interview, re-
tired, talking about Hoover sending
them to watch the apartment of a
woman with whom President Kennedy
was supposedly having an affair, and
they watched it be burglarized. They
didn’t report it or didn’t file charges.
In fact, they wanted to find out what
exactly was stolen during the burglary.
They never reported it because their
job was to gather information for the
head of the FBI. The head of the FBI
could then use it to prevent a president
from doing anything the FBI director
didn’t want him to do, which, as I un-
derstand it, gave rise to the term lim-
its for an FBI director. I think that
was a very good thing.
I thought it was a bad thing when
President Obama extended Robert
Mueller’s 10-year term by 2 years. He
was a fiasco. He was a disaster. He ran
off thousands and thousands of years of
experience. And I can’t help but think
that if Mueller had not instituted a
policy, personnel policy, that ran off
thousands and thousands of years of
experience, some of his best people
around the country and the world, that
there would not have been the atmos-
phere that existed with McCabe as act-
ing FBI director. People like Strzok in
charge of counterintelligence, Lisa
Page, people who used the FBI as just
a political tool, a weaponized political
tool, and people in the DOJ who we are
finding out more about all the time,
whether it is Loretta Lynch and, before
that, Eric Holder.
But if Mueller had not run off so
many of our best long-serving FBI
agents, I still continue to believe there
would have been people around when
Strzok, McCabe, and others were try-
ing to use the FBI as a political weap-
on. There would have been longer-serv-
ing people who would have said: You
can’t do this. This is not what the FBI
is about.
But Mueller wanted nothing but yes
people around him: people who would
salute him, figuratively speaking, and
the flag and do exactly what he said
without reservations. So he got much
younger agents in charge all around
the country and the world, people that
would not be able to say: Sir, I know
that seems like a good idea, but I was
here 20 years ago when we tried that,
and it was a disaster. I would rec-
ommend looking back at the failure be-
fore, before you push us into this new
type of activity.
And, of course, he wouldn’t listen to
anybody when he wasted millions of
dollars on computer and software pro-
grams. But that, to me, was not near
the biggest problem as the damage he
had done with the FBI.
He came out with a report that is
just abysmal. I mean, when I was an
assistant district attorney, fresh out of
law school, and I was asked to put
something together about this case or
that case, what I put together was a lot
better than anything Mueller put to-
gether. That was a political document.
And I know I have some Republican
friends, media friends, who think the
new Horowitz IG report is going to be
just breathtaking. But the trouble is,
he already had one report. As I told
him in our hearing, he spent about 500
pages documenting the most out-
rageous and unbelievable bias and prej-
udice against a candidate, Donald
Trump, and in favor of a candidate,
Hillary Clinton. He documents just
outrageous, blatant bigotry against a
party, a candidate. And, as I told him
at the hearing: I think you realize, as
you gathered all of that devastating
evidence of outrageous prejudice in the
FBI and the DOJ, and you realize,
whoops, Democrats got me here. This
is not going the way my friends would
want it to go, so perhaps I better throw
them a bone, which he didn’t just
throw them a bone, he threw them the
whole rib-eye and said: Even though we
got 500 pages documented of the most
ridiculous, outrageous prejudice and
bias, and even though every investiga-
tion ended up with a conclusion that
was totally consistent with all the big-
otry and bias and prejudice, I find that
there was no relationship between the
outrageous prejudice and the conclu-
sion to the cases coming out exactly
consistent with the bias.
It was ridiculous, absolutely ridicu-
lous.
So he showed us that he was not ca-
pable of giving us a proper conclusion
in the first Horowitz inspector general
report. So I would just encourage peo-
ple, don’t get your hopes up that he is
going to man up and do the right thing,
or woman up, whichever you prefer, in
the next Horowitz IG report. I hope he
does. I pray he does do the right thing.
But that remains to be seen.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
HONORING H. ROSS PEROT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
GRANGER) for 30 minutes.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
honor a Texas legend, an American
original, and a historic icon, H. Ross
Perot. There is not enough time in the
day and not enough words in the world
to describe the remarkable life of this
remarkable man.
Born and raised in Texarkana, Texas,
Perot, as a boy, delivered newspapers
on horseback before dawn. And that
same entrepreneurial spirit led him in
the 1960s to start Electronic Data Sys-
tems, a company that would revolu-
tionize the business world and make
him a household name.
It would be enough if Perot’s life had
been devoted to his business. But as a
believer, he knew from scripture that
to whom much is given, much is ex-
pected. So, his life became about much
more than making money, it became
about making a difference, and what a
difference he made.
He spent his life, and much of his for-
tune, on other people. He gave to phil-
anthropic causes, supported countless
people in need, and even purchased the
Magna Carta, which, in true Perot
fashion, he gave to the National Ar-
chives so all Americans could see it.
He also worked tirelessly to help,
support, and honor American prisoners
of war in Vietnam. And when some of
his own EDS employees got caught in
the Iranian hostage crisis in 1979, he
organized and supervised a rescue mis-
sion to get them out.
What made Perot so unique, so suc-
cessful, so enduring? Having known
him, I can answer that question. It was
his relentless devotion to transforming
a dream into reality.
b 1445
Whether it is freeing prisoners in
Iran or building one of the greatest
companies in history, Ross Perot would
not be denied. This relentlessness was
the lighthouse that guided him
through the stiff winds and stormy seas
of 89 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.083 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5772 July 12, 2019
When his long-time friend and law-
yer, Tom Luce, was working for him,
Perot once asked him to call a compet-
itor about a business deal. The next
day, Perot asked Luce if he had talked
to the man. ‘‘I left him a message,’’
was Luce’s unfortunate response.
‘‘You are going to go broke leaving
messages,’’ Perot responded in rebuke.
It was a message Luce never forgot and
it is an example of the relentless drive
that made Perot so successful for so
long.
For me, I am grateful to have known
Mr. Perot. As a friend, he could be
loyal and loving. He gave advice when
he was asked for it, and sometimes
when he wasn’t asked for it, but it al-
ways came from his experience and his
heart. If you were his friend, he was on
your side and wanted you to succeed.
Of course, Perot’s greatest accom-
plishment was his family. He was mar-
ried for more than 60 years to his wife,
Margo, and he was the proud father of
5 and proud grandfather of 16. Each of
them will continue in their own ways
to carry on the great legacy of a great
man. America has lost an amazing
hero, and those who knew him lost an
amazing friend.
Ross Perot will be missed, but he will
never be forgotten.
I yield to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CARTER).
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I rise to speak on the occasion of the
passing of a great American hero, a
gentle giant, a man who spoke his
mind when he needed to and stood for
what was right. Now I am convinced,
knowing his faith, he is among the an-
gels.
Ross Perot was a man who cared
about Americans. He was a great
American, and a great Texan with a
heart as big as Texas. And the things
that Ms. GRANGER said were absolutely
the truth and a great story about Ross
Perot.
But an untold story, because he pret-
ty much kept it untold, is how many
times Ross Perot would hear about and
help a wounded soldier, or an unfortu-
nate American wherever they may be,
who had problems with healthcare, or
problems with medical bills.
In my district, there was a wounded
soldier who was totally incapacitated
and had no way to get around except in
a wheelchair, and Ross Perot, without
any public acknowledgment, looking
for no fame for his good, kind heart,
provided for his needs. He would pay
the hospital bills.
In the case of that young man, a
young soldier in Round Rock, he pro-
vided him with a van which was wheel-
chair accessible without disclosing who
gave the gift, other than: ‘‘I want to
make sure this young man can get
around.’’
Those stories go on and on in every
State in this Union. Mr. Perot was a
man who cared about the American
citizens and our soldiers, sailors, air-
men, marines, and coastguardsmen,
wherever they may be. If they were in
need of his help, he was there for them.
So, today, we have lost an American
hero, a great human being. He will be
missed by many, and he will be missed
by me. He left a legacy of a wonderful
family who has the same kind of
strong, productive heart that makes
things happen in this world, and cares
about America.
Many of us wonder if what we did in
our life would really matter. Ross
Perot didn’t have to worry about that.
Everything he did mattered, not only
to our country, but to a lot of individ-
uals who were in need.
We were blessed by the life of Ross
Perot, and he will be missed.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOH-
MERT).
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I met
Ross Perot while I was a student at
Texas A&M. He was very much in-
volved in activities at the Memorial
Student Center, and he came more
than once.
I owed the Army 4 years for the
scholarship I was using at the time,
and I got to meet this guy that had
gone to the Naval Academy, served his
country, and loved this country. No-
body could rival the love he had for the
United States of America.
He was willing to lay down his life, if
called upon to do it, for his country.
But then, again, Ross Perot was willing
to give everything he had for anything
that he felt should be done.
Having grown up in the town of
Mount Pleasant just down the road
from Texarkana and New Boston, I
heard about him for years before I met
him in college. He was a legend even
then, even though EDS had not grown
to nearly the heights that it would
under his leadership.
But everything that he was involved
in, whether it was charitable, whether
it was business, he demanded truth. He
demanded the best that anyone could
give, and hearing from so many people
who worked for him, he rewarded
truth, he rewarded hard work, and he
has a lot to show for it.
They say, we are told in scripture
that where your heart is, there your
treasure will be. It is really uplifting to
see a man who has been able to store
up treasure without a dollar value,
and, yet, has done so well in business.
His son, Ross Jr., has been a friend, has
been helpful, and I know we all grieve
for the family.
But as a family of believers, I know
that we will all get to see him some
day. The question to me is: In heaven,
will we all have the same accent? It
would be a shame to lose his. I hope we
still get to hear that same sound.
But some were—and I was one of
them in 1992—wondering about him
running for President. But you ulti-
mately realize, this man has never
changed. Truth means everything to
him. Not harming the country that he
loved, and he served was uppermost in
his mind. It never went away. That is
why he did so much for soldiers, sail-
ors, marines, and the Coast Guard. He
would do anything for those serving
our country, including invest massive
amounts to try to free POWs.
He was an extraordinary man, and if
he saw somebody was not being as
truthful as he thought they should be,
then he was going to get involved.
He was a man that will be sorely
missed, but what a legacy, what a his-
tory, and what a love for God and this
country that we miss already.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 53 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, July 15,
2019, at noon for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1604. A letter from the Chairman, Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
transmitting the Board’s semiannual Mone-
tary Policy Report to the Congress, pursuant
to Public Law 106-569; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
1605. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, transmit-
ting a report on the status of all extensions
granted by Congress of the deadlines for the
commencement of construction of Commis-
sion-licensed hydropower projects, pursuant
to Section 1701(c)(5) of the Energy Policy Act
of 1002; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1606. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Office of the Sec-
retary, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s FY
2017 Performance Report to Congress for the
Office of Combination Products, pursuant to
the Medical Device User Fee and Moderniza-
tion Act of 2002; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
1607. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Treasury, transmitting a six-month
periodic report on the national emergency
with respect to Lebanon that was declared in
Executive Order 13441 of August 1, 2007, pur-
suant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412,
Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C.
1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat.
1627); to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
1608. A letter from the White House Liai-
son, Office of Legislation and Congressional
Affairs, Department of Education, transmit-
ting a notification of a vacancy, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b);
(112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
1609. A letter from the Staff Director, U.S.
Commission on Civil Rights, transmitting
the Commission’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act Re-
port, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public
Law 107-174, 203(a) (as amended by Public
Law 109-435, Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
1610. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Scup Fishery; Adjustment to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12JY7.085 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5773
July 12, 2019
the 2018 Winter II Quota [Docket No.:
170828822-70999-02] (RIN: 0648-XG475) received
July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
1611. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s modification of
fishing seasons — Fisheries Off West Coast
States; Modifications of the West Coast Rec-
reational and Commercial Salmon Fisheries;
Inseason Actions #12 through #37 [Docket
No.: 170831849-8404-01] (RIN: 0648-XG563) re-
ceived July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1612. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Summer Flounder Fishery;
Quota Transfer [Docket No.: 170828822-70999-
04] (RIN: 0648-XG574) received July 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
1613. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Snapper-Grouper Fishery of
the South Atlantic; 2018 Recreational Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for the
South Atlantic Other Jacks Complex [Dock-
et No.: 120815345-3525-02] (RIN: 0648-XG662) re-
ceived July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1614. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota
Transfer [Docket No.: 170828822-70999-03]
(RIN: 0648-XG552) received July 9, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1615. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; Reef
Fish Resources of the Gulf of Mexico; Com-
mercial Reef Fish Fishery of the Gulf of
Mexico; 2019 Red Grouper Commercial Quota
Retention [Docket No.: 141104927-4927-01]
(RIN: 0648-XG564) received July 9, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1616. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Snapper-Grouper Fishery of
the South Atlantic; 2018 Recreational Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for South
Atlantic Red Grouper [Docket No.: 100812345-
2142-03] (RIN: 0648-XG661) received July 9,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
1617. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act Provi-
sions; Fisheries Off West Coast States; Pa-
cific Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2018 Tribal
Fishery Allocations for Pacific Whiting; Re-
apportionment Between Tribal and Non-trib-
al Sectors [Docket No.: 171023999-8440-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG581) received July 9, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1618. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlan-
tic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries [Docket No.:
180117042-8884-02]] (RIN: 0648-XG624) received
July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
1619. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Northeast Multispecies Fish-
ery; Georges Bank Cod Trip Limit Adjust-
ment for the Common Pool Fishery [Docket
No.: 151211999-6343-02] (RIN: 0648-XG607) re-
ceived July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1620. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 180117042-8884-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG599) received July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1621. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Summer Flounder Fishery;
Quota Transfer [Docket No.: 170828822-70999-
04] (RIN: 0648-XG669) received July 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
1622. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Small-Mesh Multispecies
Fishery; Inseason Adjustment to the South-
ern Red Hake Possession Limit [Docket No.:
180209147-8509-02] (RIN: 0648-XG674) received
July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
1623. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Re-Opening of Commer-
cial Harvest for South Atlantic Red Snapper
[Docket No.: 1710319998630-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG652) received July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1624. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 150121066-5717-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG489) received July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1625. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Commercial Blacktip Sharks in the
Eastern Gulf of Mexico Sub-Region; Closure
[Docket No.: 150413357-5999-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG647) received July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1626. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlan-
tic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries [Docket No.:
180117042-8884-02] (RIN: 0648-XG651) received
July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
1627. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Summer Flounder Fishery;
Quota Transfer [Docket No.: 170828822-70999-
04] (RIN: 0648-XG633) received July 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
1628. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a petition filed on behalf of workers
at the Idaho National Laboratory in
Scoville, Idaho, to be added to the Special
Exposure Cohort, pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
7384q(c)(2); Public Law 106-398, Sec. 1 (as
amended by Public Law 108-375, Sec.
3166(b)(1)); (118 Stat. 2188); to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
1629. A letter from the President, National
Council on Radiation Protection and Meas-
urements, transmitting the 2018 Annual
Audit Report of the Council, pursuant to 36
U.S.C. 10101(b)(1) and 150909; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
[Omitted from the Record of July 11, 2019]
Mr. SCHIFF: Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence. H.R. 3494. A bill to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for intel-
ligence and intelligence-related activities of
the United States Government, the Commu-
nity Management Account, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Dis-
ability System, and for other purposes; with
amendments (Rept. 116–151, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
[Submitted July 12, 2019]
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 1327. A bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2090, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–152). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 36. A
bill to provide for research to better under-
stand the causes and consequences of sexual
harassment affecting individuals in the sci-
entific, technical, engineering, and mathe-
matics workforce and to examine policies to
reduce the prevalence and negative impact of
such harassment, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–153). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12JY7.000 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5774 July 12, 2019
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
[Omitted from the Record of July 11, 2019]
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Ways and Means dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 3494 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 3732. A bill to amend the Revised
Statutes of the United States and title 28,
United States Code, to enhance compliance
with requests for information pursuant to
legislative power under Article I of the Con-
stitution, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 3733. A bill to remove from the John
H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System
the areas included in Indian Peninsula Unit
FL-92 and Cape San Blas Unit P-30 in Flor-
ida; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas (for herself
and Mr. CHABOT):
H.R. 3734. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to report on ac-
cess to credit for small business concerns
owned and controlled by covered individuals,
to require the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration to report on the
veterans interagency task force, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms.
DEAN, and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 3735. A bill to require the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to pro-
vide information on suicide rates in law en-
forcement, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3736. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to require the
principal campaign committee of a candidate
in a general election for the office of Presi-
dent to file a certification that the candidate
has undergone a medical examination con-
ducted by a medical office under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secretary of the Navy; to the
Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 3737. A bill to require foreign manu-
facturers of products imported into the
United States to establish registered agents
in the United States who are authorized to
accept service of process against such manu-
facturers; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Ways and Means, and Agriculture,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3738. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
establish a grant program for jurisdictions
with high rates of violent crime, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 3739. A bill to withhold Federal high-
way funds from States that provide drivers’
licenses or identification cards to aliens who
are unlawfully present in the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 3740. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to simplify and rename
the H-2C worker program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committees on Energy
and Commerce, and Education and Labor, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 3741. A bill to establish the National
Center for the Right to Counsel; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
VELA, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. AMODEI, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. DEAN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. AUS-
TIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. COLE, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. UPTON, Mr. PAPPAS, Mrs. AXNE,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. SOTO, Mr. COURTNEY, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. MAST, Mr. CUELLAR,
Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. COOPER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. BUDD, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
STIVERS, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON,
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
Mr. LONG, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, and Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 3742. A bill to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to make
supplemental funds available for manage-
ment of fish and wildlife species of greatest
conservation need as determined by State
fish and wildlife agencies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Mrs.
HAYES, and Ms. ADAMS):
H.R. 3743. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require that certain in-
formation with respect to nutrition assist-
ance programs be annually disclosed, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. REED,
Mr. POCAN, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. SIMPSON, and Mr. COLLINS of New
York):
H.R. 3744. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make qualified biogas
property and qualified manure resource re-
covery property eligible for the energy credit
and to permit renewable energy bonds to fi-
nance qualified biogas property, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for him-
self, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
VARGAS, and Mr. LYNCH):
H.R. 3745. A bill to provide physical stand-
ards and reform the inspection process for
housing assisted under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 3746. A bill to provide that service of
the members of the organization known as
the United States Cadet Nurse Corps during
World War II constituted active military
service for purposes of laws administered by
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 3747. A bill to require the Federal
Government to acquire mineral rights, and
prohibit disturbance, of the subsurface of
federally owned sites listed on the National
Priorities List to the extent necessary to
protect cleanup remedies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce, and Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 3748. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act with respect to in
absentia removal proceedings, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. MAST, Mr.
WALTZ, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 3749. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to make grants to entities that
provide legal services for homeless veterans
and veterans at risk for homelessness; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H. Con. Res. 53. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
an event to commemorate the 400th anniver-
sary of the arrival of the first African slaves
to the territory that would become the
United States; to the Committee on House
Administration.
By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. COL-
LINS of New York, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. COMER, Mr.
WALKER, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
SHIMKUS, and Mr. MOOLENAAR):
H. Res. 485. A resolution recognizing the
historic significance of the ‘‘Betsy Ross
Flag’’, a symbolic representation of Amer-
ica’s revolutionary period and our Nation’s
commitment to freedom and unity; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself,
Mr. JORDAN, Mr. MCKINLEY, Ms. KAP-
TUR, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. KEATING, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. LATTA,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. NEAL, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.025 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5775
July 12, 2019
STIVERS, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. KENNEDY, and
Mr. TURNER):
H. Res. 486. A resolution honoring the life
and legacy of John Havlicek; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Mr.
KINZINGER):
H. Res. 487. A resolution expressing full
support to the Ukrainian people in their as-
piration to continue consolidating their de-
mocracy and rule of law; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and
Ms. NORTON):
H. Res. 488. A resolution supporting the
designation of July 2019 as Uterine Fibroids
Awareness Month; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. CLAY introduced a bill (H.R. 3750)
for the relief of Rene Alexander Gar-
cia Maldonado; which was referred to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 3732.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 3733.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas:
H.R. 3734.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power * * * To
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 3735.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3736.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 3737.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8; Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution states The Congress shall have
power To regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3738.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 3739.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 3740.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 3741.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the U.S.
Constitution and Clause 18 of Section 8 of
Article I of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 3742.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. FUDGE:
H.R. 3743.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several states, and with the
Indian tribes.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 3744.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 7, Clause 1
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 3745.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and prosper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 3746.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 3747.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 3748.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 3749.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 3750.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 35: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina.
H.R. 36: Mr. SARBANES, Ms. DELAURO, and
Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 40: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 154: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 281: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 336: Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 372: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 397: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 401: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 435: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 550: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 616: Mr. MEUSER and Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 663: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 665: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 728: Mr. CROW, Mr. ALLRED, and Mr.
LEVIN of California.
H.R. 748: Ms. WEXTON and Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER.
H.R. 838: Ms. BASS, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. STAN-
TON, Mr. AMODEI, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, and
Mr. CONAWAY.
H.R. 886: Mr. BACON and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 948: Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 1002: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1011: Mr. PANETTA and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1128: Mr. CRIST and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1154: Ms. SHALALA, Mrs. MCBATH, and
Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 1163: Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 1175: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. ARM-
STRONG, and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1230: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 1236: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 1243: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1252: Mr. NUNES, Ms. PORTER, and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 1253: Mr. NUNES, Ms. PORTER, and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 1254: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1274: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. RYAN, and
Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1289: Ms. TITUS and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1309: Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1364: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1374: Mr. BACON and Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 1375: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 1377: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 1384: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1396: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
AMODEI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. HIMES, Mr. SAN
NICOLAS, Mr. HECK, and Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee.
H.R. 1398: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1400: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1406: Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 1440: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1441: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1486: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1530: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. BRINDISI, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1553: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1571: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1579: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1588: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1610: Mr. HUFFMAN and Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1628: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 1643: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mr. SHER-
MAN.
H.R. 1665: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1692: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 1713: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1724: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1748: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12JY7.100 H12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5776 July 12, 2019
H.R. 1766: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1771: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1837: Mr. KEATING, Ms. ADAMS, and
Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1840: Mr. CROW, Mr. UPTON, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1854: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
and Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 1862: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1865: Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. MEADOWS, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. MENG,
and Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 1897: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1919: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 1923: Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 1934: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1943: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1970: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 1981: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 1996: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 2010: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 2091: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2148: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2149: Mr. PERRY and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2150: Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. POCAN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 2153: Mr. WALDEN and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 2158: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 2208: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2211: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2219: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 2256: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 2279: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2294: Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 2296: Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. SARBANES, and
Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 2328: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2344: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 2350: Mr. COSTA and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2354: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2404: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2414: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2423: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 2441: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2452: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2487: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2508: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2517: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2530: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2569: Mr. YARMUTH and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2681: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2683: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2684: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 2686: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2689: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2720: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2748: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2770: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 2777: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mrs.
LURIA, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. UPTON, and Mrs.
WAGNER.
H.R. 2781: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2790: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 2812: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2815: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2854: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2857: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 2862: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2876: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2913: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 2931: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2933: Ms. KAPTUR and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3073: Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr. MAR-
SHALL.
H.R. 3082: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3106: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 3114: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3145: Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas.
H.R. 3155: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. THOMPSON
of Pennsylvania, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. KIM, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
KIND, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. SOTO, Mr. RUSH, and
Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3170: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3172: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3182: Ms. WEXTON and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 3214: Mr. HIMES, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
SUOZZI, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3219: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 3230: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3239: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. WEXTON,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, and Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3241: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3350: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 3356: Mr. GALLAGHER and Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 3378: Mr. RYAN, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. LEE of California,
and Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 3379: Ms. LEE of California and Ms.
JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 3381: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 3418: Mr. HECK and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3444: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3454: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 3456: Mr. RUTHERFORD, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COSTA, and Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut.
H.R. 3463: Mr. SOTO, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and
Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 3502: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
KING of New York, and Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 3512: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. OMAR, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
JAYAPAL, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 3513: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3524: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and
Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3529: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3570: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. HECK, and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 3598: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3623: Mr. MCGOVERN and Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ.
H.R. 3655: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 3657: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 3663: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 3684: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 3685: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.J. Res. 59: Mr. LAMB.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H. Res. 23: Mr. SIRES and Mrs. DEMINGS.
H. Res. 54: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H. Res. 219: Mr. STEWART.
H. Res. 255: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington
and Mr. RICHMOND.
H. Res. 441: Mr. KEATING.
H. Res. 444: Mr. KATKO and Ms. MENG.
H. Res. 458: Mr. PETERS.
H. Res. 480: Mr. RASKIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY7.036 H12JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E909
July 12, 2019
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 10, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I rise to support
the amendment offered by Mr. MALINOWSKI.
I’m horrified that the humanitarian crisis in
Yemen—the worst such crisis in the world, ac-
cording to the United Nations—has gone on
this long.
The crisis has been exacerbated by the on-
going conflict between the Saudi-led coalition
and Iranian-backed Houthi rebels. Since 2015,
the Saudi-led coalition has undertaken 18,000
airstrikes, and far too many of these have
killed innocent civilians. In fact, more Yemeni
civilians are killed or wounded in their own
homes than anywhere else.
That is why I am co-sponsoring this amend-
ment, to prohibit the sale of all air-to-ground
munitions to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates for one year. It is our obligation to
make sure the United States is not enabling
civilian deaths.
I thank the gentleman for his leadership in
offering this amendment.
f
LIGHTS FOR LIBERTY VIGILS
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, as thou-
sands take part in vigils across Oregon, the
U.S., and the globe, I rise today in strong op-
position to the Trump administration’s inhu-
mane detention policies. These policies and
practices have led to families being ripped
apart, children dying, and a shameful chapter
written in our nation’s history.
That’s why I voted for the House-passed bill
which had strong health and safety require-
ments for care of unaccompanied minor chil-
dren, tightened restrictions on detention shel-
ters, created accountability for contractors vio-
lating essential standards at detention shel-
ters, and more. Instead, the Republican-con-
trolled Senate stripped these essential reforms
from the bill. Congress ultimately passed the
weak and flawed Senate version.
I voted against this toothless legislation. If
we don’t address this crisis head-on with prop-
er oversight standards and commitment to
holding this administration accountable, noth-
ing will change and people will continue to suf-
fer. That is unacceptable.
Make no mistake, we can’t solve the prob-
lems at our border if we don’t address the rea-
sons that so many individuals are fleeing their
home countries. The Trump administration’s
plan to cut aid to countries like El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras will only make the
situation worse, likely increasing violence and
government dysfunction. Instead, we should
be investing in a plan similar to the Marshall
Plan after World War II to restore safety, sta-
bility, and promote economic opportunities in
Central America.
We must act—now—to get serious about re-
forming our broken immigration system by
passing bipartisan, comprehensive immigration
reform. This is the only course of action that
will allow us to protect these vulnerable indi-
viduals while also producing real, long-term
solutions to our immigration crisis.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Chair,
I rise in support of the en bloc amendment,
which includes my proposal to require the Ad-
ministration to report to Congress on the sta-
tus of United States military-to-military and
diplomatic deconfliction channels with Iran.
This amendment is cosponsored by my col-
leagues JAN SCHAKOWSKY, GERRY CONNOLLY,
JOHN YARMUTH, LLOYD DOGGETT, BARBARA
LEE, PETER WELCH, and EARL BLUMENAUER. I
thank them for their support, and I thank
Chairman SMITH for his consideration.
Last month, President Trump came dan-
gerously close to conducting a military strike
on Iran in retaliation for the downing of an
American surveillance drone.
During that week in June, officials from the
U.S. and Iran traded public accusations before
any investigation into the downing of the drone
was complete.
Meanwhile, oil tankers have been attacked
in the Strait of Hormuz, the Iranian regime is
beginning to increasingly enrich uranium, and
U.S. troops are being moved around the re-
gion.
These events demonstrate the extraordinary
need for established military-to-military and
diplomatic channels of communication and
deconfliction to prevent miscalculation, define
ambiguities, and correct misunderstandings
that could otherwise lead to unintended and
possibly devastating consequences.
In January 2016, such diplomatic lines of
communication saved U.S. sailors on two
Navy riverine command boats that were
seized by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps after entering Iranian territorial waters.
Secretary of State John Kerry called Iranian
Foreign Minister Zarif. Within 15 hours, the
sailors were released unharmed.
Since withdrawing from the JCPOA, the
Trump administration has eliminated those
channels of communication. Can you imagine
what would happen now should U.S. forces be
captured by Iranian forces? Can you imagine
the cost and consequences of military action
provoked by a misunderstanding or mis-
calculation?
Even Department of Defense officials cau-
tion that spiraling escalations put our troops in
the region at risk, and that we cannot be
pulled into an unnecessary armed conflict with
Iran.
This amendment would assert Congres-
sional oversight to ensure that we have infor-
mation about the status of vital military and
diplomatic channels of communication that
must be in place to prevent miscalculation.
I urge the adoption of this En Bloc amend-
ment.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF MENARD COUNTY
FARM BUREAU
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to honor a remarkable organization, the Men-
ard County Farm Bureau. The Menard County
Farm Bureau in central Illinois is a vital organi-
zation in the area that promotes agricultural
prosperity. After many years of success and
service, the Menard County Farm Bureau is
celebrating their 100th anniversary.
The Menard County Farm Bureau was char-
tered on March 19, 1919, to unite farmers in
the area and advocate for central Illinois agri-
culture collectively. Today, the members of the
organization work hard to support the commu-
nity and economy throughout the county.
The Menard County Farm Bureau provides
a voice for farmers, promotes the development
of agriculture, and educates and empowers fu-
ture leaders in the industry. Additionally, Men-
ard County Farm Bureau coordinates with
other associations and agencies to promote
the wellbeing and interests of its members.
Illinois has become a major economic force
within the agricultural sector because of farm
bureaus like Menard County that come to-
gether and enhance opportunities for farmers,
their families, and the community. I extend my
sincere congratulations to Menard County
Farm Bureau for their outstanding accomplish-
ments and contributions to Illinois.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.001 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E910 July 12, 2019
CELEBRATING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN ASSO-
CIATION OF LAW LIBRARIES
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in celebration of the 30th anniversary of the
American Association of Law Libraries’ legisla-
tive advocacy program. The American Asso-
ciation of Law Libraries (AALL), representing
more than 4,100 members, is the only national
association dedicated to the legal information
profession and its professionals. Founded in
1906 on the belief that everyone—lawyers,
judges, students, and the public—needs timely
access to relevant legal information to make
sound legal arguments and wise legal deci-
sions, AALL members are problem solvers of
the highest order.
In 1989, the AALL Executive Board ap-
pointed AALL members Robert L. Oakley of
Georgetown University Law Library and Jo-
anne Zich of American University Washington
College of Law Library as the first Washington
representatives for the Association. Since that
time, AALL’s advocacy efforts ranged from the
creation and dissemination of government in-
formation to copyright to the privacy of library
users. Its successes include ensuring perma-
nent public access to official, authentic gov-
ernment information by advocating for the es-
sential work of the Library of Congress, the
Law Library of Congress, and the U.S. Gov-
ernment Publishing Office; contributing to the
enactment of transparency laws including the
E-Government Act of 2002 (P.L. 107–347) and
updates to the Freedom of Information Act;
and, most recently, supporting my own legisla-
tion to provide public access to Congressional
Research Service reports that resulted in lan-
guage included in the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act of2018 (P.L. 115–141) directing the
Congressional Research Service to make its
nonconfidential reports available to the public
on the internet.
The AALL Executive Board and its members
will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the As-
sociation’s legislative advocacy program by
convening on Capitol Hill today, July 12, 2019,
for AALL Day on the Hill. AALL members will
meet with their elected officials about the As-
sociation’s legislative priorities that include
greater access to government information, ac-
cess to justice, government transparency, bal-
anced copyright laws, and privacy for library
users.
I congratulate AALL on three decades of ef-
fective advocacy and wish them many more
years of success.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I rise to
speak in support of Amendment No. 423 to
H.R. 2500, the National Defense Authorization
Act for FY2020, offered by the gentleman from
California, Congressman RO KHANNA.
The Khanna Amendment is simple and
straightforward in its prohibition against unau-
thorized military force in or against Iran.
Earlier this year, the Trump Administration
sent an aircraft carrier and a nuclear-powered
submarine to the region in a show of force.
The Khanna Amendment would make clear
and explicit that nothing in the FY2020 NDAA
can be construed as congressional authoriza-
tion or acquiescence regarding the use of mili-
tary force against Iran.
The Framers understood that while the mili-
tary does the fighting, the entire nation goes to
war.
That is why the Framers lodged the power
to declare war in the Congress, the branch of
government closest to the people.
They knew that the decision to go to war
was too important to be left to the whim of a
single person, no matter how wise or well-in-
formed he or she might be.
The President must consult with Congress
and to obtain an AUMF before undertaking
any military offensive against Iran.
Over the last 18 years, we have seen 3
Presidents use the 2001 Afghanistan AUMF
as a blank check to engage in serious military
action.
In 2016, the Congressional Research Serv-
ice issued a report detailing 37 unclassified
uses of this authorization in 14 countries, in-
cluding for operations at Guantanamo Bay,
warrantless wiretapping, and recent military
action in Libya, Syria, Somalia, and Yemen.
The overly broad 2001 AUMF represents a
critical deterioration of Congressional over-
sight, which should be repealed, rather than
repeated with respect to Iran.
As our brave service members are deployed
around the world in combat zones, Congress
is missing in action.
As provided under the War Powers Resolu-
tion of 1973, absent a Congressional declara-
tion of war or authorization for the use of mili-
tary force, the President as Commander-in-
Chief has constitutional power to engage the
U.S. armed forces in hostilities only in the
case of a national emergency created by an
attack upon the United States, its territories or
possessions, or its armed forces.
As a co-equal branch of government, it is
Congress’s right and responsibility to be fully
consulted regarding any potential plans to
conduct military operations in Iran, to assess
whether such action is in the national security
interest of the United States and its allies, and
to withhold or grant authorization for the use
of military force based on this assessment.
As we have learned from the painful and bit-
ter experience of the past 18 years, at the ini-
tiation of hostilities, the costs in terms of blood
and treasure of U.S. military interventions
abroad are often underestimated and the ben-
efits overstated.
For example, more than 6,800 American
service members gave the last full measure of
devotion to their country on battlefields in Af-
ghanistan and Iraq, with hundreds of thou-
sands more returning with physical, emotional,
or psychological wounds that may never heal.
The direct economic cost of the war in Af-
ghanistan exceeds $1.07 trillion, including
$773 billion in Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations funds, an increase of $243 billion to the
Department of Defense base budget, and an
increase of $54.2 billion to the Veterans Ad-
ministration budget to address the human
costs of the military involvement in Afghani-
stan.
We should not repeat the mistakes of the
past and my position on this issue is directly
aligned with the will of the American people.
I commend my colleague, Congressman
KHANNA for offering this important amendment
and urge all Members to join me in voting for
the amendment and restoring Congress’s pre-
eminent constitutional role in the decision to
take the nation to war.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JOHN ‘‘DOC’’
BLANCHON
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the life of John ‘‘Doc’’
Blanchon of Yarmouth, Massachusetts, a dedi-
cated family man, soldier and teacher who lost
his battle to Parkinson’s Disease.
A native of Quincy, Doc attended Bridge-
water Teachers College where he excelled in
athletics, playing baseball, basketball and soc-
cer. Later, he was admitted as a member of
the initial class of Bridgewater Athletic Hall of
Fame. After graduating, Doc joined the U.S.
Army and served his country in Korea. When
he returned home he continued his education
and obtained his master’s degree in School
Administration from Northeastern University.
He then taught Social Studies at Sharon High
School and coached the school soccer team.
Doc Blanchon was named Principal of Sharon
High School in 1982, serving as the school’s
leader until his eventual retirement in 1994.
Doc and his wife, Lorraine, eventually relo-
cated to Cape Cod in retirement, though they
spent much of their time following their pas-
sion for travel in Europe once their children
finished college. Those who knew Doc knew
him as a good man, full of kindness and the
desire to help those others. He was a man of
deep faith and devoted his life to following the
practices of Christianity.
Doc passed this Father’s Day; his loss was
felt deeply by his family and community. His
memory and spirit will live on through his lov-
ing wife Lorraine, his two children Bonnie and
Donald, and his five grandchildren as well as
his legacy and devotion to his community, mili-
tary and God.
f
RECOGNIZING HER HOLINESS
MATA AMRITANANDAMAYI DEVI
HON. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to recognize Her Holiness Mata
Amritanandamayi Devi, known simply as
‘‘Amma’’ to her many admirers over the world,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.005 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E911
July 12, 2019
for her exemplary humanitarian and conserva-
tion efforts and her work to build bridges of
love, peace and understanding not only to the
people of India, but to all nations.
Amma was born in 1953 in a small, coastal
village in the South Indian state of Kerala.
Drawn from a very early age to a life of serv-
ice to others, Amma began her lifelong prac-
tice of trying to alleviate suffering by sharing
food and clothing from her home while still a
young girl. This devotion to service was not al-
ways appreciated by her family, who faced
their own economic challenges and could ill
afford to give away any of the little they had,
but Amma persisted and soon began her prac-
tice of embracing those in need of comfort and
support.
As she matured, Amma grew to understand
that hugging and personal acts of kindness
were not sufficient to heal our world, and she
began to speak publicly on the importance of
selfless service, compassion towards all
beings, conservation, the importance of inter-
religious harmony, and against human traf-
ficking and slavery. She founded two impor-
tant charitable organizations, Mata
Amritanandamayi Math and Embracing the
World, which have provided essential disaster
relief, food, clean water, housing, health care
and education to thousands of needy men,
women and children in India and in Mexico,
Costa Rica, France, Spain, Kenya, Brazil, Slo-
venia and Australia.
Amma is beloved by many as their guru and
has a large following in my district. Her hu-
manitarian efforts have been recognized and
celebrated by, among others, the United Na-
tions, the Parliament of World Religions, and
Rotary Club International, and she has been
awarded an honorary doctorate in humane let-
ters from the State University of New York in
Buffalo.
Amma continues to share her vision of
peace, understanding and love through speak-
ing programs, meditation retreats and her will-
ingness to embrace all in need of blessing.
Madam Speaker, I want to recognize Amma’s
selfless and compassionate devotion to all
people, the work of her charities to relieve
poverty and provide health care and edu-
cation, her outspoken advocacy against
human trafficking, and her efforts to encour-
age sustainable practices and protect our
shared ecosystem.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. STEVE KING
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes;
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I am encour-
aged that my amendment to the National De-
fense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year
passed the House of Representatives by voice
vote on July 11, 2019. This important amend-
ment requires the ‘‘Annual Report on Military
and Security Developments Involving the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China’’ to include an assess-
ment of (1) China’s expansion of its surveil-
lance state; (2) Any correlation of such expan-
sion with its oppression of its citizens and its
threat to United States national security inter-
ests around the world; and (3) An overview of
the extent to which such surveillance cor-
responds to the overall respect, or lack there-
of, for human rights.
This matter is one that I have long been at-
tuned to and concerned about, ultimately lead-
ing me to draft and introduce the ‘‘Protect
American IPR Act’’, which is H.R. 902 this
session, and seeks to stop Chinese theft of
U.S. intellectual property through duties on
Chinese merchandise. For this reason, I have
been encouraged to see President Trump
prioritizing the Chinese stealing of American
intellectual property.
Mass and unabated government surveil-
lance does not only offend individual liberties;
in the hands of an authoritarian government, it
poses the Orwellian threat of the government
always watching, and ultimately using this abil-
ity, made possible to an unprecedented extent
by modem technology, to spy on, steal from,
intimidate and persecute not only those it
views as ‘‘political enemies’’ and ‘‘threats’’, but
anyone it deems as expedient.
This Orwellian threat is becoming a reality,
perhaps nowhere more so than in China,
where the government vigorously pursues a
national video surveillance network. The affin-
ity of the Chinese government to control its
population in part by mass monitoring is not a
new phenomenon, but advancing technology
makes its prospects more frightening every
day for those within and outside of the Main-
land.
One internet privacy expert warns, ‘‘What
China is doing here is selectively breeding its
population to select against the trait of critical,
independent thinking’’. Since China is a neigh-
bor to many and more importantly an actor on
the world stage, that erosion will not simply
negatively impact the Chinese, it will spread—
it arguably has already. A world with contin-
ually less critical, independent thought is a
prospect to tremble at.
It is my strong belief that U.S. policy, includ-
ing defense policy, should by no measure as-
sist, intentionally or unintentionally, the growth
of China’s surveillance. Instead, it should dis-
courage the expansion of the Chinese govern-
ment into the rest of the world, while at the
same time encouraging greater human rights
for the Chinese people, including expectant
mothers and Christians and other religious mi-
norities.
I have heard from many individuals who
warn against China’s rapid expansion and in-
fluence into the rest of the world, including Af-
rica and Central America, our nation’s own
backyard. Although the government-connected
interests bring economic promise (and exploi-
tation) to the developing world, they also bring
the Chinese surveillance state with them. To
counter this very real and growing threat, we
need to first understand its scope, its impact
for individuals in China as well as those
around world, and the extent to which it threat-
ens the U.S. national security interests.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MRS. MARGARET A. JONES
HON. MICHAEL F. Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mrs. Mar-
garet A. Jones. Margaret was a longtime resi-
dent of Guam, a wife, mother, a public-spirited
community leader, and a woman of business
on Guam. In 1965, she was a founding mem-
ber of the Guam Memorial Hospital Volunteers
Association and gave her time and effort to
numerous charitable and non-profit organiza-
tions. Her family business, Triple J Enterprises
was founded in 1984 and has grown across
the Pacific region. Margaret was born on No-
vember 5, 1937 and passed away in North
Carolina on June 27, 2019, at the age of 81.
Margaret was the daughter of Early and
Verna Page. Margaret was born in Willow
Spring, North Carolina.
Margaret married Robert H. Jones in 1957.
They raised three children and were blessed
with eleven grandchildren.
In 1965, Margaret was a founding member
of the Guam Memorial Hospital Volunteers As-
sociation (GMHVA), known as the Pink Ladies
for the pink vests worn by their volunteers.
GMHVA has raised millions of dollars for im-
provements to the Guam Memorial Hospital.
Margaret was active in the American Cancer
Society and led Triple J Enterprises in its sup-
port for cancer research by participating annu-
ally in the American Cancer Society’s Relay
for Life and sponsoring an annual 5k run/walk
event.
Margaret had been active with other non-
profit organizations, including the Guam Wom-
en’s Club, Harvest Baptist Church, the Miss
Guam Universe Pageant, the Miss Guam
World Pageant, and the Board of St. John’s
School.
Margaret started her career in Guam at the
Marianas Travel Agency. In 1975, she joined
Pan American Airlines, working as a Special
Sales Representative until 1991. In 1984, Mar-
garet cofounded Triple J Enterprises along
with her husband, Robert H. Jones, and Geor-
gia Stafford. Today, the Triple J group em-
ploys over nine hundred employees across the
Micronesia region, many of whom have been
with the business for over twenty years.
I am deeply saddened by the passing of
Margaret A. Jones and I join the people of
Guam in celebrating her life. She was pillar of
the island community, leading both in chari-
table and non-profit service and in business
on Guam. My thoughts and prayers are with
her family, loved ones, and friends.
I extend my condolences to her husband,
Robert H. Jones, her children, Julie Jones
Murrell, Jeff Jones, and Jay Jones, and their
spouses, and her grandchildren. She will be
deeply missed, and her memory will live on in
the hearts of the people of Guam.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.008 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E912 July 12, 2019
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Chair,
I rise in support of the en bloc amendment,
which includes my bipartisan World Language
Advancement and Readiness amendment co-
sponsored by Representatives DON YOUNG,
GIL CISNEROS, RICK LARSEN, JIMMY PANETTA,
JIM LANGEVIN, and SETH MOULTON.
Our amendment would direct the DoD to
award three-year competitive grants to Depart-
ment of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA)
schools and to local education agencies
(LEAs) that host a Junior Reserve Officers’
Training Corps (JROTC) program for the es-
tablishment, improvement, or expansion of
world language programs in elementary and
secondary schools.
The future national security and economic
well-being of the United States will depend
substantially on the ability of our citizens to
read, speak, and understand the languages
and cultures of other nations.
Unfortunately, multiple studies and GAO re-
ports have found that ‘‘by several measures,
the United States has neglected languages in
its educational curricula, its international strat-
egies, and its domestic policies.’’ The U.S.
puts itself at a disadvantage in our inability to
communicate with our international peers.
Research has shown that the ‘‘critical win-
dow’’ for language learning is from ages 10–
18, making investment in our elementary and
secondary schools a top priority.
DoDEA schools and school districts with J–
ROTC programs are uniquely positioned to
reach children who are likely to join the mili-
tary or work for our intelligence communities.
Language comprehension is not just a lux-
ury: it is vital to our economic interests, to our
diplomacy, and to our national security.
I urge adoption of this critical amendment.
f
AWARENESS OF CANCER MOR-
TALITY IN WAYNE COUNTY,
MICHIGAN
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
bring awareness to the incidence of cancer
and cancer mortality in Wayne County, Michi-
gan. Wayne County ranks in the top four
counties with the highest incidence of cancer
in Michigan.
In 2013, the International Agency for Re-
search on Cancer, a part of the World Health
Organization, has classified outdoor air pollu-
tion as a carcinogen, citing 223,000 lung can-
cer deaths worldwide in 2010. It’s no coinci-
dence that Wayne County is home to some of
Michigan’s most heavily industrialized areas.
Wayne County is home to Michigan’s only oil
refinery, one hundred eleven Superfund sites,
massive transportation infrastructure, steel
mills, and more.
More telling than the clouds of smoke, the
odors, and the haze hanging in the air, is the
pollution’s toll on human lives. There is no
doubt that the cancer, respiratory disease, and
other illnesses have caused great distress to
the families impacted. Too often, we sacrifice
the quality of life for our residents. We have
lost too many lives and it’s time to say
enough. We have an opportunity to reverse
course and do better by future generations.
Therefore, I rise today to honor those whose
lives were cut short by cancer and will con-
tinue to fight for environmental justice for the
people of Michigan’s 13th Congressional Dis-
trict.
f
IN HONOR OF MR. HENRY ROSS
PEROT
HON. LANCE GOODEN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in remembrance of a great Texan, Mr. Henry
Ross Perot. Born and raised in Texarkana, he
was a lifelong advocate for improving the edu-
cation of our nation’s children, having provided
initial funding for Teach for America. Always
the innovator, Mr. Perot attended the U.S.
Naval Academy where he helped to establish
its honor system, which to this day encour-
ages its midshipmen to conduct themselves
with honor and integrity.
After serving honorably in the Navy, he be-
came a salesman for IBM where he quickly
distinguished himself among its ranks. This in-
spired him to start what would become a busi-
ness empire in Dallas. He was a pioneer in
the field of electronic data management, win-
ning a contract to digitize Medicare records in
the 1960s.
Shortly after the Iranian Revolution of 1979,
two of his employees were imprisoned by the
government of Iran over a contract dispute. In
true Texas fashion, he hired a former Army
Special Forces Colonel to break them out of
prison and, while some might leave such a
dangerous mission to others, he insisted on
taking part in the assault himself. Though he
eventually agreed to sit out the mission, it was
a great success and speaks directly to Mr.
Perot’s maverick nature and bias for action.
Mr. Perot was always a politically outspoken
public figure and never backed down from his
principled positions. Eventually, his concern
for the future of our nation fueled his presi-
dential candidacy in the election of 1992. His
revolutionary, yet simple message allowed him
to do what no third-party candidate had done
before as he drew nearly one-fifth of the pop-
ular vote.
Mr. Perot left a lasting impression on the
technology industry and political atmosphere,
which is outweighed only by the fond memo-
ries he left with those who knew him. We will
cherish those memories as we strive to con-
tinue his profound legacy.
THANKING MAJOR TIMOTHY W.
TRIMAILO FOR HIS OUT-
STANDING SERVICE AS EXECU-
TIVE OFFICER, SECRETARY OF
THE AIR FORCE, OFFICE OF LEG-
ISLATIVE LIAISON
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to thank Major Timothy W. Trimailo for
his outstanding service as Executive Officer,
Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Legisla-
tive Liaison.
Major Trimailo has been a diligent, valued
member of the Office of Legislative Liaison.
He has been integral in ensuring Congress re-
ceives the information it needs from the U.S.
Air Force. During his tenure, Major Trimailo
was able to significantly increase the U.S. Air
Force responsiveness to Congress. His in-
sight, intellect and ability to clearly commu-
nicate complex issues were invaluable assets
during his tenure.
Major Trimailo also assisted with the devel-
opment of the Space Force engagement strat-
egy. His role is very important as Space Force
is vital to the future security of the United
States.
Major Trimailo has served the Air Force with
distinction and honor since receiving his com-
mission in 2005 from the United States Air
Force Academy. He completed basic space
operations training and Defense Satellite Com-
munications System (DSCS) III qualification
training at Vandenberg AFB, California, in May
2006.
I also want to recognize his wife Lori and
his children Kellen and Bailey for their service,
support and sacrifices.
Major Trimailo’s presence in the Office of
Legislative Affairs will be missed by his Lead-
ership and his coworkers. Please join me in
thanking Major Trimailo for his service, and in
wishing him well in his new endeavor.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CAREER OF
MELVIN L. MARKS
HON. SALUD O. CARBAJAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the military service of World
War II veteran Melvin L. Marks, a Santa Bar-
bara city resident in my district, who turns 95
years old on July 10, 2019.
Mel Marks was born in Des Moines IA in
1924, and enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1943.
In his three years of service as an intelligence
observer in the 124th Battalion, he participated
in a number of notable campaigns, including
the Battle of Britain and the Battle of the
Bulge. His service brought him to England,
Holland, Belgium, and Germany, where he
crossed the Rhine in March of 1945.
Mel Marks is a member of the Greatest
Generation, as journalist Tom Brokaw calls it,
meaning the men and women who fought not
to seek fame or recognition, but simply be-
cause it was the right thing to do.
Of the more than 16 million who served in
the United States Armed Forces during World
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.011 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E913
July 12, 2019
War II, fewer than 500,000 are still with us
today, and we’re losing about 350 of them
every day.
After the war, Mel came to Chicago and
married the former Mary Harris, who herself
just turned 89, and the two of them have
raised three children, have five grandchildren
spread across the country, and will be cele-
brating their 69th wedding anniversary this
Fall.
Mel has had a distinguished career as a
journalist, management and marketing consult-
ant, and published author. One of his best-
known books is ‘‘Yesterday’s Warriors,’’ which
recounts his experiences in the War and his
band of brothers who remained friends for a
lifetime.
It is with particular pride that we recognize
the service and wonderful life of a veteran
who is not just still with us, but alive and kick-
ing.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GARY J. PALMER
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted Nay on Roll Call No. 439.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF COACH RICKY
GRIFFIN
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the achievements of Ricky
Griffin, an outstanding North Texas educator
and coach. Coach Griffin, from Argyle High
School, was one of eleven coaches in the
United States named National Coach of the
Year by the American Baseball Coaches As-
sociation.
Coach Griffin guided the Argyle Eagles to
their second consecutive Class 4–A title this
season and posted a 77–1–1 record over the
last two years. Under his direction, Argyle
High School become the first school in Texas
UIL history to follow up an undefeated state
title season with another state championship.
Argyle had two outstanding winning seasons:
37–0 in 2018 and 40–1–1 in 2019. Under
Coach Griffin’s leadership, the Eagles have a
combined 130–10–2 record for the last four
seasons—an unprecedented accomplishment.
In this case, coaching is a family affair. Coach
Griffin’s son, Storm Griffin, recently joined his
father on the Argyle coaching staff.
In addition to his remarkable career as head
coach of the Eagles baseball team, Coach
Griffin also serves as the defensive backs
coach for the Eagles football team. Notably,
the Argyle football coaches have established a
football program that dominates the Texas
4–A high school football scene. With one state
title under their belt and ranking as one of the
top football programs for the upcoming sea-
son, the Argyle Eagles and their fans should
credit their coaches, including Ricky Griffin, for
leading Argyle students to success.
While Coach Griffin has compiled a long list
of achievements, his professional mission
goes beyond the field as he strives to develop
his students into remarkable young men. Win-
ning seasons, state championships, and na-
tional recognition have been the icing on the
cake. For his efforts, Coach Griffin will be hon-
ored at the annual ABCA convention in Janu-
ary 2020 in Nashville, TN.
It is my privilege to recognize Coach Ricky
Griffin for leadership of the Argyle Eagles
baseball team and our North Texas commu-
nity, and I wish him continued success.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Chair,
for over 25 years, I have made multiple oral
and written requests to federal contracting au-
thorities including the U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers to explain why our labor unions have
been systematically excluded from contract
awards—especially at military installations like
the Joint Base in New Jersey.
Over the years, everyone we’ve met in
meeting after meeting on the federal side have
always been polite and courteous, but the bot-
tom line—the highly trained unionized women
and men don’t get the jobs.
Most recently, I brought labor leaders in-
cluding Mike Maloney—Business Manager for
the Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 9, Mike
Ricca—Business Agent of IBEW Local 400,
and others to meet with the Corps of Engi-
neers regarding contracting processes that
make it near impossible for union members to
get work on the base.
I—we—raised deep concerns that nonunion
contractors may purposely be misclassifying
workers in order to low bid, which if true could
be a serious violation of federal law and con-
trary to Davis Bacon.
We are concerned that irresponsible con-
tractors and subcontractors may be engaging
in two different types of misclassification: craft
misclassification and independent contractor
misclassification. Craft misclassification occurs
when dishonest contractors misclassify high-
skilled workers as general laborers or lower
wage classifications in order to avoid paying
the higher prevailing wage rate applicable to
the high-skilled work actually performed. Inde-
pendent contractor misclassification occurs
when contractors misclassify employees as
independent contractors to avoid paying pre-
vailing wages in order to reduce labor costs
and avoid state and federal taxes.
Today, I am offering an amendment, joined
by my good friend and colleague DONALD
NORCROSS, to task the U.S. Government Ac-
countability Office (GAO) to investigate the
contracting practices of the Corps of Engi-
neers, with a specific focus on how the Corps
complies with and enforces the requirement to
pay prevailing wages on federally financed
construction jobs, and its probe will include:
Any programs or protocols the Corps of En-
gineers has in place for the purpose of car-
rying out its Davis-Bacon Act enforcement ob-
ligations as set forth in the Federal Acquisition
Regulation.
Any programs or protocols the Corps of En-
gineers has in place for the purpose of identi-
fying and addressing independent contractor
misclassification on projects subject to the
Davis-Bacon Act.
The frequency with which the Corps of Engi-
neers conducts site visits on each covered
project to monitor Davis-Bacon Act compli-
ance.
The frequency with which the Corps of Engi-
neers monitors certified payroll reports sub-
mitted by contractors and subcontractors on
each covered project.
Whether the Corps of Engineers accepts
and investigates complaints of Davis-Bacon
Act violations submitted by third parties, such
as contractors and workers’ rights organiza-
tions.
Whether the Corps of Engineers maintains a
database listing all contractors and sub-
contractors who have, in one way or another,
violated the Davis-Bacon Act and whether the
Corps consults this database as part of its
contract award process.
The frequency, over the last five years, with
which the Corps of Engineers penalized, dis-
qualified, terminated, or moved for debarment
of a contractor for Davis-Bacon violations.
How the Corps of Engineers verifies that the
contractors it hires for its projects are properly
licensed.
This amendment will require the Comptroller
General of the United States to submit a re-
port to Congress summarizing the results of
their findings, in addition to any recommenda-
tions for legislative or regulatory action that
would improve the efforts of enforcing the re-
quirement to pay prevailing wages on federally
financed construction jobs.
Our military installations deserve quality
workmanship, not substandard facilities that
could create potential hazards and diminish
readiness.
The bill, to which I am adding this amend-
ment, authorizes $11.5 billion for military con-
struction projects for fiscal year 2020. Madam
Chair, we need to ensure that taxpayer dol-
lars—and critical investment in military infra-
structure—are being spent in accordance with
the law, including Davis Bacon.
f
HONORING THE WORLD WAR II,
KOREAN WAR, AND VIETNAM
WAR VETERANS OF ILLINOIS
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the World War II, Korean War, and Viet-
nam War veterans who traveled to Wash-
ington, D.C. on July 10, 2019 with Honor
Flight Chicago, a program that provides World
War II, Korean War, and Vietnam War vet-
erans the opportunity to visit their memorials
on The National Mall in Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.015 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E914 July 12, 2019
These memorials were built to honor their
courage and service to their country.
The American Veteran is one of our great-
est treasures. The Soldiers, Airmen, Sailors,
Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who traveled
here on July 10th answered our nation’s call
to service during several of its greatest times
of need. Across the world, these brave Ameri-
cans risked life and limb, gave service and
sacrificed much, all while embodying what it is
to be a hero. We owe them more gratitude
than can ever be expressed.
I welcome these brave veterans to Wash-
ington and to their memorials. I am proud to
include in the RECORD the names of these
men and women for all to see, hear, and rec-
ognize, and I call on my colleagues to rise and
join me in expressing gratitude:
John G. Aister, Victor J. Alvarez, Brownie J.
Andrews, Jr., Joseph J. Arcara, William J.
Arndt, Gordon W. Atkins, George E. Batson,
Charles Bennett, John C. Bierman, James
Terry Blue, Sr., John J. Borg, Walter L.
Brooks, Robert A. Bryant, Patrick Butler, John
W. Cannon, James M. Clemons, Leroy Cobb,
Matthew W. Connor, William J. Dierks, Jack
H. Doyle.
William Thomas Dzingel, Duane Arthur
Foss, Charles W. Fruehe, Dennis W. Gallo-
way, Richard Gardner, Philip L. Givens, Rob-
ert Wesley Godfrey, John P. Greaney, Robert
L. Gurley, James A. Haegele, Sr., Ernest R.
Hanna, Edwin W. Hendry, James John Hen-
nessy, Thomas J. Henry, Superman J. Horn,
Archie Hubbard, Jr., Michael M. Hughes, Hol-
man B. Ingram, Angelo Irizarry, Nello D.
Isabelli.
Ronald J. Janiak, Robert E. Jensen, Theo-
dore B. Knapp, Harold B. Koenen, Ronald J.
Konetsky, James J. Kosinski, Richard
Kowalski, Joseph Kwak, Earl M. Laib, Andrew
Leverenz, James O. Lewis, William R.
Lindberg, Robert B. Locknar, Stanley R. Lokaj,
Bernard LoMonaco, David L. Lowe, Stewart G.
Margolis, Joseph Martinek, Dwight C. McCon-
nell, Stuart W. McDowell.
Edward W. McQuiston, Robert J. Misevich,
Fernando E. Montilla, Leonard W. Morris,
Jerry I. Mosenson, Charles E. Nichols, Earl A.
Nordmeyer, Harlan W. O’Cull, William O’Neill,
Paul M. Obinger, Stanley J. Penczak, Steven
L. Penczak, George L. Peso, Dennis R.
Rokita, Kent Romanus, Ralph H. Schmalfeld,
Terrence Lee Schmidt, James Schwartz,
Robin P. Schwartz, Auberay L. Smith,
Lynwood Smith, Gerald S. Snarski, Joseph J.
Stachon.
Leroy E. Stahr, Willard Stockfisch, Myron I.
Strepka, Albert F. Struska, Alexander C.
Styrczula, Edward Sulita, Robert Sweeney,
James J. Sykucki, Donald G. Tollefsen, Greg-
ory B. Tweedy, Sr., John J. Valverde, Hector
H. Villarreal, Robert W. Vogeltanz, Leonard A.
Wantroba, Lawrence Weiss, Edward K.
Weyna, Edward S. Weyna, James C.
Wightman, Clyde Wilson, Samuel Wilson, Leo
W. Wysocki, Ascher Daniel Yates, Daniel R.
Yatsko.
f
HONORING LT. COLONEL SAMUEL
LOMBARDO
HON. MATT GAETZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
commemorate the 100th birthday of Lt. Col.
Samuel Lombardo in honor of his service to
our country. Mr. Lombardo and his family le-
gally immigrated to the United States of Amer-
ica from Italy when he was just 10 years old.
He grew up in Pennsylvania, where he en-
listed to serve in the Army National Guard’s
28th Infantry Division just one month following
the start of World War II.
After training, he was deployed to Europe,
where served as platoon leader and executive
officer of I Company, 394th Infantry Regiment,
99th Division. He served in the ‘‘Battle of the
Bulge,’’ and he continued his service to Amer-
ica in the Korean conflict and in the Vietnam
War.
Throughout his service to our county, Lt.
Colonel Lombardo earned the Silver Star, the
Bronze Star with ‘‘V Device’’ for valor, as well
as an oak leaf cluster for meritorious achieve-
ment, the Army Commendation Medal, the
Army Good Conduct Medal, Combat Infantry-
man Badge, American Campaign Medal, Euro-
pean African Middle Eastern Campaign Medal
with three Campaign Stars, WWII Victory
Medal, National Defense Service Medal,
Armed Forces Reserve Medal, United Nations
Medal, Vietnam Expeditionary Forces Medal,
French Legion of Honor, the Belgian
Fourragare, and the Republic of Korea Presi-
dential Unit Citation.
Madam Speaker, please join me in support
of the Okaloosa County Board of County
Commissioners in Florida Congressional Dis-
trict One, as they declare this day, July 12,
2019, to be ‘‘Samuel Lombardo Day.’’
f
TRIBUTE TO ROBERT J.
GILLILAND
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to pay tribute to Robert J. Gilliland, the first
man to fly the world’s fastest supersonic
manned aircraft—the SR–71 Blackbird—who
died on Independence Day last week at the
age of 93. Mr. Gilliland, a native of Memphis,
attended what is now the Campus School at
the University of Memphis and the Webb
School at Bell Buckle, Tennessee. He was a
1949 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy,
where he took his commission in the newly
created U.S. Air Force. After patrolling the
skies over post-war Germany, he won his air
wing’s ‘‘top gun’’ competition. In the Korean
War, he flew F–84s from the Taegu Air Base
with the call sign ‘‘Dutch 51.’’ Returning to the
United States, Mr. Gilliland got a plum assign-
ment to the Air Force’s research and develop-
ment group at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida,
but soon left that post to help his father run
the family’s Memphis commercial real estate
business. After his father died, Mr. Gilliland
joined Lockheed as a test pilot for the F–104
Starfighter in California, then as chief pilot for
the European production of the F–104 at
Turin, Italy. In 1962, he got a call from Clar-
ence L. ‘‘Kelly’’ Johnson, the chief of Lock-
heed’s advanced research and development
team at what is called the Skunk Works out-
side Burbank, California. There, he worked on
the secretive SR–71 Blackbird, the first
manned stealth aircraft and the fastest of its
day, sometimes at the super-secret Area 51 in
the Nevada desert. On December 22, 1964,
he piloted the hypersonic SR–71 for the first
time and continued testing an aircraft that
could attain speeds in excess of Mach 3.2 and
climb to the edge of outer space at 85,000
feet. Mr. Gilliland logged more test flight hours
at or above Mach 3 than any other pilot. His
life is the subject of a book due for release
next year with a forward by Captain Chesley
‘‘Sully’’ Sullenberger, who landed a U.S. Air-
ways flight on the Hudson River in 2009. I
want to extend my condolences to Mr.
Gilliland’s daughter Anne Gilliland Hayes and
her husband Richard; to his son Robert J.
Gilliland Jr. and his wife Kim; to his grand-
children Laura, Nathaniel, Stuart, Scott and
Heather; and to his brother, my friend James
S. Gilliland and his wife Lucia. Service was a
family quality that was instilled in Mr. Gilliland
and he was a true hero whose bravery was
repeatedly demonstrated in the harshest pos-
sible circumstances. He was the embodiment
of the Air Force motto, ‘‘Aim High, Fly-Fight-
Win.’’ The nation owes him a debt of gratitude
for an American life well lived.
f
HONORING ALEXANDER V.
MITRENKO
HON. FRED KELLER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 12, 2019
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, it is my
great honor to recognize and congratulate
Alexander V. Mitrenko of Selinsgrove, Penn-
sylvania, who will take his oath of citizenship
today in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
Nearly 19 years ago, Alex arrived in
Selinsgrove for the first time as a 16-year-old
high school exchange student from the
Ukraine. Upon his arrival, Alexander knew no
one, had no family to accompany him but in
spirit, and spoke very little English. But as
Alex stood at the beginning of a journey that
would eventually bring him to raising his right
hand today in allegiance to our nation, he held
with him what our nation’s earliest settlers had
established and would take him toward a
brighter and better future: the promise of
America.
Alexander readily adapted to American life
by forging new friendships in Central Pennsyl-
vania and joining several groups in his school:
the soccer and baseball teams, chess club,
and the school band, to name a few. He
worked tirelessly to improve his English, stud-
ied hard, frequently offered a unique perspec-
tive on world events to his classmates, and
was always willing to offer a helping hand to
a friend in need. To this day, he continues his
close friendship with his host father in the
United States, George Kinney.
Upon his graduation from high school, Alex-
ander attended Susquehanna University and
earned a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Fi-
nance and Information Systems in 2005. He
worked full-time after college and attended
Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business
at night. In 2011, he received a Master’s of
Business Administration in Investment Man-
agement and International Business. In July
2015, Alex obtained his green card and mar-
ried his wife, Erin, later that same year in Oc-
tober. They currently reside in Selinsgrove
with their three adopted cats and are currently
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.019 E12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E915
July 12, 2019
restoring one of the town’s historic properties
on Market Street.
Today, Alexander remains a selfless mem-
ber of his community. He previously served as
a volunteer firefighter, takes part in 5k races
and soccer games to raise money for chari-
table causes, and frequently participates in
volunteer opportunities through his employer,
Prudential Financial. He is also an avid fan of
the Philadelphia Eagles, Flyers, and Phillies.
Madam Speaker, if today we were tasked
with finding some living proof that dem-
onstrates how alive and well the promise of
America is today, I would respectfully ref-
erence this invitation to congratulate Alex-
ander V. Mitrenko on becoming a citizen of
the United States of America. We, as a free
and democratic nation, congratulate and wel-
come him, as he is officially guaranteed the in-
alienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12JY8.022 E12JYPT1
D833
Friday, July 12, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3 p.m., on Monday, July 15, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 18 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3732–3749; 1 private bill, H.R.
3750; and 5 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 53; and H.
Res. 485–488 were introduced. Pages H5774–75
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H5775–76
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1327, to extend authorization for the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2090, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–152); and
H.R. 36, to provide for research to better under-
stand the causes and consequences of sexual harass-
ment affecting individuals in the scientific, technical,
engineering, and mathematics workforce and to ex-
amine policies to reduce the prevalence and negative
impact of such harassment, and for other purposes,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–153).
Pages H5773–74
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020: The House passed H.R. 2500, to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense and for
military construction, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, by a recorded vote of
220 ayes to 197 noes, Roll No. 473. Consideration
began Wednesday, July 10th.
Pages H5733–43, H5750–64
Rejected the Thornberry motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Armed Services with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
204 ayes to 212 noes, Roll No. 472. Pages H5760–63
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes.’’. Page H5764
Agreed to:
Dingell amendment (No. 440 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–143) that requires the Administrator
of the EPA to designate all per and polyfluoroalkyl
substances as hazardous substances under section
102(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980;
Pages H5735–37
Smith (WA) en bloc amendment No. 17 con-
sisting of the following amendments printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–143: Rice (NY) (No. 432) that
requires GAO to conduct an audit of ongoing and
planned future DOD support for DHS operations to
secure the southwest border, with a subsequent brief-
ing and report to Congress; Stanton (No. 433) that
directs the Secretary of Defense to modify the pre-
separation counseling check-list administered to
servicemembers separating from the Armed Forces to
provide further information regarding the expedited
naturalization resources available to them; Takano
(No. 434) that requires the Secretary of Defense to
provide the Secretary of Homeland Security with a
copy of the Certificate of Release or Discharge from
Active Duty (DD Form 214) for each noncitizen
honorably discharged from the military for the pur-
poses of including such record in an I–213 Record
of Deportable/Inadmissible Alien; Aguilar (No. 435)
that directs DOD to debrief non-citizens on how to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12JY9.REC D12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D834 July 12, 2019
apply for naturalization when they transition out of
the armed services; Aguilar (No. 436) that prohibits
persons with DACA or TPS from being separated
from the Armed Services to be deported; and Pocan
(No. 439) that requires review of the discharge char-
acterizations of former members of the military who
were discharged because of their sexual orientation;
requires boards to change discharge characterizations
from dishonorable to honorable in such cases;
Pages H5740–43
Tipton amendment (No. 375 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that expresses the sense of Congress that military
aviation training in Colorado, including the training
conducted at the High-Altitude Army National
Guard Aviation Training Site, is critical to the na-
tional security of the United States and the readiness
of the Armed Forces (by a recorded vote of 417 ayes
to 6 noes, Roll No. 461); Pages H5752—53
Khanna amendment (No. 423 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that prohibits unauthorized military force in or
against Iran (by a recorded vote of 251 ayes to 170
noes, Roll No. 463); Pages H5753–54
Lee (CA) amendment (No. 424 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that repeals the Authorization for Use of Military
Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (by a re-
corded vote of 242 ayes to 180 noes, Roll No. 464);
Pages H5754–55
Lee (CA) amendment (No. 425 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that expresses the sense of Congress that the 2001
AUMF has been utilized beyond the scope that Con-
gress intended; and that any new authorization for
the use of military force to replace the 2001 AUMF
should include a sunset clause, a clear and specific
expression of objectives, targets, and geographic
scope, and reporting requirements (by a recorded
vote of 237 ayes to 183 noes, Roll No. 465);
Page H5755
Thompson (MS) amendment (No. 437 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–143) that prohibits DoD
funding to house any foreign nationals who are in
the custody of and detained by U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (by a recorded vote of 213
ayes to 204 noes, Roll No. 469);
Pages H5733–34, H5757–58
Malinowski amendment (No. 438 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–143) that provides for a one-year
prohibition on the sale of air-to-ground munitions
used in the conflict in Yemen to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, while
providing an exemption for any export or license
suspensions that would incur a cost to the United
States Government (by a recorded vote of 236 ayes
to 182 noes, Roll No. 470); and
Pages H5734–35, H5758–59
Jayapal amendment (No. 441 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–143) that requires the Comptroller
General of the United States to submit to Congress
independent studies regarding potential cost savings
with respect to the nuclear security enterprise and
force structure (by a recorded vote of 230 ayes to
189 noes, Roll No. 471). Pages H5737–40, H5759
Rejected:
Lee (CA) amendment (No. 49 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that sought to reduce funding from the Overseas
Contingency Operations (OCO) account by $16.8
billion (by a recorded vote of 115 ayes to 307 noes,
Roll No. 459); Page H5751
Amash amendment (No. 50 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that sought to repeal section 1022 of the FY2012
NDAA and amend Section 1021 of the FY2012
NDAA to eliminate indefinite military detention of
any person detained under AUMF authority in the
U.S., territories, or possessions by providing imme-
diate transfer to trial and proceedings by a court es-
tablished under Article III of the Constitution of the
United states or by an appropriate State court (by a
recorded vote of 187 ayes to 236 noes, Roll No.
460); Pages H5751–52
Turner amendment (No. 386 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July 11th
that sought to strike the provision relating to the
prohibition on the use of funds for the deployment
of low-yield ballistic missile warheads and requires
the Secretary of Defense to certify on the availability
of proportional response options (by a recorded vote
of 201 ayes to 221 noes, Roll No. 462); Page H5753
Garcia (TX) amendment (No. 428 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on July
11th that sought to prevent DOD facilities from
being used to house or detain unaccompanied mi-
grant children (by a recorded vote of 198 ayes to
223 noes, Roll No. 466); Pages H5755—56
Ocasio-Cortez amendment (No. 429 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on
July 11th that sought to prohibit the President from
deploying troops on the southern border if the pur-
pose of this deployment is to enforce immigration
law (by a recorded vote of 179 ayes to 241 noes with
one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 467); and
Pages H5756–57
Ocasio-Cortez amendment (No. 430 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–143) that was debated on
July 11th that sought to prohibit the President from
using the authorized funds to detain undocumented
immigrants in Department of Defense facilities (by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12JY9.REC D12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D835
July 12, 2019
a recorded vote of 173 ayes to 245 noes, Roll No.
468). Page H5757
Agreed that the Clerk be authorized to make
technical corrections in the engrossment, including
corrections in spelling, punctuation, section and title
numbering, cross referencing, conforming amend-
ments to the table of contents and short titles, and
the insertion of appropriate headings. Page H5765
H. Res. 476, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 2500) was agreed to Wednesday,
July 10th.
Suspension: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measure:
Never Forget the Heroes: Permanent Authoriza-
tion of the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund Act: H.R. 1327, amended, to extend author-
ization for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2090, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 402 yeas to 12 nays, Roll No. 474;
Pages H5743–50, H5764–65
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To ex-
tend authorization for the September 11th Victim
Compensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal year
2092, and for other purposes.’’. Page H5765
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, July 15th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H5570
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
fifteen recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H5751,
H5751–52, H5752–53, H5753, H5753–54,
H5754–55, H5755, H5755–56, H5756–57, H5757,
H5757–58, H5758–59, H5759, H5763, H5763–64,
and H5764–65. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:53 p.m.
Committee Meetings
KEEPING THE LIGHTS ON: ADDRESSING
CYBER THREATS TO THE GRID
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Keeping the Lights
On: Addressing Cyber Threats to the Grid’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Karen S. Evans, Assistant Sec-
retary, Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and
Emergency Response, Department of Energy; J. An-
drew Dodge, Sr., Director, Office of Electric Reli-
ability, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and
a public witness.
LESSONS FROM THE MUELLER REPORT,
PART III: CONSTITUTIONAL PROCESSES
FOR ADDRESSING PRESIDENTIAL
MISCONDUCT
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Lessons from the Mueller Report,
Part III: Constitutional Processes for Addressing
Presidential Misconduct’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S CHILD
SEPARATION POLICY: SUBSTANTIATED
ALLEGATIONS OF MISTREATMENT
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administra-
tion’s Child Separation Policy: Substantiated Allega-
tions of Mistreatment’’. Testimony was heard from
Representatives Escobar, Ocasio-Cortez, Pressley,
Tlaib, Lesko, Cloud, Biggs, and Roy; Jennifer L.
Costello, Acting Inspector General, Department of
Homeland Security; Ann Maxwell, Assistant Inspec-
tor General for Evaluation and Inspections, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services; Thomas D.
Homan, Former Acting Director, U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
JULY 15, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Immigra-
tion and Citizenship, hearing entitled ‘‘Overcrowding and
Prolonged Detention at CBP Facilities’’, 5:30 p.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Violations of the Hatch Act Under the
Trump Administration, Part II: Kellyanne Conway’’, 4
p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
3494, the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pol-
lard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’;
H.R. 582, the ‘‘Raise the Wage Act’’; and a Resolution
Recommending that the House of Representatives find
William P. Barr, Attorney General of the United States,
and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary of Commerce, in Con-
tempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas
Duly Issued by the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
5 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12JY9.REC D12JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D836 July 12, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, July 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third
Circuit, and vote on the motion to invoke cloture thereon
at 5:30 p.m.
The filing deadline for first-degree amendments to Pro-
tocol Amending the Tax Convention with Spain (Treaty
Doc. 113–4), Protocol Amending Tax Convention with
Swiss Confederation (Treaty Doc. 112–1), Protocol
Amending the Tax Convention with Japan (Treaty Doc.
114–1), and Protocol Amending Tax Convention with
Luxembourg (Treaty Doc. 111–8), is at 3:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, July 15
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E913
Carbajal, Salud O., Calif., E912
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E914
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E909
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E909
Gaetz, Matt, Fla., E914
Gooden, Lance, Tex., E912
Granger, Kay, Tex., E912
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E910
Keating, William R., Mass., E910
Keller, Fred, Pa., E914
King, Steve, Iowa, E911
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E909
Palmer, Gary J., Ala., E913
Price, David E., N.C., E909, E912
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E910, E913
Raja, Krishnamoorthi, Ill., E910
San Nicolas, Michael F.Q., Guam , E911
Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E913
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E912
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jul 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D12JY9.REC D12JYPT1
