Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1215
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019 No. 16
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. SWALWELL of California).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 25, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ERIC
SWALWELL to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Dr. Dan C. Cummins, Cap-
itol Worship, Washington, D.C., offered
the following prayer:
For this cause, we bow our knees
unto You, Heavenly Father, of whom
the whole family in Heaven and Earth
is named.
Grant us, Your children, according to
the riches of Your eternal mercy, Your
gracious and insuperable wisdom, for
the best of our precepts have failed us
to no end.
Abba, show us Your way.
We beg for the breadcrumbs of com-
passion from the Master’s table. Like
the morning manna for Israel, restore
us to the path of righteousness by Your
daily bread, that we may walk together
in love, lest we wander in a wilderness
of strife.
With all meekness, long-suffering,
forbearing with one another in love, let
us walk as the children of God in the
unity of Your spirit.
Now unto the Lamb that was slain to
receive power, honor, and glory, who
now sits upon Thy throne forever, unto
Him, Christ Jesus our Lord eternal.
Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 3 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1856
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. RASKIN) at 6 o’clock and
56 minutes p.m.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in clause 2 (h) of rule the
Rules of The U.S. House of Representatives,
the Clerk received the following message
from the Secretary of the Senate on January
25, 2019, at 6:25 p.m.:
That the Senate agreed to with an amend-
ment H.J. Res. 28. That the Senate agreed to
with an amendment Senate insists on its
amendment and requests a Conference with
the House of Representatives H.J. Res. 31.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
FURTHER ADDITIONAL CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker’s table the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 28) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year
2019, and for other purposes, with the
Senate amendment thereto, and concur
in the Senate amendment.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the Senate amend-
ment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Senate amendment:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This joint resolution
may be cited as the ‘‘Further Additional Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations Act,
2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is fur-
ther amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 15, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the following:
‘‘SEC. 137. Amounts made available in this Act
for personnel pay, allowances, and benefits in
each department and agency shall be available
for obligations incurred pursuant to subsection
(c) of section 1341 of title 31, United States Code.
‘‘SEC. 138. All obligations incurred and in an-
ticipation of the appropriations made and au-
thority granted by this Act for the purposes of
maintaining the essential level of activity to
protect life and property and bringing about or-
derly termination of Government function, and
for purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Jan 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A25JA7.000 H25JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1216 January 25, 2019
hereby ratified and approved if otherwise in ac-
cord with the provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 139. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s non-
Federal funds) to continue carrying out a Fed-
eral program or furloughed State employees (or
the grantee’s employees) whose compensation is
advanced or reimbursed in whole or in part by
the Federal Government—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be com-
pensated at their standard rate of compensation
for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall be
reimbursed for expenses that would have been
paid by the Federal Government during such pe-
riod had appropriations been available, includ-
ing the cost of compensating such furloughed
employees, together with interest thereon cal-
culated under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may use
funds available to the State (or the grantee)
under such Federal program to reimburse such
State (or the grantee), together with interest
thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of title
31, United States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the ap-
plicable Federal program under subsection (a).
In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a Federal
program’ means the continued performance by a
State or other Federal grantee, during the pe-
riod of a lapse in appropriations, of a Federal
program that the State or such other grantee
had been carrying out prior to the period of the
lapse in appropriations.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section applies
with respect to any period in fiscal year 2019
(not limited to periods beginning or ending after
the date of the enactment of this Act) during
which there occurs a lapse in appropriations
with respect to any department or agency of the
Federal Government which, but for such lapse
in appropriations, would have paid, or made re-
imbursement relating to, any of the expenses re-
ferred to in this section with respect to the pro-
gram involved. Payments and reimbursements
under this authority shall be made only to the
extent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.
‘‘SEC. 140. Notwithstanding section 251(a)(1)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 and the timetable in section
254(a) of such Act, the final sequestration report
for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 254(f)(1)
of such Act and any order for fiscal year 2019
pursuant to section 254(f)(5) of such Act shall be
issued, for the Congressional Budget Office, 10
days after the date specified in section 105(3),
and for the Office of Management and Budget,
15 days after the date specified in section 105(3).
‘‘SEC. 141. Section 319L(e)(1)(A) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–7e(e)(1)(A))
shall continue in effect through the date speci-
fied in section 105(3) of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. Section 405(a) of the Pandemic and
All Hazards Preparedness Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6a
note) shall continue in effect through the date
specified in section 105(3) of this Act.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such di-
vision shall be considered to include the period
which began on or about December 22, 2018,
during which there occurred a lapse in appro-
priations.
SEC. 103. Subsection (c)(2) of section 1341 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, and subject to the enactment of ap-
propriations Acts ending the lapse’’ before the
period.
SEC. 104. For the purposes of the annual re-
port issued pursuant to section 5 of the Statu-
tory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 934)
after adjournment of the second session of the
115th Congress, and for determining whether a
sequestration order is necessary under such sec-
tion, the debit for the budget year on the 5-year
scorecard, if any, and the 10-year scorecard, if
any, shall be deducted from such scorecard in
2019 and added to such scorecard in 2020.
Mrs. LOWEY (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the original request of the
gentlewoman from New York?
There was no objection.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON
H.J. RES. 31, FURTHER CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker’s table the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 31) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes, with
a Senate amendment thereto, disagree
to the Senate amendment, and agree to
the conference asked by the Senate.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
Mr. HOYER. Reserving the right to
objection, I do not intend to object, Mr.
Speaker, but I hope the experience of
the last 35 days has taught us that we
should never repeat this exercise of
shutting down government again.
Mr. Speaker, I withdraw my reserva-
tion of objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
ervation of objection is withdrawn.
Is there objection to the request of
the gentlewoman from New York?
The Chair hears none and, without
objection, appoints the following con-
ferees: Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Ms. LEE of California, Messrs.
CUELLAR, AGUILAR, Ms. GRANGER,
Messrs. FLEISHMANN, GRAVES of Geor-
gia, and PALAZZO.
There was no objection.
f
116TH CONGRESS REGULATIONS
FOR USE OF DEPOSITION AU-
THORITY
COMMITTEE ON RULES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
103(a)(2) of House Resolution 6, 116th Con-
gress, I hereby submit the following regula-
tions regarding the conduct of depositions by
committee and select committee counsel for
printing in the Congressional Record.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. MCGOVERN,
Chairman, Committee on Rules.
REGULATIONS FOR THE USE OF DEPOSITION
AUTHORITY
1. Notices for the taking of depositions
shall specify the date, time, and place of ex-
amination. Depositions shall be taken under
oath administered by a member or a person
otherwise authorized to administer oaths.
Depositions may continue from day to day.
2. Consultation with the ranking minority
member shall include three days’ notice be-
fore any deposition is taken. All members of
the committee shall also receive three days
written notice that a deposition will be
taken, except in exigent circumstances. For
purposes of these procedures, a day shall not
include Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holi-
days except when the House is in session on
such a day.
3. Witnesses may be accompanied at a dep-
osition by personal, nongovernmental coun-
sel to advise them of their rights. Only mem-
bers, committee staff designated by the
chair or ranking minority member, an offi-
cial reporter, the witness, and the witness’s
counsel are permitted to attend. Observers
or counsel for other persons, including coun-
sel for government agencies, may not attend.
4. The chair of the committee noticing the
deposition may designate that deposition as
part of a joint investigation between com-
mittees, and in that case, provide notice to
the members of the committees. If such a
designation is made, the chair and ranking
minority member of the additional com-
mittee(s) may designate committee staff to
attend pursuant to regulation 3. Members
and designated staff of the committees may
attend and ask questions as set forth below.
5. A deposition shall be conducted by any
member or committee counsel designated by
the chair or ranking minority member of the
Committee that noticed the deposition.
When depositions are conducted by com-
mittee counsel, there shall be no more than
two committee counsel permitted to ques-
tion a witness per round. One of the com-
mittee counsel shall be designated by the
chair and the other by the ranking minority
member per round.
6. Deposition questions shall be pro-
pounded in rounds. The length of each round
shall not exceed 60 minutes per side, and
shall provide equal time to the majority and
the minority. In each round, the member(s)
or committee counsel designated by the
chair shall ask questions first, and the mem-
ber(s) or committee counsel designated by
the ranking minority member shall ask
questions second.
7. Objections must be stated concisely and
in a non-argumentative and non-suggestive
manner. A witness’s counsel may not in-
struct a witness to refuse to answer a ques-
tion, except to preserve a privilege. In the
event of professional, ethical, or other mis-
conduct by the witness’s counsel during the
deposition, the Committee may take any ap-
propriate disciplinary action. The witness
may refuse to answer a question only to pre-
serve a privilege. When the witness has re-
fused to answer a question to preserve a
privilege, members or staff may (i) proceed
with the deposition, or (ii) either at that
time or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling
from the Chair either by telephone or other-
wise. If the Chair overrules any such objec-
tion and thereby orders a witness to answer
any question to which an objection was
lodged, the witness shall be ordered to an-
swer. If a member of the committee chooses
to appeal the ruling of the chair, such appeal
must be made within three days, in writing,
and shall be preserved for committee consid-
eration. The Committee’s ruling on appeal
shall be filed with the clerk of the Com-
mittee and shall be provided to the members
and witness no less than three days before
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA7.004 H25JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1217
January 25, 2019
the reconvened deposition. A deponent who
refuses to answer a question after being di-
rected to answer by the chair may be subject
to sanction, except that no sanctions may be
imposed if the ruling of the chair is reversed
by the committee on appeal.
8. The Committee chair shall ensure that
the testimony is either transcribed or elec-
tronically recorded or both. If a witness’s
testimony is transcribed, the witness or the
witness’s counsel shall be afforded an oppor-
tunity to review a copy. No later than five
days after the witness has been notified of
the opportunity to review the transcript, the
witness may submit suggested changes to
the chair. Committee staff may make any
typographical and technical changes. Sub-
stantive changes, modifications, clarifica-
tions, or amendments to the deposition tran-
script submitted by the witness must be ac-
companied by a letter signed by the witness
requesting the changes and a statement of
the witness’s reasons for each proposed
change. Any substantive changes, modifica-
tions, clarifications, or amendments shall be
included as an appendix to the transcript
conditioned upon the witness signing the
transcript.
9. The individual administering the oath, if
other than a member, shall certify on the
transcript that the witness was duly sworn.
The transcriber shall certify that the tran-
script is a true record of the testimony, and
the transcript shall be filed, together with
any electronic recording, with the clerk of
the committee in Washington, DC. Deposi-
tions shall be considered to have been taken
in Washington, DC, as well as the location
actually taken once filed there with the
clerk of the committee for the committee’s
use. The chair and the ranking minority
member shall be provided with a copy of the
transcripts of the deposition at the same
time.
10. The chair and ranking minority mem-
ber shall consult regarding the release of
deposition testimony, transcripts, or record-
ings, and portions thereof. If either objects
in writing to a proposed release of a deposi-
tion testimony, transcript, or recording, or a
portion thereof, the matter shall be prompt-
ly referred to the committee for resolution.
11. A witness shall not be required to tes-
tify unless the witness has been provided
with a copy of section 103(a) of H. Res. 6,
116th Congress, and these regulations.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 p.m.), under its previous
order, the House adjourned until Mon-
day, January 28, 2019, at noon for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
RULES AND REPORTS SUBMITTED
PURSUANT TO THE CONGRES-
SIONAL REVIEW ACT
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(d), executive
communications [final rules] sub-
mitted to the House pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1) during the period of Au-
gust 7, 2018 through January 3, 2019,
shall be treated as though received on
January 25, 2019. Original dates of
transmittal, numberings, and referrals
to committee of those executive com-
munications remain as indicated in the
Executive Communication section of
the relevant CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
59. Under clause 2 of rule XIV, letter
from the Senior Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, transmitting the Bureau’s
Major final policy guidance — Disclo-
sure of Loan-Level HMDA Data [Dock-
et No.: CFPB-2017-0025] received Janu-
ary 24, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868), was taken from the
Speaker’s table, referred to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
HOYER, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. TRONE,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 790. A bill to provide for a pay in-
crease in 2019 for certain civilian employees
of the Federal Government, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. BALDERSON:
H.R. 791. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr.
KILMER):
H.R. 792. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to reauthorize the Federal
work-study program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 793. A bill to prohibit the use of funds
for the official travel of Members of Congress
during any period in which a Government
shutdown is in effect; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 794. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to provide that individuals in
prison shall, for the purposes of a decennial
census, be attributed to the last place of res-
idence before incarceration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 795. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to conduct a study on the
economic and environmental risks to the
Great Lakes of spills or leaks of oil, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 796. A bill to provide appropriations to
secure the southern border of the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations, and in addition to
the Committees on Education and Labor, the
Judiciary, Homeland Security, Agriculture,
Ways and Means, and Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself and
Mr. LOEBSACK):
H.R. 797. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 798. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to make the exception
for returning workers permanent, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. NORTON, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. RYAN, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. VARGAS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. HECK, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr.
PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 799. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to prohibit certain persons
from furnishing negative credit information
of furloughed employees, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. VARGAS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr. PERL-
MUTTER):
H.R. 800. A bill to amend the Community
Reinvestment Act of 1977 to provide financial
institutions with credit for providing assist-
ance during Government shutdowns; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself and Mr.
PALAZZO):
H.R. 801. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for a credit
against tax for employers of reservists; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
and Mr. VEASEY):
H.R. 802. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a tax credit to
Patriot employers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. GRIF-
FITH, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, and Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia):
H.R. 803. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to prohibit prescription
drug plan sponsors and MA-PD organizations
under the Medicare program from retro-
actively reducing payment on clean claims
submitted by pharmacies; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. WATERS:
H. Res. 77. A resolution expressing the
sense of Congress that financial institutions
and other companies should work
proactively with their customers affected by
the shutdown of the Federal Government
who may be facing short-term financial
hardship and long-term damage to their
creditworthiness through no fault of their
own; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. AMODEI:
H. Res. 78. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States postal facility network is
an asset of significant value and the United
States Postal Service should take appro-
priate measures to maintain, modernize and
fully utilize the existing post office network
for economic growth; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:46 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA7.005 H25JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1218 January 25, 2019
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 790.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. BALDERSON:
H.R. 791.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section V
and
Article I, Section VIII
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 792.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 793.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 794.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I—Section II, Section XIII
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 795.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana:
H.R. 796.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 1 (relating
to providing for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States) and
Clause 18 (relating to the power to make all
laws necessary and proper for carrying out
the powers vested in Congress).
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 797.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 798.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 799.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Commerce Clause
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 800.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Commerce Clause
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 801.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Clause 6 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution .’’
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 802.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 803.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 8: Mrs. FLETCHER and Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 51: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 67: Ms. ADAMS and Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 92: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 141: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY.
H.R. 195: Mr. KILMER and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 276: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 281: Ms. ADAMS, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. BASS, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, Mr. EVANS, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. MOORE, Mr. RICH-
MOND, and Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 479: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 504: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. HURD of Texas,
Mr. BOST, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and Mr. RICE of
South Carolina.
H.R. 510: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 511: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 535: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 545: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. WILD, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 553: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. MOOLENAAR, and Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 554: Mr. CURTIS and Mrs. TORRES of
California.
H.R. 557: Mr. TAKANO and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 587: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. RYAN, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. BASS, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, and Ms.
BONAMICI.
H.R. 588: Ms. TLAIB, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. WELCH, Mr. RUIZ, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
AGUILAR, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 596: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. COOK, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. KINZINGER, and Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 598: Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, and Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina.
H.R. 622: Mr. BALDERSON and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 644: Mr. STEWART and Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 647: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 686: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, and
Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 705: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 712: Mr. COHEN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. JONES,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. YOUNG, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 720: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 736: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 739: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. YOHO, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
CURTIS, and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 744: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 748: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Miss RICE of New York, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. BOST, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. HOLDING, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mr. MASSIE, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. MCKIN-
LEY, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. CALVERT, and Mr.
PETERSON.
H.R. 751: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 757: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 769: Mr. HIGGINS of New York and Mr.
ROSE of New York.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
GOLDEN, and Mr. RUIZ.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H. Res. 12: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H. Res. 33: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 39: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. GREEN of Ten-
nessee, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H. Res. 54: Ms. MOORE, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Miss RICE of New York, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. VELA, Mr. KHANNA,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
WELCH, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. POCAN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. ESHOO, and
Mr. LYNCH.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Jan 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA7.006 H25JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S667
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2019 No. 15
Senate
(Legislative day of Thursday, January 24, 2019)
The Senate met at 12 noon on the ex-
piration of the recess and was called to
order by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You stand behind life’s
shadows, keeping watch over those who
call on Your sacred Name.
Lord, our help comes from You, and
we need Your sufficient grace to bring
an end to this partial government shut-
down.
Lord, don’t permit the weapons
formed against America to prosper, for
You remain our refuge and fortress.
May our lawmakers not be found want-
ing in this challenging hour of national
turmoil. Help them to courageously
contend for what is right, as You give
them the ability to understand Your
unfolding providence.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore.
Please, God, help us.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Continued
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the an-
nouncement this morning that air op-
erations in major cities in this country
on the east coast and other places
could be delayed or are interrupted
comes as no surprise.
This last week, I met with air traffic
controllers in St. Louis and in Aurora,
IL. We have over 600 air traffic control-
lers in Northern Illinois because of
O’Hare, Midway, and so many other
important airports in that region, and,
of course, in St. Louis, with Lambert
airfield and others. They have quite ex-
tensive air operations.
They explained to me what is going
on with air traffic controllers. It
shouldn’t have worried us before the
shutdown. It should frighten us at this
moment.
Currently, air traffic controllers
work 10-hour shifts. It is a stressful
job—an important, stressful job. There
is hardly any person more on the front-
line of public safety than an air traffic
controller. They are expected to con-
centrate—to concentrate exclusively—
for 10 straight hours on each shift. Be-
cause of a shortage of air traffic con-
trollers, they now are working 6 days a
week.
If you can only imagine for a mo-
ment what it is like, and, if you have
been to an air traffic control tower,
you know what it is like—at least from
an outside observer’s point of view.
There they are, with a screen full of
dots. In each one of them is an air-
plane, and in each airplane tens, maybe
even hundreds of lives, and they are
trying to make certain that nothing
terrible occurs.
Imagine the added burden they face
now on the 35th day of this government
shutdown. As of today, they will have
missed two pay periods. The last pay-
check came last year. I listened to
these air traffic controllers explain
what it meant to them. For some of
them, it has gotten down to the basics.
In the St. Louis area, one of the air
traffic controllers has to drive a long
distance each day. They didn’t have
the cash for gasoline. He sold his plas-
ma in order to fill the tank to go to
work.
At another air traffic control meet-
ing in Aurora, one of the controllers
came to me and said that one of his
colleagues, who had been working for
some time, came to him and said that
he only had 5 days left that he could
continue doing this—working for noth-
ing—and then he would have to go look
for other jobs and possibly jeopardize
his future in air traffic control.
The stories came to me one after an-
other. There was a young family where
a little child of the family is suffering
from medical illnesses of a serious na-
ture. Luckily, they still have health in-
surance when they are not being paid.
When it comes to the out-of-pocket ex-
penses and copayments, they don’t
have money for it.
Those are the realities these men and
women face. They are the realities that
have to be on their minds every waking
moment. We pray, as passengers in
these aircraft, that the only thing on
their mind is their job. Instead, for
many of these people, it is just basi-
cally getting by, keeping their family
together.
A lady came up to me at the airport
at O’Hare and told me that she and a
lot of friends run a food pantry in Oak
Park, which is west of the city of Chi-
cago, and she said to me: We have prob-
lems. The Federal employees who are
coming around now are in desperate
need of help, and we are running out of
supplies at our food pantries.
Has it come to that in America,
where we have to rely on food pantries
and charity for men and women who
are performing such a vital function as
air traffic control? That is the reality
of the situation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.000 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S668 January 25, 2019
Yesterday we had two votes on the
floor of the Senate. I know that every
Federal employee and their families
were tuned in, in the hopes that this
shutdown would end yesterday, that we
would muster the courage and political
will to come together on a bipartisan
basis. We didn’t. We fell short of the 60
votes needed on both of the measures
that were called.
There is a ray of hope but only a
small one. The conversations at the
highest level continued last night and
even into today. My only hope is that
the President will decide that this
shutdown has to come to an end.
He alone stood in the beginning and
said he was proud to claim that he was
the author of this shutdown. I don’t see
how anyone can be proud of what has
happened in this country. It is time to
put it behind us. It is time to move for-
ward with serious negotiations about
border security and other issues but
not at the expense of 800,000 Federal
employees.
VENEZUELA
Mr. President, last year, my staff
prevailed on me to make a trip which I
really wasn’t sure I should do. It was to
Caracas, Venezuela. I had never been to
that country, and I was visiting there
at the invitation of their government.
Nicolas Maduro was the President of
Venezuela, and he did not enjoy the
very best of reputations, but yet he was
willing to see me.
So for several days I went down to
Venezuela, met with President Maduro,
met with the opposition, met with the
American who was being held prisoner
by the Maduro regime, and in matter of
a few days, got an impression of what
was happening in Venezuela.
It is hard to imagine that 30 years
ago, Venezuela was one of the most up-
and-coming countries in South Amer-
ica. It was considered one of most pros-
perous. Their oil industry was gener-
ating money in amounts they had
never imagined before. The lifestyles of
people were improving. There were a
lot of things to be said on the positive
side of the ledger, but over the span of
the next 20 or 30 years, things became
tremendously worse.
Last year, as I had this opportunity
to travel in Venezuela and meet with
then-President Maduro, I met also with
members of the elected National As-
sembly, civic and humanitarian groups,
medical professionals, and the excep-
tional men and women who were work-
ing at the U.S. Embassy.
What I found was that this once-
proud and relatively wealthy democ-
racy, last year was on the verge of po-
litical, economic, and humanitarian
collapse.
The stories I learned in that short pe-
riod of time were heartbreaking—of
children fainting at school because
they were hungry, the return of dis-
eases that had once been eradicated, a
massive outflow of millions of refugees
from Venezuela to neighboring coun-
tries, some rates of infectious disease
being rivaled only by war zones in this
world. So many children were going so
hungry while the government cronies
were siphoning off millions of dollars
from the state food aid program. It was
infuriating and disgusting.
I walked down the streets of Caracas
and saw firsthand Venezuelans emaci-
ated, waiting in long lines at ATM ma-
chines, and I asked: Why is it every
hour of the night and day there is a
long line at the ATM machine? Infla-
tion was so bad in that country that
people had to wait patiently in line to
max out each day’s withdrawal from
their accounts so they would have
enough money for a roundtrip bus ride
the next day.
I walked through one of the private
hospitals, and I heard of unimaginable
shortages of key medicines, shortages
even worse in the state hospitals,
where simple blood tests were no
longer possible.
In fact, just this week, a collabo-
rative and brave Venezuelan media ef-
fort entitled ‘‘Petrofraude’’ released a
devastating investigation. It details
how the Venezuelan Government deci-
mated the nation’s oil supply to enrich
the cronies of President Maduro and
attempt to buy diplomatic support, all
while its people were dying of mal-
nutrition, and inflation was soaring be-
yond 1 million percent.
When I met President Maduro last
year, I told him—this was in April—
that if he proceeded with the planned,
rigged election, he would find himself
even more isolated in the world, and he
would bring even greater suffering on
his people. He ignored me, and of
course, sadly, that is what happened.
In May, he went forward with a bogus
election whose illegitimate results
were not recognized by many countries
in the region.
Maduro also then kicked out Amer-
ica’s top diplomats at the time—two of
our finest whom I have had the pleas-
ure of meeting and working with on
the trip.
Yet, during my visit, I was also in-
spired and found some hope. There
were brave civic leaders who were look-
ing for public service for the right rea-
son—healthcare workers, doing the
best they could with almost nothing,
and the next generation of young elect-
ed members of the National Assembly,
the only legitimate democratic body
left in the nation of Venezuela.
These young leaders had notably won
election in areas that once supported
Hugo Chavez, supposedly the patriarch
of the country and the godfather of
Maduro, but they had prevailed in dis-
tricts that had gone for Chavez in pre-
vious elections because the people in
those areas had grown disillusioned
with the years of corruption, repres-
sion, and movement toward dictator-
ship by Mr. Maduro.
Among this group of patriotic elected
officials were some extraordinary lead-
ers with whom I managed to have din-
ner one evening.
We went to a somewhat secret loca-
tion on the second floor of a neighbor-
hood restaurant. There were five of
them. They were on the opposition side
from President Maduro. They were
careful not to meet or be seen too
much in public, and I sat and talked to
them about why they were in politics.
They weren’t even being paid. Maduro
had decided to stop paying them after
they were elected, and yet they contin-
ued to try to serve.
At one point, one of them said to me:
Senator, if you come back next year, I
can tell you that of the five of us, two
will likely be in prison, two will be ex-
iled, and one may have disappeared.
That is what happens when you oppose
the Maduro regime.
I thought to myself, there is a heavy
price to pay for politics in our country,
but it doesn’t get close to what these
young people were facing.
Seated at that table that night was a
young 35-year-old man. His name was
Juan Guaido—the same Juan Guaido
who was recently chosen as President
of the Venezuela National Assembly.
This last Wednesday, he did a coura-
geous and dangerous thing. He an-
nounced that under the Constitution,
he believed he had the power to take
control and to call for a free and cred-
ible election, and he announced that he
would be the interim President of Ven-
ezuela under that Constitution.
It was a dramatic move. Guaido now
finds himself as the interim Ven-
ezuelan leader—35 years old.
What has happened since he made
that announcement? The United States
has recognized him, as has Canada, and
virtually every other country in South
and Central America, save three, and I
will spell them out: Bolivia, Cuba, and
Nicaragua which refuse to recognize
him.
The Secretary General of the Organi-
zation of American States has also rec-
ognized him.
Under article 233 of the Venezuelan
Constitution, if the Presidency of the
country is deemed unfilled by a vote of
the National Assembly, then the Na-
tional Assembly President ‘‘shall take
charge of the Presidency’’ and lead a
timely transition back to a legitimate
government.
This is what has happened on the
streets of Caracas because of his cour-
age: The National Assembly passed a
measure finding that the Office of the
Presidency was vacant due to a clearly
stolen election.
So Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colom-
bia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
the United Kingdom have all recog-
nized Guaido as Venezuela’s legitimate
leader, in addition to the United States
and Canada, I might add.
Earlier this week, I also joined in
support of his effort, calling on him to
fulfill his constitutional role to help
Venezuela return to the community of
democracies and to do so with a
thoughtful and timely transition to a
credible election in which the Ven-
ezuelan people can once again choose
their leaders through a fair, trans-
parent process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.001 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S669
January 25, 2019
Yesterday I had the privilege to
speak at length with President Guaido
and offer my support for his transition.
Just as when I met with him last year
in Caracas, he was deeply thoughtful
and expressed his love of his country
that he serves. That couldn’t have been
more clear in our conversation.
He knows how much the Venezuelan
people have suffered, how the Maduro
regime bankrupted the nation and de-
stroyed its democracy and economy,
and how desperate the people of this
country are to rejoin the community of
democracies.
I told him we in the United States
stand ready to help, and the Ven-
ezuelan people need our help to rebuild
their country’s democracy and econ-
omy and to help return the millions of
Venezuelan refugees safely.
Yesterday the administration
pledged $20 million of humanitarian
support to the opposition, to those who
are in the streets trying to reclaim de-
mocracy in that country.
I support that $20 million and hope
other countries will join us. It is just
the beginning of the help they will
need.
This once-proud country can return
to the community of democracies. It
can start to restore the faith of the
people in their government. It can
start to answer the basics.
To think of what they are going
through, to think that children are
fainting in school because of malnutri-
tion and that basic antibiotics are not
even available in the hospitals, these
are unthinkable developments in any
modern country in our hemisphere. I
hope this effort, as dangerous as it may
be for the new interim President, leads
to a credible free election and the res-
toration of democracy in Venezuela.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, obvi-
ously, the news that is dominating
Washington, DC, and indeed the Nation
is the shutdown.
Yesterday, I joined in a colloquy with
other colleagues, both Democrats and
Republicans, asking that we find some
middle way. The President clearly has
moved. He has offered to reopen the
government, I am told, if only a down-
payment will be made to construct the
wall, and has come forward with a
good-faith effort. Ms. PELOSI—I would
ask that she, as the Speaker, who
seems to be the chief negotiating part-
ner, do the same.
I myself have two pieces of legisla-
tion that I will be offering today or
Monday that will ease the burden on
those Federal workers who are still
working and not getting paid—and we
thank them so much for doing so—as
well as come up with an alternative
way to perhaps fund the wall.
NFC CHAMPIONSHIP CONTROVERSY
Mr. President, with the seriousness
of that, I also want to address one
other issue that is particularly serious
to folks in Louisiana. I hope it doesn’t
seem out of place with the shutdown,
but I can state that to the folks back
home, it is something that continues
to disturb them.
I would like to bring up the NFC
championship game. The State of Lou-
isiana is outraged because of what hap-
pened in the Superdome last Sunday.
Televisions were broken, Super Bowl
boycott concerts scheduled, billboards
were put up in Atlanta, and fans filed
lawsuits. My colleague in the House of
Representatives is calling for the NFL
commissioner, Roger Goodell, to tes-
tify in front of Congress on the trav-
esty that occurred 5 days ago.
What happened, in my belief and the
belief of many, was the most blatant
and consequential blown call in NFL
history. For those who missed it, on
Sunday night during an NFC cham-
pionship game, the score was tied with
less than 2 minutes to go. It is third
and long, and the Saints are in position
to score. Drew Brees throws a pass,
which is right there. There is the ball,
there is the receiver, and there is the
defender.
For those not familiar with foot-
ball—and I know the Presiding Officer
played at the University of Arkansas;
not a bad school, even though it is not
a Louisiana school—the defender is not
looking back at the quarterback. He is
not looking to intercept. He is only
looking to plow through the receiver.
Every drunk sitting on a stool in
every bar throughout the Nation
looked up at that TV and said: There is
interference.
What you don’t see from this picture
I am showing, though, is there is also
helmet-to-helmet contact, which is
also a penalty.
It was a twofer. On one play, the Los
Angeles Rams defender committed two
egregious penalties, and everybody in
the Superdome and everybody watch-
ing knew it happened—except for him,
the referee.
I don’t mean to pick on this referee.
I am sure he is a nice man, a good fam-
ily man, et cetera. But he missed a call
with less than 2 minutes that everyone
agrees would have changed the course
of the game. The Saints would have
had a first down automatically, they
would have drained the clock, they
would have then kicked a field goal,
and the game would have been over.
LeBron James, Dez Bryant, Melvin
Gordon, Richard Sherman, J.J. Watt,
and even Hulk Hogan took to Twitter
to call out this absurd call.
The defender said: I interfered with
him.
He admitted it.
I thought I was going to get called,
but I didn’t.
The pass interference was not called,
and now the Rams will play in the
Super Bowl against the Patriots in-
stead of the Saints, which is kind of a
shame. It really is a taint upon the
Super Bowl. It won’t be the two best
teams; it will be the two teams that
got there, at least in one case, because
someone did not see an obvious call.
Now, I don’t just mean to kvetch—
and obviously all Saints fans continue
to be upset—but it is actually, if you
will, about the integrity of the game. If
you speak of the NFL, it almost be-
comes a metaphor for that which is the
most competitive, the highest quality,
where coaches and athletes dedicate
themselves, honing their skills to the
absolute highest level. As folks say, if
you can win in the NFL, you can win
anywhere. It is a metaphor. The
Saints—every football team invests
heavily in this. Football fans really
come to town on this.
So the question is to the NFL. We
have a few questions for you.
How are the officials selected for this
game? For example, they grade offi-
cials after every game. Were the best
officials sent to this game, or was it
just a rotation? If it is just a rotation,
how did the referees who officiated this
game grade?
I don’t want this to be too personal,
but if somebody commits a penalty
during a football game, the referee will
say: No. 74 was offsides, and the NFL
has accountability in the performance
of everybody in the game. So I think
Saints fans would like to have an ac-
countability for the referees.
Did people look into conflicts of in-
terest? It has been pointed out that the
referee who missed the call lives in Los
Angeles. Is he a diehard Rams fan?
Again, how did these referees get
scored in this game? After every game,
the referee is kind of given a grade.
Was it an A-plus or a C-minus? And if
it is a lower score, what was the com-
ment on this particular play?
Saints coach Sean Payton said the
senior vice president of officiating ad-
mitted to him in a private phone call
that the official messed up, but there is
still no official statement from the
NFL. Perhaps they can answer these
questions in an official statement.
Football is not only a game; it is part
of our culture. I would state that the
NFL has a responsibility to the mil-
lions of fans across the country to en-
sure the integrity of the game and to
answer these questions and perhaps a
few others.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, this
morning the FAA grounded planes at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.003 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S670 January 25, 2019
LaGuardia Airport, averaging more
than 1,000 flights a day. They made this
decision because of a shortage in air
traffic control staff, who are not being
paid because the President fulfilled his
promise to shut down the government
35 days ago.
The FAA’s website crashed as people
looked for information. Stocks for air-
lines took a hit, and air traffic in other
airports, including Philadelphia and
Newark, were delayed because of staff-
ing shortages. We will continue to see
the ripple effects of this today. It is not
like if travel in and out of LaGuardia is
disrupted, it will be business as usual
at other airports. More flights will be
delayed. LaGuardia has resumed oper-
ations, but what is clear is that the
ATC, or the air traffic control staff, is
thin, and they are making game-time
decisions—go, no go.
Apparently, we need another re-
minder that this shutdown is stupid
and dangerous, that it leaves commu-
nities and commerce on the edge, be-
cause the voices of those affected al-
ready—Native Americans, Coast Guard
servicemembers, FBI agents, IRS em-
ployees, National Park Service work-
ers, and domestic violence victims—
weren’t enough. The FAA is unique be-
cause they have an obligation and the
authority under the law to make a go-
no-go decision based on safety. They
can look at their staffing numbers and
say: We can’t do this safely, so stop.
But the FBI and the Coast Guard don’t
get to say: Hey, hold off, everybody.
TSA agents and the TSA itself does
not have the authority to make a simi-
lar call. They can raise the alarm, but
they do not have the authority to stop
people from coming through check-
points. They just have to make do. The
same goes for all of the families af-
fected by the shutdown. There is no
‘‘go-no-go’’ decision. They just have to
try to make it work.
The FAA decision demonstrates what
is happening throughout the govern-
ment and throughout society right
now. People are right on the edge.
Some of them have fallen off that edge.
Today, the shutdown became an incon-
venience to the very small percentage
of Americans who fly regularly, but,
more importantly, today is an indi-
cator of what is happening to the gov-
ernment, of who matters to the govern-
ment.
I certainly hope, as lots of pundits,
and journalists, and politicians have
mentioned, that once air traffic starts
to slow, once airports get snarled, we
are at the end of this process and the
shutdown will end shortly. I don’t
know if that is true, but I sure hope it
is true.
On another level, it should precipi-
tate a little shame, a little introspec-
tion about how we got here, because to
fix this now, when airports are snarled,
is to say we were OK with people not
getting food stamps, we were OK with
Native American health clinics run-
ning out of medicine, Federal workers
working without two paychecks, and
Coast Guard men and women deployed
without paychecks, so long as the
President can build his wall. But if
flights are delayed, if the elites are im-
periled or inconvenienced in any way
at the all, game over, and shame on us
if that is what it takes to shut down
this shutdown.
This entire time, as funding has run
out for food banks and domestic vio-
lence shelters, everyone has been fo-
cused on whether or not Speaker
PELOSI will win the State of the Union
exchange with the President, and what
are the polling numbers, and how are
Democrats and Republicans positioning
this, and will these polling drops mat-
ter in 2020?
But the moment the elite of this
country have a moment of inconven-
ience, this thing seems to be wrapping
up, and shame on us.
Everyone is focused on this slow, hor-
rible train wreck that they can watch
with some distance. Suddenly, air trav-
el stops and everybody freaks out.
Shame on us. It is day 35. People have
gone without—without food, medicine,
gas in their car, paychecks—but de-
layed flights is the straw that breaks
the camel’s back.
This has to end. But it should never
have even started. It shouldn’t have
taken a day like this to be, possibly,
maybe not the end, maybe not the be-
ginning but the beginning of the end of
this shutdown.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NINETY-FIRST SENATE PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to offer a few
reflections in these opening days—now
opening weeks—of the 116th Congress.
On January 3, I was honored to be
sworn in as the 91st Senate President
pro tempore. As many of you know, I
love history. I studied to be a history
teacher, and I have devoted six decades
of my life to public service where,
maybe, I helped make a little history
along the way. I have represented the
people of Iowa as a legislator since
1958.
At the age of 25, as the youngest leg-
islator in the Iowa State House, I never
dreamed that one day I would be
named a constitutional officer in the
Senate.
For the last 38 years, it has been my
great privilege to serve and represent
the people of Iowa as a Senator. It is
with great pride on behalf of my home
State that I step into this leadership
role and follow in the footsteps of my
predecessors as President pro tempore
of the Senate. In fact, one of those
predecessors is from my home State. It
was 100 years ago exactly that Iowa Re-
publican Senator Albert Baird
Cummins became the 68th Senate
President pro tempore. He served as
President pro tempore from 1919 until
1925.
In my nearly four decades here in the
Senate, I served alongside seven Presi-
dents pro tempore: Senator Thurmond,
of South Carolina; Senator Stennis, of
Mississippi; Senator Byrd, of West Vir-
ginia; Senator Stevens, of Alaska; Sen-
ator Inouye, of Hawaii; Senator LEAHY,
of Vermont; and Senator Hatch, of
Utah. Each served with honor and dis-
tinction, bringing their own style and
substance to this office.
When Senator Byrd was elected to
this office, he noted that ‘‘the election
of a Senator to the office of the Presi-
dent pro tempore has always been con-
sidered one of the highest honors of-
fered to a Senator by the Senate
body.’’
I am proud to join the ranks of this
impressive and respected group of pub-
lic servants and legislators. Article I of
the Constitution directs that a Presi-
dent pro tempore be chosen by the Sen-
ate. The President pro tempore serves
as the President of the Senate when
the Vice President is unavailable and
serves a number of other ceremonial
and ministerial functions.
I appreciate the support of my col-
leagues who elected me to this posi-
tion. In Federalist No. 62, James Madi-
son considered it a virtue that Sen-
ators have ‘‘more advanced age and a
longer period of citizenship.’’ Tradi-
tionally, the President pro tempore has
also served as a senior statesman for
the Senate, standing up for the values
that make the Senate the world’s
greatest deliberative body. Perhaps
that is why it is customary for a Sen-
ator of the majority party with the
longest record of continuous service to
become President pro tempore.
When you have been here as long as
I have, you learn some very valuable
lessons. You learn that you have to
work hard, put your constituents first,
and stand up for your principles. That
is also how you happen to get reelected
by the people of your State. Because
the Senate is not a majoritarian body,
you also learn that in order to get any-
thing important done, you have to seek
consensus and develop relationships,
and develop those relationships on both
sides of the aisle. You have to learn the
art of negotiation and bipartisan com-
promise, something that seems to be
missing right now as the government is
shut down. You also learn that it is not
enough to pass laws. You also have to
make sure that those laws are followed
and that the taxpayer dollars are spent
appropriately according to what Con-
gress intends in the law.
The humorist Will Rogers once said
that about all he could say about the
Senate is that it opens with a prayer
and it closes with an investigation. In
my experience, that is not always a bad
thing because it is by conducting over-
sight and investigations that we hold
the executive branch responsible to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.005 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S671
January 25, 2019
taxpayers—no matter which party is in
power. That is why I have always dedi-
cated a significant amount of resources
to oversight, even when I was a new
Senator. That is why, when some have
suggested that Agencies should only
respond to the oversight requests of
committee chairmen and ranking
members, I have fought back—even
when 2 years ago, the new administra-
tion under Trump tried to say that
only chairmen and ranking members
should get this information—because I
believe that every Senator has a duty
to the taxpayers who sent us here to
take an active part in congressional
oversight efforts.
The Supreme Court observed in Wat-
kins v. United States that ‘‘the power
of Congress to conduct investigations
is inherent in the legislative process.’’
Oversight helps us to write better bills
and to be wiser with taxpayer dollars.
It is also how we make the Agencies
accountable to the American people.
Over time, as our government has
grown in size, Congress has delegated
more and more power to the executive
branch—probably more power than we
should have. Some of the delegation is
necessary for the government to func-
tion efficiently, but there is an inher-
ent danger whenever Congress dele-
gates power to the executive branch,
especially if we delegate legislative au-
thority.
When they drafted the Constitution,
the Founders of our Nation were right-
fully concerned that those in power
would be tempted to abuse power in
favor of their own interests. As we all
studied in high school government, to
prevent this, the Founders divided
power among three branches of govern-
ment and set up a system of govern-
ment in which, to paraphrase James
Madison in Federalist No. 51: Ambition
[is] made to counteract ambition. It is
through this system of checks and bal-
ances between ambitious branches of
government that our fundamental lib-
erties are protected. The concentration
of too much power in the executive
branch upsets the careful balance of
the separated powers that was envi-
sioned by our Founders.
As legislators, it is our duty then, as
the Founders rightfully intended, for
us to protect and defend the interests
of our branch of government. So, when
we write laws, we must be careful not
to cede too much authority to the ex-
ecutive branch, and we must make sure
that if we have delegated authority, we
conduct rigorous oversight to make
sure it is being used appropriately. It is
only through rigorous oversight that
we make sure that the government of
the people and by the people then
works for the people.
As President pro tempore, I will as-
sure my colleagues and my constitu-
ents that I will bring the same Iowa
work ethic, decency, and integrity to
this job that I have cultivated through-
out my years of public service. Like
my President pro tempore prede-
cessors, I will work to uphold the dig-
nity and decorum of this body and to
defend the Senate’s institutional inter-
ests. It is what our Founders expected
and the American people deserve.
Each Member of the Senate is privi-
leged to serve. I especially welcome
nine of the newest Members to the Sen-
ate. There are seven Republicans and
two Democrats who are new: Senator
BLACKBURN of Tennessee, Senator
BRAUN of Indiana, Senator CRAMER of
North Dakota, Senator HAWLEY of Mis-
souri, Senator MCSALLY of Arizona,
Senator ROMNEY of Utah, Senator
ROSEN of Nevada, Senator SINEMA of
Arizona, and Senator SCOTT of Florida.
To my newest colleagues whom I
have just named and, of course, to all
of my colleagues who have been around
here for quite a while, I want you to
know my door is open. As I tell a lot of
new colleagues—and I can repeat it for
older colleagues—if you want to know
anything about what CHUCK GRASSLEY
is thinking or doing, just ask me. I will
bet, 99 percent of the time, I will be
able to tell you exactly what it is. If I
can’t, I will be glad to tell you why I
can’t tell you. I look forward to work-
ing with each of you in the weeks,
months, and years ahead.
With great honor and, of course, hu-
mility, I look forward to my service as
President pro tempore. Like my good
friend and our most recent President
pro tempore, ORRIN HATCH, I look for-
ward to opening the people’s business
each day in the Senate. I will then
work the rest of that day to deliver on
my commitment to find solutions to
our country’s most pressing problems,
to seek common ground with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle, and
to exercise rigorous oversight over the
other branches of government. Our Na-
tion’s most pressing problem today is
that of getting the government opened
up.
I thank my colleagues.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
cess subject to the call of the Chair.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 1:30 p.m.,
recessed until 2:44 p.m., and was reas-
sembled when called to order by the
Presiding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will come to order.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
for weeks, I have continuously said I
wouldn’t let the Senate become a the-
ater for show votes and messaging
stunts from either side. We would only
vote on plans that stood an actual
chance of being signed by the President
and, thus, obviously becoming law.
So I was glad to hear today the Presi-
dent’s announcement that he and our
Democratic colleagues have reached an
agreement that will immediately re-
open the government while providing
the room to negotiate a funding bill for
the Department of Homeland Security.
Further, negotiations on DHS will be
prioritized over the consideration of
any other funding bill. With coopera-
tion, we can pass legislation opening
the government, and we can send the
DHS appropriations bill to a conference
today with the House.
I am glad the closed portions of the
Federal Government will reopen and
get back online. I am glad the dedi-
cated men and women of the Coast
Guard, law enforcement, the TSA, and
all of the other Federal employees will
not have to go longer without pay for
their work and will receive their back-
pay. I know the pain this episode has
caused for many Kentuckians and for
people all over our country. They de-
serve this resolution.
In going forward, I hope our Demo-
cratic friends will stay true to the
commitment they have stated con-
stantly over the past weeks that once
the government was reopened, they
would be perfectly willing to negotiate
in good faith on full-year government
funding that would include a signifi-
cant investment in urgently needed
border security measures, including
physical barriers.
After all, the only way Federal work-
ers are going to have stability and cer-
tainty beyond the next 3 weeks and the
only way our border is going to have
real security is if the Democrats will
stop playing partisan games and get se-
rious about negotiating with the Presi-
dent on a long-term compromise.
The days ahead will tell us whether
our Democratic colleagues are actually
serious about securing our Nation—
whether they actually mean what they
say. The President has called on the
Senate to act on these proposals, and
now that there has been an agreement
between the Democrats and the White
House, we can make that happen.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
the longest shutdown in American his-
tory will finally end today. The Presi-
dent has agreed to our request to open
the government and then debate border
security, which is great news for 800,000
Federal workers and millions of Ameri-
cans who depend upon government
services. I thank President Trump and
Leader MCCONNELL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.006 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S672 January 25, 2019
As just outlined, we have agreed to
pass a clean 3-week continuing resolu-
tion to reopen the government. Also,
we will pass legislation in the Senate
that will be related to the Department
of Homeland Security so the House and
Senate can participate in a conference
committee on that legislation. In the
conference, Democrats and Repub-
licans will have the opportunity to ne-
gotiate the details of the Homeland Se-
curity bill, which will include issues of
border security, humanitarian aid,
drug inspection technology, and many
others. We expect the continuing reso-
lution to clear the House and be signed
by the President today.
As soon as the President signs the
legislation to open the government, we
in Congress will roll up our sleeves. I
genuinely hope this process will
produce something that is good for the
country and acceptable to both sides.
We don’t agree on some of the specifics
of border security—the Democrats are
against the wall—but we agree on
many things, such as the need for new
technology and the need to strengthen
security at our ports of entry, and that
bodes well for our coming to an even-
tual agreement.
I believe there is good faith on both
sides to reach an agreement, and we
will work diligently to achieve one. Be-
cause we have set this up as a con-
ference, Democratic and Republican
leadership from the House and Senate
will be involved, as will the appropri-
ators from those committees.
Most importantly, this agreement
means the government will reopen and
that 800,000 Federal employees will fi-
nally get paid. After over a month of
increasing desperation, our dedicated
public servants will get the relief and
paychecks they are entitled to, includ-
ing backpay.
From the bottom of my heart, I
thank the Federal workers who have
worked so selflessly this past month.
They should never have to go through
this again. We will do everything we
can to make sure they will not have to.
The past month has proven just how
vital government services are to the
American people, whether they be air
traffic control, food safety inspections,
the Coast Guard, national parks, and so
many others. With this agreement, the
TSA, the Border Patrol, and FBI
agents will all be paid again for pro-
tecting our country. Our airports will
get back on track, and we will resume
the maintenance of our cherished na-
tional parks. The IRS will be able to
issue tax refunds in a timely manner—
all critical for the well-being of the
American people.
As Democrats have said all along, the
solution to this impasse was to sepa-
rate funding the government from our
disagreements over border security.
This agreement endorses that position.
It reopens the government without pre-
conditions, and it gives Democrats and
Republicans an opportunity to discuss
border security without holding hun-
dreds of thousands of American work-
ers hostage.
Hopefully, it means a lesson has been
learned—shutting down the govern-
ment over a policy difference is self-de-
feating. It accomplishes nothing but
pain and suffering for the country and
the American people. That is a lesson
we all must bear in mind when this
next continuing resolution expires,
which will make its success more like-
ly. We can never hold American work-
ers hostage again.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President,
government shutdowns are never justi-
fied, and I have opposed every one of
them. This shutdown—the longest in
our Nation’s history—has caused real
harm to 800,000 Federal employees and
their families.
Just today, I heard from a Federal
employee in Belfast, ME, who has
worked for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service for 32 years. He has two chil-
dren with type 1 diabetes, and with the
soaring costs of insulin, he was begin-
ning to worry about how he would be
able to afford insulin for his children.
He was concerned that a prolonged
shutdown would have an adverse im-
pact on his insurance coverage.
The shutdown has also hurt Ameri-
cans’ access to Federal Agencies and
threatened housing assistance for low-
income families, our seniors, and peo-
ple with disabilities. It has harmed
small businesses that have contracts
with Federal Agencies for certain serv-
ices but that have not been getting
paid. Thus, their employees have been
at risk of being laid off.
That is why I voted twice this week
to end the shutdown and reopen the
government. Although neither proposal
received enough votes to pass, we saw
glimmers of hope that have produced
results. I note that after the failed
votes, a bipartisan group of 16 Senators
came to the floor, and each one of us
indicated a willingness to compromise.
I am pleased that today there is real
progress. The President and Senate Re-
publicans and Democrats have come to-
gether and agreed to reopen govern-
ment until February 15, while negotia-
tions on border security issues con-
tinue. That is so important. As the
Presiding Officer is chair of the Appro-
priations Subcommittee on the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, I know she
will be playing a key role in this area.
Let each of us on the Democratic side
of the aisle, on the Republican side of
the aisle, and in the administration
pledge that we will negotiate in good
faith and work to hammer out a com-
promise on border security so we will
not face the same situation again on
February 15.
I, for one, will keep working with my
colleagues and with the White House to
ensure that hundreds of thousands of
hard-working, patriotic public servants
will stay on the job; that this will not
just be a temporary reprieve that will
allow backpay to be made to them as
early as the beginning of next week but
rather that it will lead to a permanent
solution so we can reopen government
beyond February 15 and through the
end of the fiscal year—that is, until
September 30—and so that in the fu-
ture, we can avoid ever resorting to the
shutdown of government again. It is
never good policy.
Let us work together over these next
3 weeks to come up with a compromise
on border security, and let us show the
American people that we can govern ef-
fectively.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, ob-
viously, this is a happy and positive
day not only for Federal employees but
for the American people as we reopen
the government, but we should also in-
dicate there is something absolutely
pathetic about what has happened.
Let us not forget for a second that 5
weeks ago, the U.S. Senate unani-
mously—every Republican, every Dem-
ocrat—voted for essentially the same
legislation that will likely pass today
and that 5 weeks ago we voted to keep
the government open. Then President
Trump responded to FOX television
and other rightwing outlets and an-
nounced that he would shut down the
government unless he got his wall.
For 5 weeks, think of the suffering, of
the uncertainty, of the pain that hun-
dreds of thousands of Federal workers
have been forced to experience—work-
ers who have worried about whether
they will be able to pay their mort-
gages, whether they will be able to feed
their kids, whether they will be able to
go to the doctor when they get sick,
worried about what kind of damage
will have been done to their credit rat-
ings. That is a result of Trump’s shut-
down. If my ears heard correctly—and I
think they did—Trump, even today,
just a few minutes ago, announced that
he is prepared to shut down the govern-
ment again unless he gets his way.
I think the time is long overdue for
the American people to tell this Presi-
dent that he is not a dictator, that he
is not a King, that he is not the des-
potic ruler of Saudi Arabia, that he is
not his authoritarian friend Vladimir
Putin of Russia. He is the President of
United States, and he cannot and must
not continue to threaten to shut down
this government and hold hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers hostage.
While I am delighted that the govern-
ment is going to be reopened and de-
lighted that Federal employees will get
their backpay, I remain concerned
about the over 1 million contract em-
ployees—often folks who work for low
wages—who not only have lost pay but,
at this point at least, are not protected
by any legislation to make sure they
get their backpay. That is something I
hope we can address.
The truth is that despite what the
President tells us, there is nobody in
the Senate or in the House who is not
concerned about border security. Some
of us believe that spending, as a down-
payment, $5.7 billion on a wall, with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.010 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S673
January 25, 2019
many billions more to come, is not an
effective use of tax dollars when we
talk about border security. There are
better ways to do it and more cost-ef-
fective ways to do it.
There is no debate that border secu-
rity is an important issue, but one of
the things that concerns me very
much—and I say this to the Presiding
Officer, who is chairman of the Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Com-
mittee—is that border security and a
wall are not the only issues facing the
American people. There are 30 million
Americans who have no health insur-
ance, and many more who are under-
insured. By far, we pay the highest cost
for prescription drugs of any people on
the face of the Earth.
Border security is important, and it
must be dealt with, but we also have to
deal with a dysfunctional healthcare
system and, in my view, do what every
other major country does, which is to
guarantee healthcare to all people as a
right.
Border security is an important
issue, but so is the fact that tens of
millions of workers in this country are
working for starvation wages. I was
just in South Carolina the other day,
and I talked to a waitress. She receives
$2.25 pay, plus tips. Millions of workers
in this country are working for starva-
tion wages of $8 or $9 or $10 an hour. We
have to raise the minimum wage to a
living wage.
I am proud that in the House—I ex-
pect they will pass a minimum wage
bill of $15 an hour, and when that bill
comes to the Senate, I hope we can do
the same.
Border security is an important
issue, but so is the fact that the sci-
entific community tells us we have a
very short window of opportunity to
address the global crisis of climate
change. What the scientists have told
us is that if we do not boldly reduce
carbon emissions over the next 12 years
by transforming our energy system
away from fossil fuel to energy effi-
ciency and sustainable energy, this
country—and, in fact, countries all
over the world—will suffer irreparable
damage from climate change.
We have to address the crisis of cli-
mate change. Border security is impor-
tant. We have to deal with it, but we
also have to deal with climate change.
We have to deal with a broken crimi-
nal justice system, which, today, cre-
ates a situation where, in America, we
have more people in jail than any other
country on Earth.
Obviously, if we have learned any-
thing in recent weeks, we have to deal
with an immigration system that ev-
erybody acknowledges does not work,
and we have to pass comprehensive im-
migration reform.
My point is that I hope very much we
will not continue to be held hostage by
this President, who, once again, just an
hour ago, has threatened another gov-
ernment shutdown in 3 weeks if he
doesn’t get his way. I hope very much
that there will be serious discussions
on border security—a very important
issue.
President Trump, stop holding the
American people hostage. Stop threat-
ening to shut down the government.
Stop telling hundreds of thousands of
Federal employees that they have to
come to work when they will not get
paid. Stop denying or threatening to
deny the American people access to the
vital services that they need.
Today is a good day in the sense that
I hope and expect that the government
will be reopened, but how sad it is that
after all of the suffering and all of the
uncertainty our Federal employees
have faced, we are back to exactly
where we were 5 weeks ago when this
body voted unanimously—every Repub-
lican and every Democrat—to keep the
government open.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ALEXANDER). The Senator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
think it is good that we are standing
here on the Senate floor and acknowl-
edging the news the President has just
announced—that the government will
reopen as early as today and that those
good, dedicated, and hard-working Fed-
eral employees who have either been
furloughed or who have been working
without pay for 35 days now will be
able to get back to work and will be
able to receive just compensation for
their work. This is important news.
This is good news. This is long-awaited
news.
In fairness, this never should have
happened. I concur with my colleague
from Maine that there is never a good
reason to have a government shutdown
in the first place. We have dem-
onstrated that we can do it, but it sure
isn’t something that should be done.
I think the men and women who have
been so directly and immediately im-
pacted are not only relieved this after-
noon, but they are saying: For heaven’s
sake, Congress, make sure you don’t
put us through this again.
Count me in that camp of working to
make sure we don’t put these men and
women and their families through this
again.
I have been holding Skype sessions
with the spouses of our active Coast
Guard in Alaska. Last evening, I had
an opportunity to connect with the
spouses from Sitka. It is absolutely
gut-wrenching to hear a young wife,
who has a baby who is now less than 1
year old, and her husband, who has
been out at sea for 5 months—he has
just come home—relay the conversa-
tion of the two of them crying in bed as
they are discussing whether she should
leave Sitka with their baby to go back
and live with either his parents or her
parents because they cannot afford to
stay in the Coast Guard community
that they are in.
I am scheduled to have yet another
Skype session with the spouses of our
Coast Guard men and women from Cor-
dova and Petersburg just 40 minutes
from now. I think it is going to be a
much better conversation with them
than with the spouses from Sitka yes-
terday because we will be able to share
the good news.
It was interesting to see, as I have
visited with them and have heard their
very direct stories, that they are pret-
ty selfless. They are pretty selfless in
saying: As hard as this is on us and as
much as we want to be paid, we want to
make sure that others who serve as
public servants—our Federal employ-
ees, whether they are air traffic con-
trollers, whether they are FAA, wheth-
er they are TSA, whether they are
NOAA, whether they are NIMS—will
also get paid because they, too, are our
friends and our neighbors, and they,
too, are hurting. Again, we need to
make sure we are doing right by all of
those who serve our country, who serve
all of us through the good work they do
through the Agencies.
This has been a harsh and a difficult
time, and it has been particularly pain-
ful for me, coming from a State where
we are feeling the direct impacts of
this partial shutdown, perhaps more so
than any other State out there. I am
told that, per capita, there are more
Federal employees in Alaska who are
directly impacted by this partial shut-
down than in any other State, so I hear
the urgency. It is not just from our
Coast Guard men and women; again, it
is from so many Agencies that have a
presence.
I got a readout just yesterday from
those in the fishing industry who are
concerned that because permits can’t
get issued, because comments can’t be
published in the Federal Register, the
impact to their fisheries and being able
to move forward with the black cod
fishery or to move forward with the pot
cod—they are not going to be able to
do it. So today’s news allows everyone
to breathe a sigh of relief. But I don’t
want them—whether they are fisher-
men or whether they are that Coast
Guard wife—thinking, am I going to be
able to breathe now for only 3 weeks?
What happens after that?
We owe it not only to our Federal
workers, but we also owe it to all of
America to take the anxiety out of this
process.
I have supported my colleague the
Senator from Ohio in his legislation
that would permanently end govern-
ment shutdowns. As an appropriator, I
am not convinced, the way it is draft-
ed, that it is something I am entirely
good with, but I want us to take this
off the table. In fact, I believe it was
the Presiding Officer who used the ter-
minology that a shutdown is like the
chemical warfare agent when it comes
to political weapons.
At the end of the day, these are peo-
ple’s lives we are dealing with. These
are people’s lives we are messing with
when we say that we are going to shut
down the government for this period of
time while we try to advance prior-
ities. We cannot mess with people’s
lives this way.
We have our work cut out for us, and
I believe we will rise to this occasion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.011 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S674 January 25, 2019
We must rise to this occasion. I look
forward to doing that.
I thank the President for his an-
nouncement today. I thank him for
giving us the 3 weeks that we re-
quested. I thank the majority leader
and the minority leader for coming to-
gether to help advance this.
It is going to take all of us—it is
going to take the President; it is going
to take the leadership—working to-
gether.
As a member of the Appropriations
Committee, I look forward to my con-
tinuing role in this, but know that we
owe it to the country. We owe it to the
country to get this right and get it
right quickly.
This is a good start today, and I look
forward to working with my col-
leagues.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I was
just listening and paying close atten-
tion to my colleague from Alaska de-
scribing the uselessness and the misery
march of a government shutdown, par-
ticularly one that has lasted longer
than any one that has occurred over
the history of this country. I couldn’t
agree more, and I associate myself with
her comments, having had many con-
versations, as many of us have, with
our TSA agents and with our Coast
Guard—yes, West Virginia has a Coast
Guard presence; I would like to empha-
size that—with our prison guards and
others who have had just foisted upon
them, through no fault of their own,
some very difficult decisions and sleep-
less nights, I am sure.
So while we want to celebrate, there
is really little cause to celebrate. I
think it is more of a breath of fresh air
or a deep sigh of relief. Probably, in the
minds of the veterans whom I was with
at the Martinsburg Medical Center this
morning, it is a deep breath and: Well,
no kidding. Let’s get back to the busi-
ness of governing and making decisions
and making good decisions for the
country.
I chair the Subcommittee on Home-
land Security in the Senate as part of
the Appropriations Committee. I am
very pleased that the President has
made this announcement that our lead-
ers, both Senator MCCONNELL and Sen-
ator SCHUMER, have come together
with a commonsense, breathable solu-
tion to give us some space to work
through what we call here regular
order. For people listening who don’t
understand what that is, it is what we
should be doing every day, where I sit
down as the chair of the committee,
with Senator TESTER from Montana,
who is the ranking member on the
committee, and other members of the
committee, and we work things out. I
want this, and he wants this. Well,
maybe pick in the middle, or maybe I
will give you this if you give me that.
So I look forward, with the bold lead-
ership of Senator SHELBY and Senator
LEAHY, as chair and ranking member of
the full committee, and the leadership,
certainly, of our leaders, with the
President, to working out a good solu-
tion here.
I firmly believe that border security
is important. That is reflected in the
bill we passed out of our subcommittee
that the Chair and the Senator from
Tennessee both voted on in the full
committee. We had 10 Democrats who
voted for that bill, which had border
security, a pedestrian fence, wall, tech-
nology, and the polar security cutter
for our Coast Guard, which is some-
thing very important to Alaska and
the Arctic and to us as Americans for
our safety, and a lot of very reflective
priorities in there for the rest of the
country.
We can’t lose sight that homeland se-
curity is more than about one struc-
ture or the one placement of a struc-
ture. It is about a full-out array of
ways of looking at protecting our coun-
try internally, in our transportation
sector, in our energy sectors, and in
others.
While it sounds like a steep moun-
tain, I embrace this. I embrace the
ability to play a role and to find a rea-
sonable solution, and we have been
granted until February 15 to work this
out. With that, I have rolled up my
sleeves. I am getting ready to go to
work with many, many others here in
this body and across the way and at the
White House.
To the American people, I agree that
shutdowns are useless. They are pain-
ful. Nobody wins. The big discussion is,
Who is winning here? It is pretty clear
the American people aren’t winning,
and in the end, I don’t think anybody is
winning.
With that, I yield my time, and look
forward to getting to work and to find-
ing the right solution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI). The Senator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I am glad the Senator from West Vir-
ginia is on the floor because if someone
were to ask where do we go from here,
her work is the best example of that.
Let’s stop and think about this just a
minute. The issue is whether we should
include in a plan for border security
some physical barrier. That is the
issue. How do you resolve that issue?
That is what we do.
I remember, I went to see Johnny
Cash when I was Governor of Ten-
nessee, and I didn’t quite know what to
say to him so I said: How many nights
are you on the road?
He said: Oh, about 200.
I said: Why do you do that?
He looked at me and said: That is
what I do.
This is what we do. Our job is not to
take a position or to make a speech.
We could do that at home. We could get
a radio program or a television show.
No one might watch it, but we could
get one. It takes very little courage
and very little skill to take a position
or make a speech, but what the Sen-
ator from West Virginia has shown
that she is able to do is to take issues
of border security and do what we are
supposed to do, which is to put dif-
ferent views together and get a result.
Now, this wasn’t that long ago, what
she just described. It was just last sum-
mer that the full Appropriations Com-
mittee of the Senate, which is about a
third of all of us—almost equally di-
vided, Republicans and Democrats—
considered President Trump’s budget
request for border security. It included
a request that included physical bar-
riers—a wall.
What was the result? If I have my
numbers right, I believe the committee
recommended about $5.7 billion for bor-
der security, including $1.6 billion for a
physical barrier, which is a wall. At
least ten Democrats voted for that.
You didn’t read about that in the after-
noon news as a big problem because we
considered what a comprehensive bor-
der security plan would be for our
southern border under the leadership of
the Senator from West Virginia, and
she responded to the President’s re-
quest.
He is, after all, the President. I have
read the Constitution. He does have to
sign the bill for it to become a law. So
we respected the President’s request,
considered it, and voted for it. That is
where we were on the Senate floor as
late as last summer.
Then the President came along more
recently and said: We have a crisis on
the southern border. We need more
money for border security, and part of
that money ought to include physical
barriers.
That should surprise no one. The last
four Presidents have said the same
thing—President Obama, President
Clinton, President George W. Bush, and
President George H.W. Bush. We think
they were pretty effective Presidents.
They all asked for money to build
physical barriers on the southern bor-
der of the United States—it is 1,954
miles long——those four Presidents
who came before President Trump.
Those Presidents asked for and Con-
gress approved—Democrats and Repub-
licans—654 miles of wall along the
southern border.
This issue has gotten blown way out
of proportion. As the President just
said a few moments ago, he is not ask-
ing for a wall from sea to shining sea,
and what this Congress has shown,
under four Presidents of the United
States, and more recently under the
leadership of the Senator from West
Virginia, is that we can take a Presi-
dent’s request—either a Republican
President or a Democratic President,
in the case of Clinton and Obama—for
border security and come up with a
comprehensive recommendation that
attracts the bipartisan support of U.S.
Senators and make it a law, and that is
what we should do in the next 3 weeks.
Boy Scouts shouldn’t get a merit
badge for telling the truth, and U.S.
Senators and Presidents shouldn’t get
a merit badge for keeping the govern-
ment open. That is what we are sup-
posed to do. But it is good that it is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.012 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S675
January 25, 2019
open, and it is important for the people
to know that we know what to do with
it. We know what to do with it because
we do it all the time.
There are two things wrong with the
last few weeks. One is that the govern-
ment was shut down. As the Senator
from Alaska said, as the Senator from
West Virginia said, and as I have heard
almost every Senator say on both sides
of the aisle, we should never ever shut
down the government. Shutting down
the government should be as off limits
in budget negotiations as chemical
warfare is in real warfare. I should not
be able to say to the Senator from
Alaska: If I don’t get my way, I am
going to shut the government down,
whether it is on Planned Parenthood or
military spending or a road in Alaska
or a road in Tennessee or a coal mine
in West Virginia. We have our strong
opinions, but we don’t say we are going
to take our football and go home. We
should say: We were elected to make
the government work for taxpayers,
not to shut it down, and we know how
to do that. We know how to do that.
The first thing that was wrong with
the last few weeks is we accepted the
idea that shutting down the govern-
ment is an acceptable bargaining chip
in a budget negotiation, and it should
never ever be, and we should resolve
that that should never ever happen. If
this President or the next President or
this Speaker of the House or the next
the Speaker of the House tries to do it,
we should in a bipartisan way say: No,
you can have your strong view, but we
are not going along with your threat to
shut the government down in order to
get your policy goals.
The second thing that was wrong
with it was that we didn’t give the job
to the people whose job it is to work
these things out. For example, the Sen-
ator from West Virginia showed in her
leadership of the Appropriations Home-
land Security Subcommittee that she
knows how, with her committee mem-
bers, to work out differences of opinion
on border security.
Instead, we were having a high dec-
ibel debate back and forth between the
President and the Speaker of the
House. He would say one thing on TV,
and she would come out of her office
and refute it in 5 minutes. That is not
the way you get an agreement. That is
not the way we ever get an agreement.
They should leave that to what we call
the regular order and allow us to have
our discussions.
We began to make progress yesterday
when we did something that we know
how to do, which is to vote. The second
thing that happened is the Republican
leader, Senator MCCONNELL, and the
Democratic leader, Senator SCHUMER,
walked back to Senator MCCONNELL’s
office and they began to talk. And here
we are, less than 24 hours later, with
apparently a result. I commend Sen-
ator MCCONNELL and I commend Sen-
ator SCHUMER for taking this issue,
going back in the room and talking
about it, and getting the Senate back
to the business of doing what it is sup-
posed to do.
I see other Senators on the floor, and
I want them to have a chance to speak.
I thank the Senator from Alaska, who
has kindly presided when I was sup-
posed to be so I would be allowed to
speak.
I am glad the President did today
what he said he would do. The govern-
ment should be open, and we should be
solving the problem. As I said, Boy
Scouts and Girl Scouts should not get
merit badges for telling the truth, and
Senators and Presidents shouldn’t get
it for keeping the government open.
But it is good that it is open, and now
there is a chance for us to work to-
gether.
The Senator from West Virginia has
been one of the leaders in the last few
days, along with the Senators from
Alaska and West Virginia, saying:
Let’s open the government. Let’s go to
work, and let’s take the proposal for
comprehensive border security and
make a result.
It is not that unusual for the Presi-
dent—any President—in the middle of
a year to say: We have an unusual
need. The country needs more money.
It might be a disaster. It might be a
hurricane. It might be a flood. It might
be a war. It might be a crisis on the
southern border. Let’s not get hung up
on this wall talk. Let’s remember that
the previous four Presidents asked for
and we approved the building of 654
miles along the 1,954-mile southern
border of the United States. That is
Democrats and Republicans over 20
years.
Let’s not forget that last summer,
under the leadership of the Senator
from West Virginia, the Senate Appro-
priations Committee considered the
President’s request and approved $5.7
billion for border security, including
$1.6 billion for a physical barrier. Let’s
have the same sort of discussion again
in the next 3 weeks. Let’s let the Sen-
ators and the House Members, whose
job it is to do it, do it.
I am glad to see this happen. I am
glad that when I go back to Tennessee
or fly out from Tennessee, I am not
walking through the TSA and seeing
one of 54,000 TSA workers who have
been working without pay—in our
State, cheerfully, never complaining,
never saying an angry word to me. One
did say he could use some money be-
cause he wasn’t getting his check, and
I appreciated that.
I am glad that is over. It shouldn’t
happen again. Let’s get back to work. I
thank the Senators on the floor—all
three of them—from Alaska, Virginia,
and West Virginia, for their leadership
in getting us where we are today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ALEXANDER). The Senator from Vir-
ginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, let me
first of all echo the comments of my
friend, the Senator from Tennessee. We
will never fully know what was the
proverbial straw that broke the cam-
el’s back, but I do believe that under
the leadership of the Senator from
Alaska 16 of us came to the floor yes-
terday and made these comments, with
Senators on the Republican side say-
ing: Please, let’s reopen the govern-
ment, and Senators on the Democratic
side, like myself, saying: I am open to
increasing the dollar amount on border
security.
After the Presiding Officer’s com-
ments, I rise to welcome the news that
sanity has prevailed—at least tempo-
rarily. After 35 painful days, we are fi-
nally poised to reopen the government
and pay our hard-working Federal em-
ployees. It is not a moment too soon
because under normal circumstances,
today is supposed to be a Federal pay-
day, but this morning, thousands of
Federal employees went to work one
more day knowing full well they would
not be getting the paychecks they
earned. Thousands more have been fur-
loughed, waiting for the President and
my colleagues to come to their senses
to let us reopen the government.
For the last 35 days, 800,000 Federal
workers have been held hostage
through no fault of their own. Frankly,
that is just scratching the surface of
this destructive shutdown. That num-
ber of 800,000 doesn’t include the hun-
dreds of thousands of Federal contrac-
tors who are not getting paid.
I know I have talked to my friend the
Senator from Alaska and appealed to
the common sense and good sense of
the Presiding Officer. We have some
legislation that may not be perfect but
would look at trying to make at least
partially whole those low-paid Federal
contractors—folks under $50,000—who,
if we don’t find a way to take care of
them, will come out of this—more than
1 month of their annual salary—with
nothing at all to show for it.
We also know—and the Senator from
Alaska raised this issue with me—that
even if we were to move toward low-
salaried contractors, the solution that
we announced today and that hopefully
will be signed later today really will do
nothing to take care of the small busi-
nesses whose customers were fur-
loughed or working without pay.
I am thinking about the Senator
from Alaska, who had the powerful pic-
ture on the floor of the brewery in Ko-
diak, AK. I copied her efforts and went
to Port City Brewery in Alexandria—I
believe it was yesterday—where not
only were they down dramatically in
terms of customers, but they had five
new brews they were trying to bring to
market, and none of those were ap-
proved.
The truth is, the damage to those
folks in the private sector is done, and
I am not sure there is much we can do
to rectify it. Candidly, thinking about
here locally, there is no way we can
undo the harm to the food truck own-
ers—some have had their food trucks
repossessed—who sit outside the
Smithsonian waiting for the tourists to
come. Those losses are permanent, as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.014 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S676 January 25, 2019
they are in my State and the Presiding
Officer’s State for those restaurants
and campgrounds that are outside the
Great Smoky Mountains or outside the
Shenandoah Valley. As a matter of
fact, there is no way we are going to be
able to make whole the contractor who
told me he was closing his doors and
laying off 72 workers because he just
couldn’t meet the payroll during the
shutdown.
Frankly, it is too late for the Presi-
dent or any of us to help those folks.
The only thing we can do now is to end
the shutdown, get the Federal workers
and contractors back to work, and try
our darnedest to make sure this never
happens again.
We also need to make sure those
folks get backpay. Again, I would espe-
cially urge that we take a hard look at
making sure those low-wage contrac-
tors, who are suffering so badly right
now, get an opportunity to get their
backpay as well. I am cosponsoring leg-
islation sponsored by the Senator from
Minnesota, and I hope all my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle will
look at that legislation.
By reopening the government tempo-
rarily, we now finally have the oppor-
tunity to take a timeout and give both
parties the space to negotiate a com-
promise. We are clearly not there yet,
but there is room for common ground.
Over the weekend, the President pro-
posed additional funding for screening
vehicles and cargo coming across the
border at points of entry. The DEA
says this is how the majority of illegal
drugs come into our country. It is
something we can work on together. If
the White House wants to seriously dis-
cuss providing real, long-term security
for Dreamers and TPS recipients, let’s
have that conversation as well. I think
we can do it, but it will take time. In
the meantime, let’s make sure the
President signs today the legislation
that will allow our Federal employees
and contractors to get back to work.
Before I close, I want to take a mo-
ment for self-reflection on what has
happened over the last 35 days.
In many ways, we are right back to
where we were in December, right back
to where we were when this body near-
ly unanimously passed legislation that
would have prevented this stupid crisis.
For 35 days, this body has refused to
fill its role as a part and coequal
branch of government. We can’t let
that happen again.
I hope the White House will take
some lessons from this crisis as well.
They can start by realizing that no one
wins a shutdown. If you shut down the
government, the only thing we know
for a fact is that the American people
lose. I hope the President will also re-
alize that you need to empower those
around you to help make a deal. The
Vice President came to the Senate
with a deal in mid-December. I don’t
think he even left Capitol Hill before
the President basically took back the
Vice President’s deal. Senator GRAHAM
proposed almost exactly this deal that
we came to 3 weeks ago, but unfortu-
nately, again, the President cut off his
good friend at that point.
It is my hope that in the coming
weeks, we can have a good-faith nego-
tiation where both sides have an oppor-
tunity to come out ahead. Imagine
that—a win-win proposition coming
out of the Halls of Congress. But to do
that, we have to have enough of the
stunts and the political tit-for-tat that
we have seen over the past few weeks.
In a moment of optimism, if there is
anything good that can come from this
shutdown, let’s make it the last time
that a President or a Congress uses
shutting down the government as a ne-
gotiating tactic.
I have legislation, and it took some
hard work to come up with the acro-
nym, but the legislation is called the
Stop STUPIDITY Act. That will make
sure that Congress and the White
House are the only ones who suffer
when the Congress and the White
House can’t come to a funding agree-
ment. Maybe the particulars of that
legislation can change, or maybe even
responsible Members like the Presiding
Officer would think we don’t need to
put into law something called the Stop
the STUPIDITY Act, so I am open to
changing the name. But the final lan-
guage in any deal that comes out 3
weeks from now should put strong pro-
visions and strong penalties in place to
prevent this tactic from being used by
either party or any White House or
Congress in the future.
In my mind, perhaps the best and
easiest way to do that would be—and I
know there is Republican legislation
on this—to continue to fund govern-
ment. In my idea, it would say that the
only people who would actually be the
victims of a shutdown going forward
would be the Congress and our staff
and the White House and its staff. A
little bit of common sense tells me
that we wouldn’t be here 35 days into
this shutdown if all our staff were ex-
periencing the same kind of shortfall
and economic distress that 800,000 of
our fellow Federal workers experi-
enced.
The truth is, our Federal workers
need to get those paychecks. The truth
is, our country can’t afford another
self-inflicted disaster. Let’s go ahead
and get that CR passed. Let’s go ahead
and sit down and negotiate in good
faith on border security. Most impor-
tantly, let’s make sure we are never
back in this circumstance again.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, no mat-
ter how intractable something might
seem, the Senate is the Senate, and we
should be the conscience of the Nation,
and we can work things out.
One of my closest friends in this body
is the distinguished senior Senator
from Alabama, Mr. SHELBY. He and I
were talking just a couple of minutes
ago. We know that we can get these
things done. The Senate can be the
conscience of the Nation. There are 100
men and women of both parties who
are here because they love this coun-
try, and they want it to be better.
Now let’s just sit down and do our
work. Senator SHELBY and I got every
single appropriations bill last year
through our committee, virtually
unanimously in most cases. It worked.
We proved it could work. It hadn’t been
done for years. We proved it could be
done.
We did not do it with press con-
ferences. We did not do it with gim-
micks. We did not do it with
histrionics. We did it with hard work,
sometimes late into the night.
I say that in light of what we have
seen during the Trump shutdown. For
35 days, President Trump robbed hun-
dreds of thousands of American fami-
lies of their paychecks and forced dedi-
cated public servants—professionals—
to turn to food banks and unemploy-
ment benefits to feed and support their
families.
For 35 days, President Trump denied
millions of taxpaying Americans access
to public services. For 35 days, Presi-
dent Trump inflicted pain on the Amer-
ican people.
Anyone who has taken the time for
the briefing knows it has compromised
our national security. And for what?
The rest of the world looks at us and
sees us as being weak. Our enemies
have been able to exploit the fact that
we have had this shutdown. And for
what?
All of this pain and suffering is going
to end now, right where it began.
On December 19 of last year, the Sen-
ate passed a bill by voice vote to fund
the government to February 8. Vir-
tually every Republican and every
Democrat supported it, and it is nearly
what the President has proposed today.
We in the Senate did that back on De-
cember 19. The President was going to
support it. He was then criticized by
some in the conservative media, and he
thought he had to break his word and
precipitate this national crisis.
Dozens of Vermonters have contacted
my office to share the pain the Trump
shutdown inflicted on their lives.
Northfield, VT, is one of our prettiest
towns. It is not far from where I was
born. A number of my ancestors settled
in that area.
A Vermont family there found they
could not complete their U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture 502 direct home
loan, and that closed the door on the
American dream of owning a home,
something so many Vermonters dream
of.
A small business owner in
Brattleboro, who employs Vermonters
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.016 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S677
January 25, 2019
and shows entrepreneurship is alive
and well in our small State, wrote my
office. What happened? He could not
get the Department of Agriculture—be-
cause they were not there—to approve
the packaging on their new products,
and it crippled their growth in a com-
petitive market.
A Vermonter in the Coast Guard was
worried about how he and his ship-
mates would make ends meet.
These are real people who have suf-
fered real consequences, and for what?
For what?
The shutdown was the American cri-
sis. It was our national emergency—
not the southern border, where appre-
hensions have dropped 75 percent since
2000, and the majority of the people ap-
prehended at our borders today are
families—women and children feeling
violence in their own countries.
In this great country, which we are
all proud to serve, the Trump shutdown
should never have happened, and it
never should have dragged on for 35
days.
I hope the President is learning that
Congress is a coequal branch of govern-
ment. The American people are not
pawns to be played with for political
gain.
I told Chairman SHELBY that I will
continue my bipartisan work with him
to make responsible investments in the
American people and border security,
and I pray that President Trump does
not repeat this national embarrass-
ment.
I am proud to be an American. I am
proud to be a U.S. Senator in a body
that should be the conscience of the
Nation. But I see how people around
the world are laughing at our country
when the most powerful—the most
powerful—Nation on Earth is being
crippled because of a whim and a tweet.
That is not the America I know and
love. We are a great country. Only we
can make it less great.
The shutdown has damaged us. It has
damaged us internally. It has damaged
our security. It has damaged our rep-
utation around the rest of the world.
So I hope we will promptly vote to
reopen the government and end this
national nightmare. I am prepared to
work. As dean of the Senate, as Vice
Chairman of the Appropriations Com-
mittee, I am willing to work with my
colleagues, both Democrats and Repub-
licans, to make sure this foolish esca-
pade doesn’t happen again.
I see other Senators on the floor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, today is a
bittersweet day. I am assuming we are
going to vote along with this deal—as I
am—to reopen this government, to end
the 35-day-old hostage crisis, and that
truly is the best way to describe it.
It is a bittersweet day. It is sweet be-
cause our dedicated and committed
Federal workers and contractors will
be going back to work. It is bitter be-
cause, as I think everyone in this body
who has spoken today has said, it
should never have happened. I believe
we have an obligation to those folks to
do a better job, to make it even sweet-
er.
Last week, Congress passed the Gov-
ernment Employee Fair Treatment Act
of 2019, which would require that all
impacted Federal employees receive
compensation for wages lost during the
government shutdown—35 days’ worth
of government wages paid back.
While that is an important step, the
shutdown has forced many of our Fed-
eral workers to incur additional costs
associated with loans, late bill pay-
ments, and other effects of their miss-
ing paychecks—paychecks they de-
pended on for their daily living.
That is why today, along with Sen-
ators BALDWIN, CARDIN, HIRONO, VAN
HOLLEN, KAINE, KLOBUCHAR, SHAHEEN,
WARNER, and WYDEN, I have introduced
the Back Pay Fairness Act. If the Fed-
eral Government can charge you inter-
est for being late on your taxes, then
we should be paying interest to those
employees from whom we have bor-
rowed hard-earned dollars over the last
35 days. That is only fair.
I am requesting in this bill that all
interest be paid to the Federal workers
whose paychecks were withheld. The
more than 5,500 Federal workers in
Alabama did not ask for this shutdown
and should not be punished for it. It is
only fair that the government pay
them back with interest for putting
them out of work indefinitely or forc-
ing them to work without pay.
Federal law often recognizes the im-
portance of timely payments when it
benefits the Federal Government.
When it is the government’s money, we
demand that people pay on time. For
example, if you don’t pay your taxes on
time, you can count on a notice letter
from the Internal Revenue Service—at
least when they are open—demanding
that you pay interest, interest for the
lateness of your payments. It doesn’t
matter when it is. If you go past a cer-
tain date, they tack on a penalty on
top of that—not just interest.
Well, when the Federal Government
owes its Federal workers money, it is
only reasonable, responsible, and fair
that interest accrues as well. The in-
terest rate in this legislation would be
equivalent to the rate that Federal
Agencies must pay vendors when they
are late. The rate, known as the Treas-
ury prompt payment rate, is currently
3.625 percent.
Again, it is only fair. As David Cox,
the American Federation of Govern-
ment Employees’ National President
said:
Federal workers are experiencing serious
financial hardship from the shutdown. When
it ends, employees will not only have to pay
more than a month’s worth of overdue bills,
they will also have to pay late fees and pen-
alties, overdraft fees and interest charges.
The AFGE supports the Back Pay
Fairness Act with interest. Again, it is
only the right thing to do.
This shutdown, which has lasted for
35 days, could have been avoided. The
deal we got today is going to reopen
the government through February 15,
and it will go to a conference. We are
going to do what the Presiding Officer
said to do the other day: Do what we
do. I heard his remarks a few minutes
ago, and I absolutely agree with them.
This government functions best when
this body does what the Founders of
the Constitution said we should do: Go
to regular order; go to conference.
As Senator BENNET said on the floor
yesterday, our Founders contemplated
the fact that we are going to have dis-
agreements. That is why we have 100
people here. That is why there are 435.
That is why there are nine members of
the Supreme Court. We are going to
have disagreements, but we don’t have
to shut down the government over
those disagreements, especially when
they are political disagreements and
not truly substantive disagreements.
This shutdown has had many costs,
some that we will never be able to
quantify. Some of the losses from the
President’s misguided shutdown we
just can’t put a cost on, and it is unfor-
tunate that a while back, back in De-
cember, the President of the United
States said that he wanted to shut
down this government; he would own
this shutdown.
It is unfortunate that we had 35 days
for which he really didn’t take that re-
sponsibility, and he still didn’t do it
today. But the fact is, he could have
avoided it.
We have more than a million con-
tractors. Senator WARNER and others
were talking about the contractors
that have millions of dollars—tens of
millions of dollars—of contracts with
the Federal Government, many of
those in my State of Alabama.
I was in Huntsville, AL, today for the
groundbreaking of a Blue Origin plant
that is going to build the engines for
some of the new, manned spacecraft
that the United States will send into
orbit. At a time when we were shutting
down the U.S. Government, China was
putting a spacecraft on the dark side of
the Moon. We should be so embarrassed
about that. NASA is such an important
part of Alabama and our history in this
country for what we can accomplish
and for what we can do that is good—
the leaders in the country—and while
we were shut down and those poor
NASA employees laid off and the con-
tractors dealing with NASA, China—
China—was jumping ahead.
Well, I was so proud today when we
started and we broke ground, because
we are going to reclaim that right. We
are going to get this government open,
and we are going to reclaim America’s
role in space and technology and the
human imagination that will take us
beyond our borders here, beyond where
we are.
I visited a number of folks in Hunts-
ville this past weekend and heard first-
hand their stories of families, and it
was heartbreaking. Members of our
Coast Guard missed paychecks. For the
first time in our Nation’s history,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.018 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S678 January 25, 2019
members of our Armed Forces were not
paid due to a government shutdown.
The Coast Guard has boats next to the
Navy in places all around the world.
The Coast Guard defends this country
just like the Army, the Navy, the Air
Force, the Marines, the Merchant Ma-
rines; yet they didn’t get paid. They
also do other work. They do wonderful
work in disaster relief. They do won-
derful work around the country in res-
cue operations.
Members of the Coast Guard missed
their paychecks, and I talked to mem-
bers of the Coast Guard to hear their
stories about how their men and
women were suffering. We should be
ashamed of that.
It is not just the Coast Guard. Yes-
terday I took five dozen doughnuts to
the TSA workers at the airport in Bir-
mingham. You would have thought it
was Christmas, they were so happy. In
airports yesterday and today, those
TSA agents say: Thank you for doing
what you can do. We are here. We are
working. That is why they deserve not
only their paychecks, but they deserve
it with interest.
The S&P estimated the economic
cost of this shutdown was $7.1 billion.
We have been arguing over 5.7, and it
has already cost this country 7.1.
Bloomberg said businesses with con-
tractors tied to the Federal Govern-
ment would lose a cumulative $200 mil-
lion a day. The chamber of commerce
says small government contractors
have lost more than $2.3 billion in rev-
enue so far. The administration has ad-
mitted economic growth this quarter
will likely be zero because of the shut-
down.
Payments to farmers hurt by the
President’s tariffs were delayed be-
cause the Department of Agriculture
was closed. Now think about that.
Farmers in Alabama and elsewhere got
a double whammy. They got hurt be-
cause of the tariffs and the fact that
China started retaliating and dried up
their markets, and soybean farmers
couldn’t send their crops anywhere. So
the President, in something I sup-
ported, even though it was a bandaid,
decided they would give these farmers
$12 billion in relief. Farmers don’t like
bailouts. These are hard-working, con-
servative folks who don’t like bailouts.
They don’t want handouts; they want-
ed their markets back. Then, with this
shutdown, half of that money couldn’t
be disbursed. At a time when those
farmers were trying to get their loans
in order and were trying to get ready
for spring planting, they couldn’t get
any money from the Department of Ag-
riculture. That is shameful. That is
shameful.
The tariff exclusion request for busi-
nesses has not been processed, all the
while our Commerce Secretary was
saying he just couldn’t understand why
people had to go to food banks. He
should be ashamed. We should all be
ashamed that a representative of the
U.S. Government would say such a
thing, when it was the administration
that caused the shutdown.
When the economy slows and there is
less money to spend in our commu-
nities, hiring slows or stops and wages
can decline, leaving our communities
even more vulnerable. That is some-
thing that hasn’t been talked about
enough here; that is, in the last 35
days, the security of the United States,
not just on the southern border but the
entire United States has been at risk
because of this government shutdown—
cyber security threats from Russia,
China, North Korea, you name it.
While we may have a crisis on the bor-
der—and there are many who might
dispute that it is a crisis on our south-
ern border as opposed to chaos. Every-
one understands there is chaos. Every-
one understands our border is not as se-
cure as it should be. There are things
we can do to secure that border, and
they should be done to secure that bor-
der.
Everybody—there is no one in this
body who says they are for open bor-
ders. Last year, when the President
nominated an individual who used to
work with Customs and Border Patrol
to be head of ICE, I asked him, in his
entire career, has he ever heard of any-
one who was in the public sector who
was for open borders. He said: No, sir.
It was an important question because
we hear so much, and we see so many
allegations coming from the other side
that we are all for open borders. That
is not true. We want to make sure we
have secure borders.
Let me tell you something, folks. I
also want to have a heart. I want to
make sure the United States is the
moral leader of the world. There are
people coming across, and they are
fleeing violence, destruction, and their
families are being put in danger in
their home countries. We at least can
try to figure out a way to help them;
that we don’t gas children on the bor-
der; that we don’t separate families
and put little children in jail; and that
we don’t charge people $11 for a tube of
toothpaste in what amounts to a pri-
vate prison; that we at least can recog-
nize that we have an element of hu-
manity about us; that when people flee
and seek refuge in the United States of
America, they do so for a reason. It is
because we don’t have to make this
America great again. We are great.
That is why they are coming here, to
get away. We have to make sure we un-
derstand and recognize that.
What I want to see is that good-faith
effort. What I have said from the very
beginning is, that good faith the Presi-
dent talked about today, I want to
make sure—I wanted to open this gov-
ernment in December. We are doing
today essentially what this body did on
December 19—35 days ago, 37 days ago.
We voted unanimously to keep this
government open and let people talk
about the border security; let folks
talk about whether we have a threat of
a national security emergency. That is
what we do, as Senator ALEXANDER
said on the floor earlier. I agree with
him, and I agree with Senator MUR-
KOWSKI and Senator WARNER and all
those who spoke before me whom I
heard.
Senator ALEXANDER said that two
things went wrong in December; one,
we should never have a shutdown as an
option. Our Federal workers should
never be held hostage. Yes, people have
said this is a hostage crisis because
that is what it was. Those poor workers
have been held hostage, and now we
have a threat again. If we don’t do
something in 3 weeks, they will do it
again. The sad thing is, unlike a hos-
tage crisis that you might see on tele-
vision on the news or on television in
TV shows, it is the same hostages
every time. Every time this govern-
ment shuts down, it is the same hos-
tages who are taken, and we cannot let
that happen.
Senator ALEXANDER said the other
thing that we didn’t do is we didn’t do
what we were supposed to do. We didn’t
have that regular order. We saw all of
the political fights play out on TV be-
tween this side or the other side, and
we didn’t get back to what this body
does best, why I came to this body, why
I am so proud to be a part of this body,
why I am so proud to be here with Sen-
ator PATRICK LEAHY, who was in the
U.S. Senate when I was just a staffer
for Senator Heflin. We need to be doing
those things for the American people
and for the people in my State. That is
what we need to be doing.
As I listened to the President today,
I appreciated the fact that he is signing
this bill that I think will pass both
Houses. I feel confident it will. As I lis-
tened to him today, I am thinking to
myself: Mr. President, you talk about
good faith, and you want people to
have good-faith dialogue. They will in
this body, but good faith is a two-way
street—a two-way street. It is not just
one side or the other, but it is a two-
way street. I worry sometimes that the
President of the United States doesn’t
always do that.
We saw last year, when we had a bill
for $25 billion that he decided he didn’t
like, after he initially said it was one
of the areas he wanted to do. We saw it
in December, when this body came to
the floor and passed unanimously a
measure to keep the government open,
that I know would not have come to
this floor by Senator MCCONNELL had
the President not indicated he would
sign it and changed in 24 hours. So
good faith, Mr. President, is a two-way
street.
I am willing to do that. I have always
said that. I heard a lot of people on
both sides of this aisle who are ready,
willing, and able to try to do the things
we need to do to secure our borders,
but we have to have good faith coming
out of the administration as well.
We have to make sure the adminis-
tration takes care of those families
who are trying to get away; that we
will look to maybe try to provide some
help to those countries so they can
stem the tide of that violence and try
to do some things to move these asy-
lum seekers along and not just build
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.019 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S679
January 25, 2019
walls to stop them. Let’s be humani-
tarians as well as security agents. We
can do that. That is not inconsistent
with the American way. That is not in-
consistent at all.
I appreciate the time on the floor
today. I urge all my colleagues to vote
for this compromise to open this gov-
ernment back up. Importantly, I urge
my colleagues and in the House—let’s
not give these Federal workers just
their backpay, as we passed before,
let’s do what is right. If we mean what
we say about how we appreciate our
Federal workers, if we mean what we
say when we call and say how patriotic
they are, let’s do to them what the
government would do otherwise. Let’s
give them the interest on these 35 days
of backpay. Then we will truly fulfill
our obligations as best we can.
Importantly, let’s not let this happen
again. For God’s sake, do our duty.
Let’s not let this happen again in 3
weeks and go through this process once
more. Let’s get to work. Let’s knuckle
down. Let’s secure the borders, but
let’s also let this crisis within our bor-
ders that has been created over the last
35 days end forever. Let that crisis go
away and never come back.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The majority leader is rec-
ognized.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING DEIDRE ‘‘DEE
DEE’’ MENGEDOHT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, it is
my sad duty today to pay tribute to a
fallen Kentucky hero, Louisville Metro
Police Department Detective Deidre
Mengedoht. Dee Dee, as her friends
called her, was tragically killed in the
line of duty on Christmas Eve. Her
family and our community are left to
mourn this painful loss and to recog-
nize her incredible service to Louis-
ville.
A graduate of Eastern High School
and the University of Louisville, Detec-
tive Mengedoht chose to dedicate her
life to the service of her community. In
2011, she joined the LMPD’s training
academy. Since the day she took her
oath, Detective Mengedoht proved her-
self worthy of the trust placed in her.
With real love for the community
under her protection, she worked as a
beat officer before earning the rank of
detective.
For 7 and a half years, Detective
Mengedoht served the department and
the people of Louisville. She quickly
gained the respect of her colleagues,
who recognized a passion for law en-
forcement and for community engage-
ment. According to those who had the
privilege to know her, Detective
Mengedoht displayed the attributes of
a true public servant. Police Chief
Steve Conrad said she ‘‘would fight
tirelessly to seek justice for victims
whose cases she was investigating.’’ In
her important work for the city of Lou-
isville, Detective Mengedoht would al-
ways give more of herself than was
asked.
While families throughout Kentucky
and the Nation celebrated Christmas
Eve, Detective Mengedoht was at her
post, protecting the community. That
afternoon, she conducted a traffic stop,
a routine procedure for any member of
law enforcement. Tragedy struck with-
out warning as a semi-truck hit her po-
lice cruiser. Detective Mengedoht was
killed at the scene,
The heartbreaking incident left the
community shaken. The LMPD lost a
critical member of its force, and Detec-
tive Mengedoht’s family—especially
her 9-year-old son, Preston, will never
be the same. Almost immediately, ex-
pressions of condolences and support
poured into the city. Downtown, the
city hall clock shone with a blue light,
in honor of the incredible sacrifice our
men and women of law enforcement un-
dertake each and every day to protect
the public. The Louisville Metro Police
Foundation also established a fund in
Detective Mengedoht’s name to sup-
port her family.
At a funeral service filled with trib-
utes to her character, bravery, and in-
tegrity, the Kentucky State Police vol-
unteered to take over the shifts of her
colleagues so they could attend. More
than 3,000 law enforcement officers
traveled from around the Common-
wealth and the Nation to join the
LMPD in saluting Detective
Mengedoht. Even in the rain, hundreds
of Kentuckians lined the streets to pay
their respects.
To Detective Mengedoht’s family, in-
cluding her brothers and sisters at the
LMPD and her parents, her sister, and
Preston, I would like to extend my sin-
cere condolences. Her sacrifice bestows
great honor onto all those who wear
the LMPD uniform. During this dif-
ficult time, Elaine and I hope that the
memories of Detective Mengedoht’s life
and her selfless service can provide
much-needed comfort. It is my privi-
lege to remember Detective Deidre
Mengedoht’s exemplary service to the
people of Louisville, and I ask that my
Senate colleagues join me in honoring
this Kentucky hero.
f
TRIBUTE TO CHAD SCHULKEN
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, today,
we say farewell to a member of our
Senate family: Chad Schulken. For
more than 16 years, Chad has served
the U.S. Senate as a professional staff
member and, most recently, clerk on
the Appropriations Committee.
He started his career on the com-
mittee working for Senator Byrd in
2003 as staff of the Subcommittee on
Commerce, Justice, State, and Judici-
ary. He specialized in budgetary and
policy matters affecting the Depart-
ment of Justice and the Federal judici-
ary, including the FBI, DEA, ATF, and
the U.S. Marshall Service. Two years
later, when the Appropriation Com-
mittee reorganized, he joined a newly
formed subcommittee responsible for
Military Construction and Veterans Af-
fairs matters. As the lead staff han-
dling the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, Arlington National Cemetery,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans
Claims, the American Battle Monu-
ments Commission, and the Armed
Forces Retirement Home, Chad was
charged with developing, managing,
and negotiating the policy and funding
priorities for the VA. Ultimately, it
was his job to make sure that Congress
kept its promise to the men, women,
and the families who have served our
country.
Chad has forgotten more about the
resource and management needs of the
VA than most anyone working in gov-
ernment will ever know, so no one was
surprised when he was promoted to be
the subcommittee’s clerk in 2017. As
the lead Democratic staffer, Chad ne-
gotiated and helped develop the Mili-
tary Construction and Veterans Affairs
appropriations bill. He helped me in my
role as the subcommittee’s ranking
member. He worked with Republican
staff, stewarding the interests of all
Democratic Senate offices. He managed
the bill across the Senate floor and ne-
gotiated a final conference agreement
with the House.
Chad has become one of the Senate’s
foremost experts on budgetary policy
and appropriations law. His mastery of
Senate rules and procedure have made
him a formidable legislative tactician
and negotiator. His commitment to his
work—to the unique collaborative
process that fulfills the Congress’s con-
stitutional duty to appropriate tax-
payer dollars—is clear in the many
weekends and holidays he missed with
family and friends to be here to nego-
tiate appropriations bills. It is no won-
der he left an impression on many
Members, including those he served di-
rectly: Senators Byrd, Inouye, Mikul-
ski, LEAHY, Hollings, FEINSTEIN, JOHN-
SON, REED, TESTER, and myself.
For his professionalism and commit-
ment to our country and the people
who have served in our military, we
owe a great deal to Chad for his service
in the U.S. Senate. We thank him and
wish him well as he embarks on a new
adventure, one we hope will give him
more time with his family: his wife
Jessica; three daughters Abi, Bella, and
Hundley; and his son Griffin. From all
of us in our Senate family, I extend a
sincere thank you to Chad and his fam-
ily.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.021 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S680 January 25, 2019
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. COONS, Mr. CRAMER,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. TESTER, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. MERKLEY, and
Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 227. A bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to review, revise, and develop law en-
forcement and justice protocols appropriate
to address missing and murdered Indians,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 228. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to restructure the pay-
ment adjustment for non-emergency ESRD
ambulance transports under the Medicare
program; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. WARREN,
and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 229. A bill to provide advance appropria-
tions authority for certain accounts of the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of In-
dian Education of the Department of the In-
terior and the Indian Health Service of the
Department of Health and Human Services,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Budget.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 230. A bill to require a report on foreign
nationals who flee from the United States
while awaiting trial or sentencing for a
criminal offense committed in the United
States, to establish a list of countries who
have assisted or facilitated with such depar-
tures, to penalize parties connected to such
departures, and to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to prohibit the exclusion
from gross income from certain investments
made by foreign governments who are identi-
fied on such list; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 231. A bill to express the sense of Con-
gress regarding the likely involvement of the
Government of Saudi Arabia in assisting no
fewer than two Saudi nationals to avoid
criminal prosecution in the United States,
and to require the Secretary of State to sub-
mit a report to Congress that describes such
involvement, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S.J. Res. 6. A joint resolution removing the
deadline for the ratification of the equal
rights amendment; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. KING, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
BENNET, Mrs. MURRAY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. STABE-
NOW, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. Res. 29. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of a ‘‘Women’s Health
Research Day’’; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. Res. 30. A resolution condemning efforts
to undermine democracy in Hungary and
urging President Trump to defend the uni-
versal human rights and democratic norms
under attack by the Orban government; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
TOOMEY):
S. Res. 31. A resolution honoring the life of
Harris L. Wofford, Jr.; considered and agreed
to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 21
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) and the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) were added as cosponsors
of S. 21, a bill making continuing ap-
propriations for Coast Guard pay in the
event an appropriations act expires
prior to the enactment of a new appro-
priations act.
S. 61
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 61, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for
the personal importation of safe and af-
fordable drugs from approved phar-
macies in Canada.
S. 69
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 69, a bill to allow reci-
procity for the carrying of certain con-
cealed firearms.
S. 72
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN), the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) and the Sen-
ator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 72, a bill to
suspend the enforcement of certain
civil liabilities of Federal employees
and contractors during a lapse in ap-
propriations, and for other purposes.
S. 104
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 104, a bill to amend title
31, United States Code, to provide for
automatic continuing resolutions.
S. 113
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
113, a bill to appropriate funds for pay
and allowances of excepted Federal em-
ployees, and for other purposes.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 162, a bill to provide back pay
to low-wage contractor employees, and
for other purposes.
S. 165
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Michi-
gan (Mr. PETERS), the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER)
and the Senator from New Hampshire
(Ms. HASSAN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 165, a bill to amend chapter 85 of
title 5, United States Code, to clarify
that Federal employees excepted from
a furlough are eligible for unemploy-
ment compensation.
S. 197
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
197, a bill to provide for the confiden-
tiality of information submitted in re-
quests for deferred action under the de-
ferred action for childhood arrivals
program, and for other purposes.
S. 198
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 198, a bill to provide for con-
tinuing appropriations in the event of a
lapse in appropriations under the nor-
mal appropriations process, other than
for the legislative branch and the Exec-
utive Office of the President.
S. 205
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the Sen-
ator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN), the Senator from Michigan (Ms.
STABENOW), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY), the
Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST) and the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 205, a
bill to amend title XIX of the Social
Security Act to prevent the
misclassification of drugs for purposes
of the Medicaid drug rebate program.
S. 222
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 222, a bill to amend sec-
tion 1341 of title 31, United States
Code, to require payment of interest on
back pay for employees affected by a
lapse in appropriations.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of S.J.
Res. 1, a joint resolution proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States relative to limiting the
number of terms that a Member of Con-
gress may serve.
AMENDMENT NO. 53
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 53 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 268, a bill making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.004 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S681
January 25, 2019
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and
Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 230. A bill to require a report on
foreign nationals who flee from the
United States while awaiting trial or
sentencing for a criminal offense com-
mitted in the United States, to estab-
lish a list of countries who have as-
sisted or facilitated with such depar-
tures, to penalize parties connected to
such departures, and to amend the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 to prohibit
the exclusion from gross income from
certain investments made by foreign
governments who are identified on
such list; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
am introducing the Preserving Amer-
ican Justice Act to ensure that foreign
governments face serious consequences
if they assist their citizens to escape
legal accountability in the United
States.
Recently, Oregon’s largest news-
paper, The Oregonian, uncovered that
five Saudi nationals with criminal
charges departed the Nation before fac-
ing justice. These men were arrested
for serious crimes including vehicular
murder of an innocent teenager, sexual
assault, rape, and child pornography.
According to news reports, U.S. gov-
ernment officials believe the Saudi
government helped these five men with
actions ranging from posting bail to fa-
cilitating their escape from the United
States. These reports claiming the
Saudi government is whisking away
criminals facing justice in Oregon show
a shocking disdain for our Nation’s
criminal justice system. Given the dis-
turbing similarities in these five cases,
a thorough investigation is essential to
better understand the involvement of
the Saudi government.
When anyone commits a crime in the
United States, they must be held ac-
countable. The Trump administration
has failed to explain what, if anything,
it is doing to ensure these men face
American justice. That failure is com-
pletely unacceptable. Foreign govern-
ments cannot disregard our laws and
abuse diplomatic privileges by helping
criminals escape. No one is above the
law, and I am committed to making
sure the Saudi government under-
stands that it cannot behave this way
here in Oregon or anywhere in the
United States.
The legislation I introduced today
would direct the Department of Justice
to investigate these five cases and
bring to light the involvement of the
Saudi government. If the Department
of Justice concludes that the Saudi
government was involved, then my bill
would bar Saudi Arabia’s leaders from
the United States until their govern-
ment returns the suspects who have
fled. The legislation would also create
a major tax penalty on governments
and sovereign wealth funds for any
country that help its citizens escape
American justice. More broadly, my
legislation would help Americans un-
derstand how widespread this practice
is, direct the Department of Justice to
maintain a list of any foreign govern-
ments that help their citizens evade
American justice, and create tough
consequences for those governments
and their leaders.
I believe that my colleagues who talk
about ‘‘putting America First’’ would
agree that foreign governments cannot
undermine American laws. I’m all for
doing more to protecting Americans
from real threats and ensuring that the
victims of these crimes get the justice
they deserve in an American court of
law. So I urge my colleagues to join me
in supporting measures that would
hold foreign governments accountable.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 29—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF A ‘‘WOMEN’S
HEALTH RESEARCH DAY’’
Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
KING, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. BENNET,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. STABENOW, and Ms. ROSEN)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 29
Whereas women constitute 50.8 percent of
people in the United States;
Whereas women of different races,
ethnicities, ages, and socioeconomic status
experience many diseases and disorders dif-
ferently than men experience those diseases
and disorders;
Whereas those different experiences are re-
flected in the incidence, prevalence,
symptomology, and severity of the disease or
disorder;
Whereas the risks and benefits of medical
therapies vary based on the race, ethnicity,
age, and socioeconomic status of a woman;
Whereas women and men have funda-
mental biological differences;
Whereas, for many years, women of dif-
ferent races, ethnicities, ages, and socio-
economic status were underrepresented in
biomedical and clinical research;
Whereas the improvement of the health of
women relies on sex- and gender-based bio-
medical and clinical research;
Whereas the promise of individualized
medicine cannot be realized without sex- and
gender-based parity in research;
Whereas, on January 25, 2016, the National
Institutes of Health implemented a policy
requiring federally funded investigators to
consider sex as a biological variable in pre-
clinical research; and
Whereas that policy ushered in a new era
of inclusivity and parity in research relating
to the health of women: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, that the Senate—
(1) expresses support for the designation of
a ‘‘Women’s Health Research Day’’; and
(2) supports efforts—
(A) to recognize the importance of bio-
medical and clinical research to the health
and well-being of women;
(B) to increase awareness of the value of
sex- and gender-based biomedical research;
and
(C) to encourage individuals, including re-
searchers and patients, to advocate on behalf
of sex- and gender-inclusive research for
women of different races, ethnicities, ages,
and socioeconomic status.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 30—CON-
DEMNING EFFORTS TO UNDER-
MINE DEMOCRACY IN HUNGARY
AND URGING PRESIDENT TRUMP
TO DEFEND THE UNIVERSAL
HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMO-
CRATIC NORMS UNDER ATTACK
BY THE ORBAN GOVERNMENT
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, and Mr. MURPHY) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 30
Whereas the United States and Hungary
have a shared history dating to the times of
Lajos Kossuth, whose bust graces the halls of
the United States Congress;
Whereas Hungarians have come to the
United States since its founding as immi-
grants and refugees, enriching our national
fabric;
Whereas the United States first established
diplomatic relations with Hungary in 1921;
Whereas the United States supported Hun-
gary’s accession to the North Atlantic Trea-
ty Organization in 1999, improving Hungary’s
national security and building upon our com-
mon alliance;
Whereas NATO member states have collec-
tively identified corruption and poor govern-
ance, including within member states, as
‘‘security challenges which undermine de-
mocracy, the rule of law and economic devel-
opment’’;
Whereas Viktor Orban has led the Fidesz
party since 2003 and has continuously served
as Hungary’s Prime Minister since 2010;
Whereas, since 2010, the Fidesz government
has retained a super majority in Parliament
despite not winning a majority of votes, and
Prime Minister Orban has systematically un-
dermined the Hungarian Constitution, inde-
pendent media and judiciary;
Whereas Hungary’s 2011 law on religion dis-
criminates against some minority faiths by
stripping legal recognition from more than
300 previously recognized faiths, violating
their rights to freedom of association and
freedom of religion, and has spurred a legal
challenge from a range of religious faiths in
Hungary, including the Hungarian Evan-
gelical Fellowship and Mennonite, reform
Jewish, and Buddhist congregations;
Whereas, following the 2014 Parliamentary
elections in Hungary, the OSCE noted that
Fidesz enjoyed an undue advantage because
of restrictive campaign regulations, biased
media coverage, and campaign activities
that blurred the separation between political
party and the state;
Whereas Prime Minister Orban used his
parliamentary super majority to redraw
Hungary’s electoral map and reduce the
number of seats in Hungary’s Parliament,
providing an advantage which has allowed
the Prime Minister to more easily remain in
power;
Whereas the Government of Hungary cre-
ated the National Media and Communica-
tions Agency and empowered it to impose
fines against independent media outlets for
coverage the government finds unbalanced
or offensive;
Whereas, in November 2018, more than 400
media publications, websites, television
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.006 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S682 January 25, 2019
channels and radio stations in Hungary, al-
ready concentrated in the hands of a few
owners, were donated, without compensa-
tion, by their owners to a central holding
company which, according to a subsequently
passed law, is exempt from competition over-
sight;
Whereas, according to the Department of
State’s 2017 report on human rights, Hungary
has passed a series of laws modifying the ju-
dicial system by restricting the Constitu-
tional Court, altering the rules for electing
Constitution Court justices, and vested the
president of the National Office for the Judi-
ciary, a position appointed by the par-
liament, with significant decision-making
power;
Whereas, according to a Human Rights
Watch analysis of Hungary’s judicial reforms
since 2011, changes to the judiciary have un-
dermined an important check on the govern-
ment by curbing the judiciary’s independ-
ence, forcing nearly 300 judges into early re-
tirement, and imposing limitations on the
Constitutional Court’s ability to review laws
and complaints;
Whereas the Government of Hungary has
enacted legislation stigmatizing non-govern-
mental organizations that receive financial
support from abroad, drawing a legal chal-
lenge from the European Court of Justice;
Whereas, in 2017, the Government of Hun-
gary adopted a law on nongovernmental or-
ganizations that, according to the Depart-
ment of State, ‘‘unfairly burdens a targeted
group of Hungarian civil society organiza-
tions, many of which focus on fighting cor-
ruption and protecting human rights and
civil liberties’’;
Whereas, in February 2018, more than 250
nongovernmental organizations signed a let-
ter in opposition to Hungary’s ‘‘escalating
effort to crackdown on the legitimate work
of civil society groups in Hungary seeking to
promote and defend human rights, provide
legal and social services to people in need in
the country, and publicly express dissenting
opinions in the press and online’’;
Whereas, in 2018, the Government of Hun-
gary adopted amendments to a law on ‘‘aid-
ing illegal migration,’’ which criminalizes
the provision of assistance to refugees and
asylum-seekers, including public advocacy
and humanitarian assistance, and makes the
distribution of know-your-rights leaflets
punishable by up to one year in prison;
Whereas, in 2018, the Government of Hun-
gary introduced a 25 percent tax on organiza-
tions that engage in disfavored speech re-
garding immigration, thereby establishing a
content-based punishment to restrict free
speech;
Whereas, in 2017, the Government of Hun-
gary enacted a law requiring the mandatory
detention of all asylum-seekers in ‘‘transit
camps’’ while their asylum applications are
reviewed and permitting the immediate de-
portation of certain asylum-seekers to Ser-
bia;
Whereas, in response, the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees said that
‘‘this new law violates Hungary’s obligations
under international and EU laws, and will
have a terrible physical and psychological
impact on women, children and men who
have already greatly suffered’’; and
Whereas the erosion of democratic institu-
tions and norms in Hungary has been found
to be in clear violation of the European
Union’s values, resulting in the initiation of
sanctions proceedings against the Orban gov-
ernment: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) rejects the Government of Hungary’s ef-
forts to undermine the independence of the
judiciary, restrict civil society groups, in-
fringe on the freedom of the press, and vio-
late the rights of asylum-seekers in Hun-
gary; and
(2) urges the President to vigorously de-
fend the universal freedoms and democratic
norms under attack by the Orban govern-
ment in Hungary.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 31—HON-
ORING THE LIFE OF HARRIS L.
WOFFORD, JR.
Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
TOOMEY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 31
Whereas the life of service and commit-
ment of Harris L. Wofford, Jr., is an inspira-
tion to the people of the United States and
people around the world and will be for years
to come;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., served in
the Army Air Corps during World War II;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., served on
the Civil Rights Commission established by
President Dwight D. Eisenhower;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., was a
champion of civil rights and nonviolence and
helped create and pass the Civil Rights Act
of 1957 (Public Law 85–315; 71 Stat. 634), the
first civil rights legislation since Recon-
struction;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., served as
Special Assistant to the President for Civil
Rights and Chairman of the Subcabinet
Group on Civil Rights under President John
F. Kennedy;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., played a
key role in the formation of the Peace Corps
and served as the special representative to
Africa and director and associate director of
operations in Ethiopia;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., partici-
pated in the Selma to Montgomery Civil
Rights marches in 1965 in support of voting
rights for African Americans;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., was a
staunch advocate for higher education and
served as the President of the State Univer-
sity of New York at Old Westbury and the
President of Bryn Mawr College;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., served as
Secretary of Labor and Industry in the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania from 1987 to 1991;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., served as a
United States Senator for Pennsylvania from
May 8, 1991, to January 3, 1995;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., was an ad-
vocate for health care access;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., cham-
pioned national service and was instru-
mental in passing the National and Commu-
nity Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law
103–82), which established AmeriCorps, the
Senior Corps, and Learn and Serve America,
and served as head of AmeriCorps;
Whereas Harris L. Wofford, Jr., helped es-
tablish the Federal holiday marking the
birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., as a na-
tional day of service and worked on legisla-
tion directing the Corporation for National
and Community Service to spearhead the ef-
fort marking this day of service; and
Whereas, in 2012, Harris L. Wofford, Jr.,
was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal,
the second-highest civilian honor in the
United States, for his lifetime of humani-
tarian work: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) the Senate—
(A) notes with deep sorrow and solemn
mourning the death of Harris L. Wofford, Jr.;
(B) extends heartfelt sympathy to the en-
tire family of Harris L. Wofford, Jr.;
(C) honors and, on behalf of the United
States, expresses deep appreciation for the
outstanding and important service of Harris
L. Wofford, Jr., to the United States; and
(D) respectfully requests that the Sec-
retary of the Senate communicate this reso-
lution to the House of Representatives and
transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution
to the family of Harris L. Wofford, Jr.; and
(2) when the Senate adjourns today, it
stands adjourned as a further mark of re-
spect to the memory of Harris L. Wofford,
Jr.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 54. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. SHELBY)
proposed an amendment to the joint resolu-
tion H.J. Res. 28, making further continuing
appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes.
SA 55. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. SHELBY)
proposed an amendment to the joint resolu-
tion H.J. Res. 31, making further continuing
appropriations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 54. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
SHELBY) proposed an amendment to the
joint resolution H.J. Res. 28, making
further continuing appropriations for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes;
as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This joint resolution may be cited as the
‘‘Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019’’.
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 15, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to subsection (c) of section 1341 of title 31,
United States Code.
‘‘SEC. 138. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 139. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.008 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S683
January 25, 2019
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.
‘‘SEC. 140. Notwithstanding section 251(a)(1)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985 and the timetable in
section 254(a) of such Act, the final seques-
tration report for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to
section 254(f)(1) of such Act and any order for
fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 254(f)(5)
of such Act shall be issued, for the Congres-
sional Budget Office, 10 days after the date
specified in section 105(3), and for the Office
of Management and Budget, 15 days after the
date specified in section 105(3).
‘‘SEC. 141. Section 319L(e)(1)(A) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(e)(1)(A)) shall continue in effect through
the date specified in section 105(3) of this
Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. Section 405(a) of the Pandemic
and All Hazards Preparedness Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–6a note) shall continue in effect through
the date specified in section 105(3) of this
Act.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
SEC. 103. Subsection (c)(2) of section 1341 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by
inserting ‘‘, and subject to the enactment of
appropriations Acts ending the lapse’’ before
the period.
SEC. 104. For the purposes of the annual re-
port issued pursuant to section 5 of the Stat-
utory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.
934) after adjournment of the second session
of the 115th Congress, and for determining
whether a sequestration order is necessary
under such section, the debit for the budget
year on the 5-year scorecard, if any, and the
10-year scorecard, if any, shall be deducted
from such scorecard in 2019 and added to
such scorecard in 2020.
SA 55. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
SHELBY) proposed an amendment to the
joint resolution H.J. Res. 31, making
further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security
for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019
(division C of Public Law 115–245) is further
amended—
(1) in section 105—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘except as provided in
paragraph (4),’’ before ‘‘December’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) with respect to appropriations and
funds made available, and other authorities
granted, pursuant to section 101(5) of this
joint resolution for the Department of Home-
land Security, February 15, 2019.’’; and
(2) in section 110, by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(c) With respect to mandatory payments
whose budget authority was provided in the
Department of Homeland Security Appro-
priations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law
115–141), subsections (a) and (b) shall be ap-
plied by substituting ‘section 105(4)’ for ‘sec-
tion 105(3)’ each place it appears.’’.
f
FURTHER ADDITIONAL CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that H.J. Res.
28 be considered read a second time and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the joint resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 28) making
further continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the joint resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the amendment at the
desk be considered and agreed to and
the joint resolution, as amended, be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 54) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This joint resolution may be cited as the
‘‘Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019’’.
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 15, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to subsection (c) of section 1341 of title 31,
United States Code.
‘‘SEC. 138. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 139. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.
‘‘SEC. 140. Notwithstanding section 251(a)(1)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985 and the timetable in
section 254(a) of such Act, the final seques-
tration report for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to
section 254(f)(1) of such Act and any order for
fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 254(f)(5)
of such Act shall be issued, for the Congres-
sional Budget Office, 10 days after the date
specified in section 105(3), and for the Office
of Management and Budget, 15 days after the
date specified in section 105(3).
‘‘SEC. 141. Section 319L(e)(1)(A) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(e)(1)(A)) shall continue in effect through
the date specified in section 105(3) of this
Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. Section 405(a) of the Pandemic
and All Hazards Preparedness Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–6a note) shall continue in effect through
the date specified in section 105(3) of this
Act.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
SEC. 103. Subsection (c)(2) of section 1341 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.011 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S684 January 25, 2019
inserting ‘‘, and subject to the enactment of
appropriations Acts ending the lapse’’ before
the period.
SEC. 104. For the purposes of the annual re-
port issued pursuant to section 5 of the Stat-
utory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.
934) after adjournment of the second session
of the 115th Congress, and for determining
whether a sequestration order is necessary
under such section, the debit for the budget
year on the 5-year scorecard, if any, and the
10-year scorecard, if any, shall be deducted
from such scorecard in 2019 and added to
such scorecard in 2020.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the joint resolution to
be read a third time.
The joint resolution was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the joint resolution, as
amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the joint resolu-
tion having been read the third time,
the question is, Shall the joint resolu-
tion pass?
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 28), as
amended, was passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DE-
PARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECU-
RITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that H.J. Res.
31 be considered read a second time and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the joint resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making
further continuing appropriations for the De-
partment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the joint resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the amendment at the
desk be considered and agreed to and
the joint resolution, as amended, be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 55) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019
(division C of Public Law 115–245) is further
amended—
(1) in section 105—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘except as provided in
paragraph (4),’’ before ‘‘December’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) with respect to appropriations and
funds made available, and other authorities
granted, pursuant to section 101(5) of this
joint resolution for the Department of Home-
land Security, February 15, 2019.’’; and
(2) in section 110, by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(c) With respect to mandatory payments
whose budget authority was provided in the
Department of Homeland Security Appro-
priations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law
115–141), subsections (a) and (b) shall be ap-
plied by substituting ‘section 105(4)’ for ‘sec-
tion 105(3)’ each place it appears.’’.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the joint resolution to
be read a third time.
The joint resolution was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the joint resolution, as
amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the joint resolu-
tion having been read the third time,
the question is, Shall the joint resolu-
tion pass?
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31), as
amended, was passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that it be in
order at this time for me to request a
conference with the House on H.J. Res.
31.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
COMPOUND MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to insist
upon the Senate amendment, request a
conference with the House, and author-
ize the Presiding Officer to appoint
conferees with respect to H.J. Res. 31.
I know of no further debate on the
motion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES
The Presiding Officer appointed Mr.
SHELBY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr.
TESTER conferees on the part of the
Senate.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF HARRIS
L. WOFFORD, JR.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 31, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The assistant legislative clerk read
as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 31) honoring the life
of Harris L. Wofford, Jr.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask that
the resolution be agreed to, the pre-
amble be agreed to, and the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 31) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the major-
ity leader be authorized to sign duly
enrolled bills or joint resolutions today
through Monday, January 28.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, JANUARY
28, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, January
28; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 1; finally, that notwithstanding
the provisions of rule XXII, at 5:30 p.m.
on Monday, the motion to proceed to
the motion to reconsider cloture on the
motion to proceed to
S. 1 on January 8 be agreed to, the mo-
tion to reconsider cloture on the mo-
tion to proceed to S. 1 be agreed to, and
the Senate vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the motion to proceed,
upon reconsideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 3 P.M.
MONDAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the provisions of S. Res.
31 and do so as a further mark of re-
spect for the late Harris Wofford, Jr.,
former Senator for the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JA6.002 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S685
January 25, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order and pursuant to S.
Res. 31, the Senate stands adjourned
until 3 p.m. on Monday, January 28,
and does so as a further mark of re-
spect for the late Harris L. Wofford,
Jr., former Senator from Pennsylvania.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 4:42 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
January 28, 2019, at 3 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JA6.023 S25JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E93
January 25, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE HONORABLE
TODD RICHARDSON
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the Honorable Todd
Richardson on being named the Poplar Bluff
Chamber of Commerce’s Citizen of the Year.
I had the honor of serving alongside Todd in
the Missouri State House and have grown to
admire and respect him dearly.
Todd became Speaker of the Missouri
House in 2015, leading the chamber and state
during a tumultuous time. He passed sweep-
ing tax reform legislation, making Missouri
more competitive economically. He also
passed historic legislation protecting the un-
born and Missourians’ Second Amendment
rights, while overseeing a rewrite of harass-
ment policies in Missouri’s Capitol. All of these
accomplishments were done while carrying
himself with dignity and integrity, garnering the
utmost respect from members on both sides of
the aisle. Todd was the right person in the
right position at the right time to lead our state
through some significant times of uncertainty.
Todd was recently selected by Governor
Parsons to be the Director of MO HealthNet.
He is already making an imprint by leading an
effort to root out fraud and prevent waste
while providing accessible, quality healthcare
to all Missourians.
Todd is a man of great character, who
sought for his tenure in the Missouri State
House to be consistent with his moral and per-
sonal values, or as he put it ‘‘to be the same
person when I leave as I was when I arrived.’’
And Madam Speaker, he has done just that.
On behalf of the Eighth Congressional District
of Missouri, it is my great privilege to recog-
nize a true gentleman from Butler County,
Todd Richardson.
f
CONGRATULATING REVEREND
LUKATA AGYEI MJUMBE
HON. BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate Reverend
Lukata Agyei Mjumbe on his appointment as
Pastor of the Witherspoon Street Presbyterian
Church of Princeton.
Reverend Mjumbe has been a lifelong lead-
er in his community. He has assumed roles as
activist, grassroots community organizer, and
anti-violence advocate centered in Black and
Brown communities. During the aftermath of
the 1992 Rodney King Rebellion, he rose to
the occasion to assist as a campus and com-
munity leader in the city of Atlanta. He has
been recognized as a leader for his work in
organizing campaigns with organizations and
formations in the Black Belt and across the
Southern United States. Reverend Mjumbe
currently serves as the National Coordinator of
the Black Organizing Capacity Support Project
of the Praxis Project and as a Member of the
Coordinating Committee of the Black Alliance
for Peace.
On Sunday, January 27, 2019, Reverend
Mjumbe will give his inaugural sermon at the
historic church. I wish him many wonderful
years leading his congregation and success in
his new role.
I urge my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating Reverend Mjumbe on his appointment
and I pray for God to bless him, his congrega-
tion, and the greater Witherspoon Street Pres-
byterian Church community.
f
RECOGNIZING COACH KEN KRAUSE
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Ken Krause, Muskego High
School’s head football coach. Ken was nomi-
nated by the Green Bay Packers as a con-
tender for the 2018 Don Shula NFL High
School Coach of the Year Award. This na-
tional honor is given to high school coaches
for their character, leadership, and commit-
ment to player health and safety. Ken’s dedi-
cation to his players and community is evident
to those in Southeast Wisconsin and through-
out the state.
A West Allis native and West Allis Central
High School and University of Wisconsin-
Whitewater alum, Ken began his coaching ca-
reer at the age of 19 and became a head
coach at 23 years old. This past season, Ken
led the Muskego High School football team to
its first WIAA Division I State Championship
title after a perfect 14–0 season. Ken was also
named the 2018 Wisconsin Football Coaches
Association/Green Bay Packers Coach of the
Year.
I am proud to recognize Ken for his suc-
cesses and dedication to his players. On be-
half of Wisconsin’s First Congressional Dis-
trict, I thank Ken for being a role model to
young players, for helping them reach their full
potential on and off the field, and for his con-
tributions to our community.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Ken, his wife Julie, and their four
sons, Cody, Dylan, Aiden, and Ashton for this
great honor and achievement. Go Warriors.
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
PATTY SCHRAMM
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Patty Schramm, a cherished
member of the Central New York community.
A devoted student of her faith, Patty allowed
religion to guide her as she strived to improve
the lives of others. Patty will always be re-
membered as a compassionate, joyful indi-
vidual.
Patty was born in Omaha, Nebraska and
later relocated with her family to Syracuse.
She attended high school at St. John the Bap-
tist Academy, then earned degrees from Syra-
cuse University and Mercyhurst University.
She used her knowledge to educate Central
New York youth, working as an Alcohol and
Drug Abuse Prevention and Education Pro-
gram counselor for OCM BOCES and the Dio-
cese of Syracuse Catholic Schools. This in-
cluded time at Bishop Ludden Junior/Senior
High School, Immaculate Conception School,
Cathedral Academy at Pompei, and her alma
mater St. John the Baptist Elementary School.
Patty was admired at all these schools and in-
fluenced the lives of countless students
throughout her career.
Outside of her professional life, Patty dis-
played the same inspirational qualities. She
brought a positive attitude and caring person-
ality to her church and social gatherings. She
truly knew how to lift people’s spirits.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
House to join me in celebrating the life of
Patty Schramm. She was a kind spirit who
genuinely cared for the well-being of all she
interacted with and worked to see them suc-
ceed. She will be dearly missed throughout
the Central New York community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 29TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF BLACK JANUARY
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, today I rise
to remember the 29th anniversary of what is
known as Black January. This month, 29
years ago, the Soviet Union sent its Red Army
into Azerbaijan to violently put down a growing
independence movement. The 26,000 Red
Army troops attacked peaceful demonstrators
in the capital city of Azerbaijan, Baku. The at-
tacks killed more than 130 civilians, left over
700 wounded, and another 800 people were
imprisoned.
The U.S.S.R. had hoped the sudden strike
and violence of action would send a message
to not only the Azeri people but to millions of
others under the oppressive Soviet thumb.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JA8.001 E25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E94 January 25, 2019
The message was clear: dissent will not be
tolerated.
The Soviets underestimated the resolve of
the freedom-loving Azeri people, and their ac-
tions galvanized the population. The people
would continue to push for freedom and de-
mocracy, and the Parliament formally declared
it on August 30, 1991.
Since then, Azerbaijan has been a crucial
ally of the U.S. in the region, even providing
troops to serve with U.S. forces in Kosovo,
Iraq, and Afghanistan. Azerbaijan plays a key
role in Europe’s energy security by shipping
natural gas to Europe.
I urge my colleagues to recognize the 29th
Anniversary of Black January and the sac-
rifices of the Azeri people.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND MILI-
TARY SERVICE OF WORLD WAR
II VETERAN JOHN ROY SHAN-
NON, JR.
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life and military
service of World War II Veteran John Roy
Shannon, Jr. Mr. Shannon has always placed
God and family first in his life, offering friend-
ship and brotherly love to all those who
crossed his path.
Mr. Shannon was born on November 4,
1918, in Quitman, Mississippi. His father, a
World War I Veteran, met and married the
former Ruby Olivia Harper. They resided in
Quitman, Mississippi, eventually moving to Bir-
mingham, Alabama. Mr. Shannon had three
siblings; Joyce Mitchell, Mary Ann McWaters,
and Harper Shannon.
In 1938, Mr. Shannon married, Minnie
Catheren Cook, a fellow church member and
a Jefferson County High School classmate.
Mr. Shannon worked for Pan Am Oil Company
which later became part of American Oil Com-
pany. From July 1943 until November 1945,
Mr. Shannon answered the call to serve our
great nation in the U.S. Army. Stationed at the
Iceland Base Command, Mr. Shannon rose to
the rank of Staff Sergeant receiving the Good
Conduct Medal, European African Middle east-
ern Campaign medal, and the World War II
Victory Medal in recognition of his distin-
guished military service.
Upon Mr. Shannon’s return from military
service, the family grew to include four sons;
Harold, Ralph, Roy, and Sam Shannon. Roy
Shannon, his third-born son, recently said his
father was proud to serve our nation during
World War II. ‘‘Dad said America called and
he answered,’’ Roy Shannon said. ‘‘He in-
spired three of us boys to follow in his foot-
steps. Harold, Ralph, and I are all U.S. Military
Veterans.’’
Throughout his life and to this day, Mr.
Shannon set an example for his children to
follow. Mr. Shannon, a lifelong Christian, was
an active member of Huffman Baptist Church
in Birmingham, an Adult Sunday School Class
teacher for over 20 years and was chosen to
be a lifetime deacon of the church. ‘‘My father
practiced what he believed,’’ Roy Shannon
said. ‘‘He believed in God and country and he
instilled that in us.’’
Sam Shannon, Mr. Shannon’s youngest
son, said that he was lucky to have a father
who was so devoted to God and family. ‘‘At
the time, we did not realize how fortunate we
were,’’ Sam said. ‘‘He made it his main mis-
sion to be a good father and husband. He
made sure we were fed, clothed, and housed
and above all—loved.’’
Harold Shannon said his father is proud to
be a veteran. ‘‘Being away from our family
was difficult for dad because while he was
serving, he missed the birth of one of my
brothers,’’ Harold said. ‘‘Even so, our father
was very, very proud to be a veteran. To this
day, he always wears his World War II cap.’’
Additionally, Harold said that Mr. Shannon
was always a loving and caring father. ‘‘He
worked day and night to take care of us. I
cannot recall him ever raising his voice. He
has the patience of Job. He is still an example
for all of us to follow. We’re so proud of him.’’
Mr. Shannon was married to Catheren Cook
for 72 years until her death in 2010. After her
passing, he became a resident of the Wesley
Gardens Retirement Community in Mont-
gomery, Alabama. Roy Shannon said his fa-
ther is in great health which has the whole
family counting their blessings daily.
Mr. Shannon is an American patriot who
served our great nation and continues to set
an example for others to follow. We wish him
many more years of good health.
f
RECOGNIZING MS. MEREDITH
NESS AS THE 2018–2019 WALTON
COUNTY, FLORIDA TEACHER OF
THE YEAR
HON. MATT GAETZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize Ms. Meredith Ness as the 2018–2019
Walton County Teacher of the Year. For
seven years, Ms. Ness has served the Walton
County School District with dedication, pas-
sion, and an unwavering commitment to serv-
ing others.
In Northwest Florida, we are fortunate to
have some of the best teachers in the Nation.
It is recognized that teaching is an extremely
difficult, yet extremely rewarding, profession.
Ms. Ness has performed her teaching duties
exceptionally, while also being a pillar of her
community.
Ms. Ness is revered by her Principal and
colleagues for her incredible willingness to al-
ways lend a helping hand to those in need.
She engages her students thoughtfully, and
gives them a chance to take their thinking and
knowledge to a deeper level.
Her sponsorship and involvement with the
First Lego League, an after-school STEM ro-
botics program for students, shows that her
support and outreach for her students extends
far beyond the walls of her fourth-grade class.
Ms. Ness has displayed dedicated team-
work in her implementation of this extra-
curricular opportunity. I commend her for her
steadfast willingness to serve those that mat-
ter most—her students.
For all her contributions to the community, I
am proud that Ms. Ness is a constituent of
Florida’s First Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United
States Congress, I am privileged to recognize
Ms. Ness for her accomplishments.
Her longstanding commitment to excellence,
continued achievement, professionalism, and
innovation all reflect well on her. She is an ex-
ceptional educator, and her students are lucky
to have her in the classroom.
Meredith Ness has truly made her commu-
nity a better place. I thank her for her service,
and wish her all the best.
f
HONORING THE CAREER AND AC-
COMPLISHMENTS OF MS. JO-
ANNE GAUS
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Ms. Joanne Gaus and recognize her
tremendous impact as a teacher at St. Richard
Catholic Elementary School in Chicago. Ms.
Gaus’ dedication to her students is nothing
short of remarkable. At the age of 71, she
claims she is ‘‘not quite done yet’’ despite her
reputation for being the first to arrive and the
last to leave for over 50 years. Her commit-
ment to her profession and distinguished ten-
ure stand as an example to all educators striv-
ing to prepare our country’s youth for the fu-
ture.
Ms. Gaus started her career by teaching
second and third grade at a time when teach-
ing jobs were hard to come by. Her former
students are quick to praise her, noting that
she instilled confidence and curiosity in them,
traits that have lasted throughout their aca-
demic careers and lives. Respected by her
colleagues as well, the St. Richard School
staff find her enthusiasm and creative ap-
proach to teaching to be contagious. She is
also beloved by parents, since they know their
children will be well taken care of and re-
spected under her tutelage.
Examples of Ms. Gaus’ efforts range from
decorating her classroom for the seasons, re-
designing the classroom to encourage peer
interaction, and incorporating new tech-
nologies into her curriculum. She always goes
the extra mile in all of her interactions with
students, while teaching them both academics
and how to be responsible. She is constantly
planning new ways to get her students ex-
cited, with class pets, creative desk set-ups,
and projects.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
Ms. Joanne Gaus. This outstanding Catholic
educator has devoted her life to bettering the
lives of her students, and she continues to
spark their appreciation of their faith at a
young age. I congratulate her on her distin-
guished accomplishments, thank her for her
service, and wish her well in her future en-
deavors, whether she is teaching in the class-
room or teaching lessons of life.
f
HONORING MS. PATRICIA
GARDNER
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, January 25, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Ms. Patricia Gardner and commend
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JA8.005 E25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E95
January 25, 2019
her on her career and contributions to our
community.
Ms. Gardner worked as a nonprofit execu-
tive manager for over two decades before she
joined Silicon Valley Council of Nonprofits
(‘‘SVCN’’) as CEO in 2001. Under her leader-
ship, SVCN followed its mission to foster and
magnify the influence and contribution of non-
profit agencies and business in Santa Clara
County. SVCN works to help our community
by assisting individuals and families who are
disenfranchised and who struggle to meet
basic needs. SVCN also helps guide our local
nonprofits through difficult financial times and
to build up their capacity to become better
service providers. As SVCN increasingly be-
came an important voice with the nonprofit
sector, local foundations, and local and state
governments, it expanded from a small group
of fewer than 50 agencies and a budget of
under $100,000 to representing over 200
agencies and a budget of over a million dol-
lars.
In addition to her role with SVCN, Ms. Gard-
ner was actively involved in a variety of local
concerns to our community. Among other
things, she served on a number of key policy
committees, including the Blue Ribbon Com-
mittee on Housing and Homelessness, the
City of San Jose and County Senior Nutrition
Task Forces, the Juvenile Justice Systems
Collaborative, the City of San Jose General
Fund Structural Deficit Committee, and the
Measure A-Hospital Bond Oversight Com-
mittee.
Ms. Gardner received recognition for her
service in our community. Senator, then-As-
semblyman, Jim Beall, selected her as
Woman of the Year, and the local nonprofit,
United Way, named her Community Builder of
the Year in 2011. The following year, Commu-
nity Solutions awarded the Community Builder
Award to SVCN for Ms. Gardner’s advocacy to
preserve funding for essential services. In
2018, Ms. Gardner received the Siempre
Award from Grail Family Service and the
Alumni of the Year award from the San Jose
State University’s College of Social
Sciences—Political Science. The San Jose
Business Journal added Ms. Gardner to its
Women of Influence list, and she is generally
known across our state as one of the leaders
in nonprofit advocacy.
I have known Ms. Patricia Gardner for over
forty years. She is efficient, capable, orga-
nized and a leader. But most of all, she is a
caring human being whose passion for justice
and compassion have led her to a life of serv-
ice to others. I feel privileged to know her as
a friend and fortunate to live in a community
that is healthier and more fair because of her
service.
I wish to congratulate Ms. Gardner on her
career. Today we honor her for her leadership
and advocacy in our community. I wish her the
best of luck in exploring her next chapter as
she transitions to her next pursuit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JA8.009 E25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D78
Friday, January 25, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed H.J. Res. 28, Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, as amended.
Senate passed H.J. Res. 31, Department of Homeland Security Further
Continuing Appropriations, as amended.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S667–S685
Measures Introduced: Five bills and four resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 227–231, S.J.
Res. 6, and S. Res. 29–31. Pages S679–80
Measures Passed:
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations
Act: Senate passed H.J. Res. 28, making further con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019, after
agreeing to the following amendment proposed
thereto: Pages S683–84
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 54, in
the nature of a substitute. Pages S683–84
Department of Homeland Security Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations: Senate passed H.J. Res. 31,
making further continuing appropriations for the
Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year
2019, after agreeing to the following amendment
proposed thereto: Page S684
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 55, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S684
Senate insisted on its amendment, requested a
conference with the House thereon, and the Chair
was authorized to appoint the following conferees on
the part of the Senate: Senators Shelby, Capito,
Hoeven, Blunt, Leahy, Durbin, and Tester. Page S684
Honoring the life of Harris L. Wofford, Jr.: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 31, honoring the life of Harris
L. Wofford, Jr. Page S684
Signing Authority—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that Sen-
ator McConnell be authorized to sign duly enrolled
bills or joint resolutions Friday, January 25, 2019,
through Monday, January 28, 2019. Page S684
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agree-
ment was reached providing that at approximately 3
p.m., on Monday, January 28, 2019, Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of S. 1, to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel, to reau-
thorize the United States-Jordan Defense Coopera-
tion Act of 2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter
of the Syrian people; and that notwithstanding the
provisions of Rule XXII, at 5:30 p.m., the motion
to proceed to the motion to reconsider the motion
to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to con-
sideration of the bill on January 8, 2019, be agreed
to, the motion to reconsider the motion to invoke
cloture on the motion to proceed to consideration of
the bill, be agreed to, and Senate vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to con-
sideration of the bill, upon reconsideration.
Page S684
Additional Cosponsors: Page S680
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S681
Amendments Submitted: Pages S682–83
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon and ad-
journed, as a further mark of respect to the memory
of the late former Senator Harris L. Wofford, Jr., in
accordance with S. Res. 31, at 4:42 p.m., until 3
p.m. on Monday, January 28, 2019. (For Senate’s
program, see the remarks of the Majority Leader in
today’s Record on page S684.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JA9.REC D25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D79
January 25, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 14 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 790–803, and 2 resolutions, H. Res.
77–78, were introduced. Page H1217
Additional Cosponsors: Page H1218
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Swalwell (CA) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H1215
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. Dr. Dan C. Cummins, Capitol
Worship, Washington, DC. Page H1215
Recess: The House recessed at 2:03 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:56 p.m. Page H1215
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019: The House agreed to take from the
Speaker’s table and concur in the Senate amendment
to H.J. Res. 28, making further continuing appro-
priations for fiscal year 2019. Pages H1215–16
Making further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019: The House agreed by unanimous consent
to disagree to the Senate amendment and agree to
a conference on H.J. Res. 31, making further con-
tinuing appropriations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019. Page H1216
The Chair appointed the following conferees: Rep-
resentatives Lowey, Roybal-Allard, Price (NC), Lee
(CA), Cuellar, Aguilar, Granger, Fleischmann,
Graves (GA), and Palazzo. Page H1216
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H1215.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2:30 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
JANUARY 28, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of January 28 through February 1, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Monday, Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East
Act, and vote on the motion to invoke cloture on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
upon reconsideration, at 5:30 p.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Armed Services: January 29, to hold hear-
ings to examine China and Russia, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
January 29, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to hold
hearings to examine Department of Defense enterprise-
wide cybersecurity policies and architecture, 2:30 p.m.,
SR–222.
Committee on the Budget: January 29, to hold hearings to
examine the Congressional Budget Office’s budget and
economic outlook, focusing on fiscal years 2019–2029,
2:30 p.m., SD–608.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JA9.REC D25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D80 January 25, 2019
Committee on Environment and Public Works: January 29,
to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Nicole R.
Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of the Federal
Highway Administration, Department of Transportation,
10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: January 29, to hold hearings to
examine drug pricing in America, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: Jan-
uary 29, to hold hearings to examine access to care, focus-
ing on health centers and providers in underserved com-
munities, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Indian Affairs: January 29, organizational
business meeting to consider committee rules and an
original resolution authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee during the 116th Congress; to be immediately fol-
lowed by a business meeting to consider S. 46, to repeal
the Klamath Tribe Judgment Fund Act, S. 50, to author-
ize the Secretary of the Interior to assess sanitation and
safety conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facilities that
were constructed to provide affected Columbia River
Treaty tribes access to traditional fishing grounds and ex-
pend funds on construction of facilities and structures to
improve those conditions, S. 51, to extend the Federal
recognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians
of Montana, S. 199, to provide for the transfer of certain
Federal land in the State of Minnesota for the benefit of
the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe, S. 207, to enhance tribal
road safety, S. 209, to amend the Indian Self-Determina-
tion and Education Assistance Act to provide further self-
governance by Indian Tribes, S. 210, to amend the Tribal
Law and Order Act of 2010 and the Indian Law Enforce-
ment Reform Act to provide for advancement in public
safety services to Indian communities, S. 211, to amend
the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent re-
sources vital to Indian victims of crime, S. 212, to amend
the Native American Business Development, Trade Pro-
motion, and Tourism Act of 2000, the Buy Indian Act,
and the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to pro-
vide industry and economic development opportunities to
Indian communities, S. 216, to provide for equitable
compensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spo-
kane Reservation for the use of tribal land for the produc-
tion of hydropower by the Grand Coulee Dam, S. 224,
to provide for the conveyance of certain property to the
Tanana Tribal Council located in Tanana, Alaska, and to
the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation located in
Dillingham, Alaska, and S. 226, to clarify the rights of
Indians and Indian Tribes on Indian lands under the Na-
tional Labor Relations Act, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: January 29, business meeting
to consider the nominations of William Pelham Barr, of
Virginia, to be Attorney General, and Donald W. Wash-
ington, of Texas, to be Director of the United States Mar-
shals Service, both of the Department of Justice, Bridget
S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric D. Miller, of Washington,
both to be a United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, Eric E. Mur-
phy, of Ohio, and Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, both to be
a United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Alli-
son Jones Rushing, of North Carolina, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, Rossie David
Alston, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Virginia, Roy Kalman Altman,
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, and Rodney Smith, each to be
a United States District Judge for the Southern District
of Florida, Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, Thomas P.
Barber, and Wendy Williams Berger, both to be a
United States District Judge for the Middle District of
Florida, J. Campbell Barker, and Michael J. Truncale,
both to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, Pamela A. Barker, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, Ken-
neth D. Bell, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of North Carolina, Jean-Paul Boulee, to
be United States District Judge for the Northern District
of Georgia, Holly A. Brady, and Damon Ray Leichty,
both to be a United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Indiana, Andrew Lynn Brasher, to be
United States District Judge for the Middle District of
Alabama, Brian C. Buescher, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Nebraska, James David Cain,
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of Louisiana, Stephen R. Clark, Sr., to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri,
Clifton L. Corker, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Tennessee, Daniel Desmond
Domenico, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Colorado, Karin J. Immergut, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Oregon, Matthew
J. Kacsmaryk, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas, Corey Landon Maze, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Alabama, David Steven Morales, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Texas, Sarah
Daggett Morrison, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Ohio, Carl J. Nichols, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Columbia,
Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the District of Utah, J. Nicholas Ranjan, to be
United States District Judge for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, T. Kent
Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel Winsor, both to be a
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Florida, Joshua Wolson, and John Milton Younge, both
to be a United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania, Patrick R. Wyrick, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa, M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, and Timothy M.
Reif, of the District of Columbia, both to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade, and Rich-
ard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan T. Holte, of
Ohio, both to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: January 29, busi-
ness meeting to consider committee rules and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by the Committee
during the 116th Congress, 12:15 p.m., S–219, Capitol.
Select Committee on Intelligence: January 29, to hold hear-
ings to examine worldwide threats, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JA9.REC D25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D81
January 25, 2019
January 29, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to
examine worldwide threats, 1 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on the Budget, January 29, Full Committee,
organizational meeting, 9:30 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
January 29, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Congressional Budget Office’s Budget and Economic
Outlook’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, January 29, Full
Committee, organizational meeting, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
January 31, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Con-
sequences of the Shutdown: Endangering Students,
Workers, Families, and Communities’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, January 31, Full
Committee, entitled ‘‘Examining the Trump Shutdown’s
Devastating Impact on Federal Workers, Public Health,
the Environment, and Consumers’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, January 29, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, January 30, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, January 29, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Actions of
Drug Companies in Raising Prescription Drug Prices’’,
10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
January 31, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impact
of the Shutdown on the Coast Guard’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, January 29, Full Committee, hear-
ing on H.R. 790, the ‘‘Federal Civilian Workforce Pay
Raise Fairness Act of 2019’’, 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Small Business, January 30, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, 1 p.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, January 29, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting Americans with Pre-
Existing Conditions’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JA9.REC D25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D82 January 25, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, January 28
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion
to proceed to consideration of the bill, upon reconsider-
ation, at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, January 28
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Gaetz, Matt, Fla., E94
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E93
Katko, John, N.Y., E93
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E94
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E94
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E94
Smith, Jason, Mo., E93
Steil, Bryan, Wisc., E93
Watson Coleman, Bonnie, N.J., E93
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25JA9.REC D25JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
