Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H521
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019 No. 7
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BROWN of Maryland).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 14, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ANTHONY
G. BROWN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
OPEN UP THE GOVERNMENT AND
SECURE OUR BORDERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, it is
always good to go back home, and this
weekend was especially rewarding for
me. My wife and I left D.C. this past
Friday afternoon, flew through Dallas,
and landed in Wichita sometime short-
ly after sunset.
As we hopped in my truck, the snow
had started to fall, and it was a beau-
tiful Kansas evening. We got home and
got to see our two boys. I woke up the
next morning early, went to Sterling,
Kansas, for a business meeting, then
went over to Salina and got to meet
some more of my friends.
On the way home, I got to listen to
the radio. I listened to a Kansas State
Wildcats basketball game and heard
the Wildcats win that game by 1 point.
And then when I got home, a special
treat: I got to watch both the Kansas
University basketball team win and
watch my Kansas City Chiefs win. And
I got to watch those games with my
two boys. So it was a trifecta for Kan-
sas, a great day.
The next morning, I woke up early
for church and went to early service,
and basically had to hop in my truck
and come back to D.C. that same after-
noon.
On the way back to the airport, I got
a little bit of time to reflect; and one of
the things that had come to mind was
something that my good friend, my
mentor, the former majority leader,
one of the longest serving majority
leaders in the Senate, Senator Bob
Dole, had told me.
One thing Senator Dole says every
time I see him is to always remember
where I am from. And I think I get
that. I think most of us get it, that
where we are from is so very important
to us, and I have always done a good
job with that.
But the other thing that he talked
about—I approached him one time
when we were having a tough issue
here in Congress, one of the first issues
I had to vote on. What he told me,
rather than giving me an answer, giv-
ing me his opinion, was to go back to
Kansas, and the people of Kansas would
tell me what to do.
So what is ironic as I went back
home for these meetings and to go to
church is that, everywhere I went, I
heard the same thing. I heard the same
thing from people in church that I had
no idea that they knew so much about
what was going on in Washington.
In Salina, in Sterling, everywhere I
went, people asked me: When is Con-
gress going to give the President his
money to build the border?—a very
simple question. So that allowed me to
kind of ponder the issue a little bit
more.
I have stood beside the President
since day one on this issue. When I was
running for Congress, I made national
security, border security the top pri-
ority on what I was going to stand for;
and today, I have been to that border.
As a physician of 25 years and now a
Congressman for 2 years, I would tell
you this: There is, indeed, a humani-
tarian crisis on the border as well as a
national security issue on the border.
Whether it is concerning the 2,000 peo-
ple who come across that border ille-
gally every day—every night we house
some 40,000 people. We give them a bed.
We feed them. Every day, two tons of
illegal drugs come across our borders.
Mr. Speaker, that sounds like a hu-
manitarian crisis to me and sounds
like a national security crisis to me.
People then often ask me: ‘‘Well, why
don’t we compromise?’’
And I will tell you this. I feel like we
have compromised already. The Presi-
dent, myself, most Republicans, we
asked for $25 billion to secure those
borders and to provide humanitarian
help for people.
We thought we probably needed to
build 1,000, maybe 1,500 miles of border.
We compromised from those numbers
back to asking for just $5.7 billion, and
now we are asking for moneys to build
about 234 miles of not a wall, but a bar-
rier, a fence.
I think that that is compromise.
And, Mr. Speaker, I would ask that you
come back to the table now and nego-
tiate in good faith.
Mr. Speaker, people often talk that
this has to be an either/or opportunity,
that we either have to have border se-
curity or show compassion.
We can do both. America can do both.
We can have border security, we can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:43 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.000 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H522 January 14, 2019
provide for the humanitarian needs of
people, and we can come up with a
compassionate, long-term immigration
process.
This system needs to be totally over-
hauled. I am all in. We have had sev-
eral great bills that we have tried to
get through.
So, Mr. Speaker, please come back to
the table. Let’s open up the govern-
ment, and let’s secure our borders.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Thank You, God, for giving us an-
other day. Even before the first word is
spoken this day, O Lord, guide our
minds, thoughts, hearts, and desires.
Breathe into the Members of this
House a new spirit. Shape this Con-
gress and our world according to Your
design that all might fulfill Your holy
will.
Bless the Members of this assembly
with attentive hearts and open minds,
that through the diversity of ideas,
they may sort out what is best for our
Nation.
May all speech in this assembly be
deliberately free of all prejudice so
that others might listen whole-
heartedly. Then all dialogue will be
mutually respectful, surprising even us
with unity and justice.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 4 of rule I, the following
enrolled bill was signed by the Speaker
on Friday, January 11, 2019:
S. 24, to provide for the compensation
of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropria-
tions.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 2 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. WELCH) at 4 p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or on which the
vote incurs objection under clause 6 of
rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
INVESTING IN MAIN STREET ACT
OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 116) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Investment Act of 1958 to increase
the amount that certain banks and
savings associations may invest in
small business investment companies,
subject to the approval of the appro-
priate Federal banking agency, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 116
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Investing in
Main Street Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. INVESTMENT IN SMALL BUSINESS IN-
VESTMENT COMPANIES.
Section 302(b) of the Small Business In-
vestment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682(b)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the
period the following: ‘‘or, subject to the ap-
proval of the appropriate Federal banking
agency, 15 percent of such capital and sur-
plus’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the
period the following: ‘‘or, subject to the ap-
proval of the appropriate Federal banking
agency, 15 percent of such capital and sur-
plus’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY
DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘appropriate Federal banking agen-
cy’ has the meaning given that term under
section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
116, the Investing in Main Street Act of
2019.
Since 1958, the Small Business In-
vestment Company, SBIC, program has
been an integral part of SBA’s mission
to provide small businesses with cap-
ital and create jobs. It achieves this
purpose by partnering private and pub-
lic investments in early-stage startup
businesses.
In fact, in 2016, the SBIC program
provided $6 billion in financing to 1,200
small businesses and helped sustain
over 120,000 jobs. It has afforded Amer-
ica’s small businesses an invaluable op-
portunity to grow their innovative
ideas.
Just look at Apple, Tesla, and FedEx.
They have all achieved what we hope
for every small business: extraordinary
growth and success. And they each re-
ceived early-stage financing from
SBICs.
One of the SBIC program’s greatest
strengths is its hands-off approach, giv-
ing fund managers the autonomy to in-
vest in almost any business sector they
choose, from apparel to cutting-edge
technology. This freedom, coupled with
sound investment strategies, has led to
its success.
Access to capital remains the number
one priority for small firms across
America. The SBIC program has helped
increase the flow of capital to worthy
small companies, yet we can do more
to ensure they can meet growing de-
mand.
H.R. 116 will strengthen and grow the
SBIC program by letting banks and
Federal savings associations invest up
to 15 percent of their holdings into
SBICs. This increase in capital, at no
cost to the taxpayers, provides entre-
preneurs with enhanced opportunities
to grow their businesses and create
jobs.
The goal of the SBIC program is to
fill the gap between the availability of
venture capital and the needs of small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.002 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H523
January 14, 2019
businesses in startup and growth situa-
tions. Today’s bill makes a sensible
change to address this goal by facili-
tating increased investment in small
firms.
I applaud Congresswoman CHU in
identifying this issue and finding a so-
lution. I, therefore, ask my fellow
Members to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
116, the Investing in Main Street Act of
2019.
Small businesses across the country
are reporting increased confidence and
heightened optimism. Despite these
improving economic conditions for the
Nation’s true job creators, many of
them are still facing hurdles when it
comes to accessing capital to grow and
expand their operations.
To assist small businesses with their
financing needs, the SBA, Small Busi-
ness Administration, offers the Small
Business Investment Company pro-
gram, also known as the SBIC pro-
gram.
While currently running on a zero-
cost subsidy to the American taxpayer,
the SBIC program increases access to
long-term capital through a private eq-
uity financing model. SBICs are pri-
vately owned but licensed and regu-
lated by the SBA.
The Investing in Main Street Act of
2019 provides a simple and common-
sense solution to a limitation that is
holding back growth within the SBIC
program.
Currently, financial institutions and
savings associations are prohibited
from investing more than 5 percent of
capital or surplus in an SBIC. In order
to assist small businesses as they seek
capital, H.R. 116 increases the 5 percent
limitation to 15 percent, subject to the
approval of the financial institution’s
regulator.
In the 115th Congress, an identical
bill was favorably reported out of the
Small Business Committee, unani-
mously, and passed on the House floor
via voice vote.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. JUDY CHU)
and the gentleman from South Caro-
lina (Mr. NORMAN) for continuing their
work on this legislation. As always, I
thank the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) the now-chair-
man of the Small Business Committee,
for advancing this bipartisan bill that
will further improve the SBIC program.
Small businesses, from Ohio to Texas
to California, are transforming towns
and communities across the country.
They are building the Nation’s newest
products and offering the newest serv-
ices, all while constantly innovating.
They are nimble, swift, and often very
flexible. We must work together to cre-
ate an environment where they are free
to grow and create jobs.
Therefore, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, the Investing in Main
Street Act, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield as much time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. JUDY CHU), author of this
legislation.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in support of my bill,
H.R. 116, the Investing in Main Street
Act of 2019.
I am so pleased that the House is
considering this bill at the very start
of this new Congress because small
businesses are the backbone of our
economy. They account for two out of
every three new jobs and lead the way
in innovation.
The SBA’s Small Business Invest-
ment Company, or SBIC, program is an
effective tool that helps small busi-
nesses get off the ground and succeed.
The program facilitates private invest-
ment into early-stage startup small
businesses across the country, and all
at no Federal cost.
Staples, Tesla, FedEx, Apple, Intel,
and Costco are just a few examples of
the thousands of small businesses that
have successfully used the Small Busi-
ness Investment Company program
during their early stages of growth. In
fact, in 2016, the SBIC program pro-
vided $6 billion in financing to 1,200
small businesses and helped to sustain
over 120,000 jobs. It has afforded Amer-
ica’s small businesses an invaluable op-
portunity to grow their innovative
ideas.
Now, many decades ago, the SBIC
program was restricted from taking
more than 5 percent of capital invest-
ments from banks due to this provision
in the Small Business Investment Act
of 1958. That provision is still the law.
However, since then, banking regula-
tions established by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency allow
these same banks to invest up to 15
percent of their capital and surplus
into SBICs.
I introduced the Investing in Main
Street Act with Representative RALPH
NORMAN of South Carolina to correct
this discrepancy. This bipartisan bill
would allow banks and Federal savings
associations to invest up to 15 percent
of their holdings to these funds to
match current banking regulations.
This change will strengthen and grow
the SBIC program, unleashing more
capital to small businesses, and all at
no cost to the taxpayer. That means
more entrepreneurs will be able to ac-
cess the capital they need to grow their
businesses and hire their workers.
This legislation makes a sensible
change to address the number one need
of small firms accessing capital. I,
therefore, ask my fellow Members to
support this bill.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, so I am prepared to
close.
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank the gen-
tlewoman for working with us on this.
The SBIC program invests in small
firms across the country, providing
them with the working capital they
need to create and innovate new prod-
ucts and new technologies.
This bipartisan legislation passed the
House, as we mentioned before, unani-
mously last Congress, and it removes a
restriction that has hindered the
growth of the SBIC program. It will
allow it to grow and support more
firms all across America, from Port-
land, Maine, to Portland, Oregon.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan legislation and yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, access to capital is the
lifeblood of every small business. The
SBIC program fills the gap between the
availability of venture capital and the
needs of small businesses in startup
and growth situations.
The SBIC program has long been an
important way of channeling capital to
leading-edge, high-growth companies.
In fact, some of the Nation’s most suc-
cessful corporations received early-
stage financing from SBICs. Without
it, they may not be the companies they
are today.
The key to the program’s success is
leveraging Federal funds to increase
the amount of private capital invested
in such promising startup companies.
With more than $24 billion of capital
under management, the SBIC program
has a proven track record of success.
Creating parity in the SBIC program
by raising the investment threshold
from 5 percent to 15 percent will result
in significant small business invest-
ment; and like we all know, providing
funds to small firms results in real
growth in our local communities.
H.R. 116 has bipartisan support, and
it is endorsed by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce. As such, I once again urge
my colleagues to support this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 116, the ‘‘Investing in
Main Street Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 116 amends the Small Business In-
vestment Act of 1958 to increase the amount
that certain banks and savings associations
may invest in small business investment com-
panies, subject to the approval of the appro-
priate Federal banking agency.
Texas has, for a historical fourth time, been
ranked by CNBC as the number one spot for
‘‘America’s Top States for Business.’’
WalletHub also recognized Texas as a small
business friendly state by ranking Texas as
the best state to start a business overall and
giving Texas first place in the business envi-
ronment category which looks at average
growth in number of small businesses, growth
of business revenues, five-year business sur-
vival rate, and job growth, amongst other cat-
egories.
Houston alone has almost 120,000 small
business.
This makes Houston ninth nationwide and
second statewide for total number of small
businesses.
These small businesses enjoy calling home
the 13th friendliest city in the nation for small
business owners.
Over 99 percent of the businesses in Hous-
ton are considered small.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:43 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.005 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H524 January 14, 2019
4.0 GPA is one of the many Houston small
business success stories.
Founded by Henry Keculah, Jr. in 2016, 4.0
GPA’s mission is to provide all students, re-
gardless of their socioeconomic background,
with the opportunity to attend an institution of
higher education.
Henry, Jr. was one of five 2018 Upstart
Award Finalist.
Upstart awards recognize African-American
entrepreneurs who run successful companies
and also give back to their communities.
H.R. 116 is common sense legislation that
supports small business like 4.0 GPA, and
even the Chamber of Commerce has written
in support of it.
I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting
H.R. 116.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 116.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
STIMULATING INNOVATION
THROUGH PROCUREMENT ACT
OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 246) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to require senior procurement
executives, procurement center rep-
resentatives, and the Office of Small
and Disadvantaged Business Utiliza-
tion to assist small business concerns
participating in the Small Business In-
novation Research Program and the
Small Business Technology Transfer
Program, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 246
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stimulating
Innovation through Procurement Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SENIOR PROCUREMENT
EXECUTIVE.
Section 9(e) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638(e)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (12)(B), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(2) in paragraph (13)(B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(13) the term ‘senior procurement execu-
tive’ means an official designated under sec-
tion 1702(c) of title 41, United States Code, as
the senior procurement executive of a Fed-
eral agency participating in a SBIR or STTR
program.’’.
SEC. 3. INCLUSION OF SENIOR PROCUREMENT
EXECUTIVES IN SBIR AND STTR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(b) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(10) to coordinate, where appropriate,
with the senior procurement executive of the
relevant Federal agency to assist small busi-
ness concerns participating in a SBIR or
STTR program with commercializing re-
search developed under such a program be-
fore such small business concern is awarded
a contract from such Federal agency.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 9(b)(3)
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(b)(3))
is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end.
SEC. 4. MODIFICATIONS RELATING TO PROCURE-
MENT CENTER REPRESENTATIVES
AND OTHER ACQUISITION PER-
SONNEL.
(a) SBIR AMENDMENT.—Section 9(j) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(j)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(4) MODIFICATIONS RELATING TO PROCURE-
MENT CENTER REPRESENTATIVES.—Upon the
enactment of this paragraph, the Adminis-
trator shall modify the policy directives
issued pursuant to this subsection to require
procurement center representatives (as de-
scribed in section 15(l)) to assist small busi-
ness concerns participating in the SBIR pro-
gram with researching solicitations for the
award of a Federal contract (particularly
with the Federal agency that has a funding
agreement with the concern) and to provide
technical assistance to such concerns to sub-
mit a bid for an award of a Federal contract.
The procurement center representatives
shall coordinate with the appropriate senior
procurement executive and the appropriate
Director of the Office of Small and Disadvan-
taged Business Utilization established pursu-
ant to section 15(k) for the agency letting
the contract.’’.
(b) STTR AMENDMENT.—Section 9(p)(2) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(p)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E)(ii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(G) procedures to ensure that procure-
ment center representatives (as described in
section 15(l))—
‘‘(i) assist small business concerns partici-
pating in the STTR program with research-
ing applicable solicitations for the award of
a Federal contract (particularly with the
Federal agency that has a funding agreement
with the concern);
‘‘(ii) provide technical assistance to such
concerns to submit a bid for an award of a
Federal contract; and
‘‘(iii) coordinate with the appropriate sen-
ior procurement executive and the appro-
priate Director of the Office of Small and
Disadvantaged Business Utilization estab-
lished pursuant to section 15(k) for the Fed-
eral agency letting the contract in providing
the assistance described in clause (i).’’.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENT TO DUTIES OF PROCURE-
MENT CENTER REPRESENTATIVES.
Section 15(l)(2) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 644(l)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as
subparagraph (L); and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(J) assist small business concerns partici-
pating in a SBIR or STTR program under
section 9 with researching applicable solici-
tations for the award of a Federal contract
to market the research developed by such
concern under such SBIR or STTR program;
‘‘(K) provide technical assistance to small
business concerns participating in a SBIR or
STTR program under section 9 to submit a
bid for an award of a Federal contract, in-
cluding coordination with the appropriate
senior procurement executive and the appro-
priate Director of the Office of Small and
Disadvantaged Business Utilization estab-
lished pursuant to subsection (k) for the
agency letting the contract; and’’.
SEC. 6. AMENDMENT TO THE DUTIES OF THE DI-
RECTOR OF SMALL AND DISADVAN-
TAGED BUSINESS UTILIZATION FOR
FEDERAL AGENCIES.
Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 644(k)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (19), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in paragraph (20), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(21) shall assist small business concerns
participating in a SBIR or STTR program
under section 9 with researching applicable
solicitations for the award of a Federal con-
tract (particularly with the Federal agency
that has a funding agreement, as defined
under section 9, with the concern) to market
the research developed by such concern
under such SBIR or STTR program; and
‘‘(22) shall provide technical assistance to
small business concerns participating in a
SBIR or STTR program under section 9 to
submit a bid for an award of a Federal con-
tract, including coordination with procure-
ment center representatives and the appro-
priate senior procurement executive for the
agency letting the contract.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
246, the Stimulating Innovation
Through Procurement Act of 2019.
For more than 30 years, the Small
Business Innovation Research and
Small Business Technology Transfer
programs, or SBIR and STTR programs
as we call them, have provided a crit-
ical source of funding to small busi-
nesses that engage in research and de-
velopment.
b 1615
The result is higher rates of business
formation and job creation, something
we can all be proud of.
For the U.S. economy, the SBIR and
STTR programs are important to em-
ployment in scientific and technical
fields. Initially, companies must hire
individuals to carry out the research
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.003 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H525
January 14, 2019
and development. If research is com-
mercialized, however, sustainable jobs
can be created as products are moved
to market.
This ingenuity is what makes Amer-
ica a global economic powerhouse.
Since its establishment, these pro-
grams have helped launch tens of thou-
sands of successful research projects in
a wide variety of industries. Yet, small,
high-growth firms often face a dis-
connect when attempting to transfer
their SBIR technologies to precision
programs.
Today’s measure, H.R. 246, bridges
this gap and aids small business con-
cerns in commercializing their tech-
nology when obtaining government
contracts. Statutorily amending the
role of acquisition personnel to assist
companies in the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams levels the playing field for inno-
vative businesses competing in the
Federal marketplace.
Closing this gap doesn’t just help our
government secure the best tech-
nologies and ideas; it grows our local
communities where many small SBIR-
and STTR-funded firms operate.
I applaud the bipartisanship of Ms.
FINKENAUER, a freshman Member of
Congress, and Mr. CURTIS in their ef-
forts to increase participation of small,
innovative companies within the Fed-
eral marketplace by guaranteeing
them the same assistance other small
firms receive from contracting officers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
246, the Stimulating Innovation
through Procurement Act of 2019.
I would like to thank the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. CURTIS) and the gentle-
woman from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER) for
their efforts on this important legisla-
tion.
This bill continues the committee’s
longstanding emphasis on the commer-
cialization of technologies developed in
the Small Business Innovation Re-
search, or SBIR program.
The bill does this by incorporating
acquisition personnel into the SBIR
and the Small Business Technology
Transfer, STTR, programs where ap-
propriate. Under the bill, procurement
center representatives, or PCRs, would
be required to coordinate and collabo-
rate with Federal agency small busi-
ness advocates and are responsible for
providing small businesses with tech-
nical assistance as they navigate the
bidding process. Doing so would give
small firms a better understanding of
the government contracting process
and increases their chances of success.
The SBIR and STTR programs are
often the first place innovative, small
firms look in order to contract with
the Federal Government. Unfortu-
nately, it is often difficult for a firm,
particularly a new firm, to understand
the ins and outs of working with the
Federal Government. It can be quite
complex.
Providing a new avenue for coun-
seling by utilizing the national net-
work of PCRs will help pioneering,
small firms better prepare their pro-
posals for the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER), the au-
thor of this legislation.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of my bill, H.R. 246, the
Stimulating Innovation through Pro-
curement Act of 2019.
My bill helps small businesses com-
pete for government contracts and re-
search grants and gives them the op-
portunity to grow and innovate.
I grew up in a small town in north-
east Iowa, and I am proud to represent
communities like mine in Congress.
The Iowans I know want to be able to
stay and build a life in the commu-
nities that raised them. I am proud to
introduce legislation that will give the
next generation of Iowans opportuni-
ties to innovate in our State.
Too often, small businesses, espe-
cially rural ones, get locked out of the
competition for government contracts
and grants. This bill ensures that agen-
cy procurement officers will be more
directly involved in this process, help-
ing small businesses pursue research
that lets them compete for these op-
portunities.
H.R. 246 requires procurement center
representatives and other contracting
officials to assist small businesses in
the Small Business Innovation Re-
search and Small Business Technology
Transfer programs. Making this a stat-
utory mandate levels the playing field
for our small businesses, ensuring they
won’t be at a disadvantage during the
bidding process.
It means that when a small business
owner in Marion or Manly, Iowa has a
great idea that will create jobs in our
communities, our government is actu-
ally making it easier, not harder, for
them to grow and innovate. When Con-
gress supports small businesses, it
strengthens communities like mine in
northeast Iowa.
I thank my colleague and cosponsor,
Congressman CURTIS, and I thank
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for her sup-
port and leadership of innovative small
businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Utah
(Mr. CURTIS), who is our chief sponsor
of this legislation.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ranking Member CHABOT. I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 246, the Stimulating Inno-
vation through Procurement Act of
2019. I am pleased to lead as an original
coauthor and thank Ms. FINKENAUER
for her collaboration and effort on this
important legislation.
Much of the country’s success can be
attributed to pioneering individuals
and small companies, folks who have
discovered a problem and developed an
efficient, cost-effective solution. Inno-
vation, research, and advancement in
technology are our major drivers in to-
day’s postmodern world, and it is crit-
ical that we continue promoting the
development of new and advanced tech-
nologies.
I am proud that in my home State of
Utah we foster a thriving tech hub and
innovation marketplace where the tech
industry grew last year faster than any
other State in the Nation. But there is
still more work to be done in Utah and
across the country.
This bill reinforces my commitment
to small business success by stimu-
lating technology innovation through
the Small Business Innovation Re-
search, or SBIR program.
Through adding critical acquisition
personnel into SBIR and Small Busi-
ness Technology Transfer programs,
this legislation will ensure these small
businesses have a voice in the procure-
ment process and can compete on a
level playing field and have a chance at
success. It adds zero cost to the tax-
payer.
This bill is a commonsense, forward-
leaning bill that protects Federal in-
vestment into innovation and tech-
nology research by small businesses
and helps these innovators succeed.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Utah again for his
leadership on this, and thank the gen-
tlewoman from Iowa as well, and, as al-
ways, thank the chairwoman, the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ).
This straightforward legislation di-
rects PCRs and senior procurement ex-
ecutives in agencies to assist small
businesses in the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams.
Such assistance could be in the form
of researching applicable solicitations,
providing technical assistance when
bidding for contracts, or coordinating
with appropriate agency procurement
officials.
The House passed identical legisla-
tion unanimously as part of a larger
package last Congress, and we rec-
ommend passage of this bill again this
year.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from Iowa (Ms.
FINKENAUER) and the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. CURTIS) for introducing to-
day’s bill to spur increased contracting
activity in the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams.
The SBIR program has helped thou-
sands of small, innovative firms with
good ideas to compete for Federal re-
search and development awards. Their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.009 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H526 January 14, 2019
success has a proven record in a diverse
range of fields, including: defense,
health, energy, and technology.
H.R. 246, the Stimulating Innovation
through Procurement Act of 2019, en-
ables more SBIR and STTR businesses
to reach their potential. It directs pro-
curement center representatives and
senior procurement executives in agen-
cies to assist small business concerns
in the SBIR and STTR programs, and
coordinates with appropriate agency
procurement officials.
This bill will open the Federal mar-
ketplace to more small, high-growth
companies through increased technical
assistance and advocacy, ensuring our
country remains a leader in innova-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 246.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ENCOURAGING SMALL BUSINESS
INNOVATION ACT
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 206) to amend the small busi-
ness laws to create certain require-
ments with respect to the SBIR and
STTR program, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 206
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Encouraging
Small Business Innovation Act’’.
SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF TESTING AND EVALUA-
TION IN THE DEFINITION OF RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
Section 9(e)(5) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 638(e)(5)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respec-
tively (and conforming the margins accord-
ingly);
(2) by striking ‘‘means any activity which
is’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘means—
‘‘(A) any activity which is—’’; and
(3) in clause (iii), as so redesignated, by
adding ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon at the end;
and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) any testing or evaluation in connec-
tion with such an activity;’’.
SEC. 3. INCLUSION OF SMALL BUSINESS INVEST-
MENT COMPANIES IN SBIR AND
STTR.
Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or private equity firm in-
vestment’’ each place such term appears and
inserting ‘‘private equity firm, or SBIC in-
vestment’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘or private equity firms’’
and inserting ‘‘private equity firms, or
SBICs’’;
(3) in subsection (e)—
(A) in paragraph (12)(B), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in paragraph (13)(B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(14) the term ‘SBIC’ means a small busi-
ness investment company as defined in sec-
tion 103 of the Small Business Investment
Act of 1958.’’; and
(4) in the heading for subsection (dd), by
striking ‘‘OR PRIVATE EQUITY FIRMS’’ and in-
serting ‘‘PRIVATE EQUITY FIRMS, OR SBICS’’.
SEC. 4. CALCULATION OF LEVERAGE OF SMALL
BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
THAT INVEST IN SBIR OR STTR PAR-
TICIPANTS.
Section 303(b)(2) of the Small Business In-
vestment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683(b)(2)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) INVESTMENTS IN SBIR AND STTR PAR-
TICIPANTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), in
calculating the outstanding leverage of a
company for purposes of subparagraph (A),
the Administrator shall exclude the amount
of any investment made in a SBIR or STTR
participant, if such investment is made in
the first fiscal year after the date of enact-
ment of this subparagraph or any fiscal year
thereafter by a company licensed during the
applicable fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(I) AMOUNT OF EXCLUSION.—The amount
excluded under clause (i) for a company shall
not exceed 33 percent of the private capital
of that company.
‘‘(II) MAXIMUM INVESTMENT.—A company
shall not make an investment in any one
SBIR or STTR participant in an amount
equal to more than 20 percent of the private
capital of that company.
‘‘(III) OTHER TERMS.—The exclusion of
amounts under clause (i) shall be subject to
such terms as the Administrator may impose
to ensure that there is no cost (as that term
is defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit
Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a)) with re-
spect to purchasing or guaranteeing any de-
benture involved.
‘‘(iii) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph,
the term ‘SBIR or STTR participant’ means
a small business concern that receives con-
tracts or grants pursuant to section 9 of the
Small Business Act.’’.
SEC. 5. ENCOURAGING PARTICIPATION IN THE
MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.
Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(tt) ENCOURAGING PARTICIPATION IN THE
MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.—The Adminis-
trator shall provide an increase to the past
performance rating of any small business
concern that has participated in the SBIR or
STTR program that serves as a mentor
under section 45 to a small business concern
that seeks to participate in the SBIR or
STTR program.’’.
SEC. 6. ANNUAL MEETING FOR FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES WITH A SBIR OR STTR PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9 of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638), as amended by
section 3, is further amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(uu) ANNUAL MEETING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The head of each Federal
agency required to have a program under
this section (or a designee) and the Adminis-
trator (or a designee) shall meet annually to
discuss methods—
‘‘(A) to improve the collection of data
under this section;
‘‘(B) to improve the reporting of data to
the Administrator under this section;
‘‘(C) to make the application processes for
programs under this section more efficient;
and
‘‘(D) to increase participation in the pro-
grams under this section.
‘‘(2) REPORTING.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which an annual meeting
required under paragraph (1) is held, the Ad-
ministrator shall submit to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of
the Senate, and the Committee on Small
Business and the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology of the House of Rep-
resentatives, a report on the findings of such
meeting and recommendations on how to im-
plement changes to programs under this sec-
tion.’’.
(b) FUNDING FOR ANNUAL MEETING.—Sec-
tion 9(mm)(1) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638(mm)(1)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (I), by striking the
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (J), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(K) the annual meeting required under
subsection (uu).’’.
SEC. 7. INCREASING PARTICIPATION OF UNDER-
SERVED POPULATIONS IN THE SBIR
AND STTR PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(mm)(2) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(mm)(2)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(2) OUTREACH AND TECHNICAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—A Federal agency participating in the
program under this subsection shall use a
portion of the funds authorized for uses
under paragraph (1) to carry out the policy
directive required under subsection (j)(2)(F)
and to increase the participation of States
with respect to which a low level of SBIR
awards have historically been awarded.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
9(mm)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
638(mm)(6)) is amended by striking ‘‘para-
graph (2)(A) and any use of the waiver au-
thority under paragraph (2)(B)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraph (2)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
206, the Encouraging Small Business
Innovation Act of 2019. For almost 40
years, our Nation has experienced in-
creased innovation and job creation
through the Small Business Innovation
Research program and the Small Busi-
ness Technology Transfer program.
As a direct result of these programs,
breakthroughs have been made in a
wide range of sectors, from agriculture,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.010 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H527
January 14, 2019
to energy, and most notably,
healthcare. Research conducted by
SBIR and STTR awardees has helped
address our country’s most important
technological and research-based chal-
lenges while generating tremendous
economic growth and employment op-
portunities.
These programs encourage small
firms, where much of today’s cutting-
edge ideas are born, to explore their po-
tential while also providing the incen-
tive to profit from its commercializa-
tion.
Yet, as with any program, improve-
ments can be made to further strength-
en the program and its impact on our
economy.
By incentivizing more experienced
SBIR and STTR firms to mentor newer
companies and rewarding mentors
through a past-performance rating in-
crease, Congressman ROUDA’s legisla-
tion, H.R. 206, positively promotes in-
tegrating these program participants
into the larger Federal marketplace.
Just as we are concerned with the
broader ability of SBIR and STTR
firms to compete more broadly, it is
important to ensure the participation
of all businesses within the program.
Just like with geography, when it
comes to demographics, it is important
that the SBIR and STTR are serving
all entrepreneurs.
This measure requires participating
agencies to use part of their SBIR allo-
cation to conduct outreach to minori-
ties and underrepresented States by re-
moving the waiver of this requirement
from the statute. Doing so, guarantees
that a wide range of ideas are provided
the opportunity to thrive.
b 1630
Finally, H.R. 206 requires an annual
summit of these agencies to share best
practices to improve data collection
and streamline processes across the
programs. As a result, I believe this
bill is crucial to modernizing the pro-
gram and preserving our Nation’s com-
petitiveness.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
206, the Encouraging Small Business
Innovation Act.
I want to commend Mr. ROUDA on his
work to improve the Small Business
Innovation Research program and the
Small Business Technology Transfer
program, or SBIR and STTR as they
are more commonly known.
These critical programs provide ex-
ceptionally innovative small firms
with the kick-start they need to de-
velop the next big thing and turn their
companies from small businesses into
large ones. These innovations have
saved lives on the battlefield, in the
hospital room, and made immeasurable
advancements in communication tech-
nology and countless other improve-
ments to technologies we all use on a
daily basis.
Among other things, this straight-
forward bill updates and harmonizes
the definition of research and develop-
ment in the Small Business Act, pro-
viding an avenue for more experienced
SBIR companies to mentor newer com-
panies, and improves oversight.
Furthermore, this bill encourages
collaboration and sharing of best prac-
tices among Federal agencies to en-
hance the efficacy of the SBIR and
STTR programs. Federal agencies
housing these programs would be re-
quired to meet annually to discuss po-
tential data collection and reporting
process improvements, ideas to in-
crease small business participation,
and will be required to update Congress
on the outcomes and recommendations
arising from these meetings.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA), who is the au-
thor of this bill.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 206, the Encouraging
Small Business Innovation Act.
The Small Business Innovation Re-
search program, or SBIR, and the
Small Business Technology Transfer
program, or STTR, were established to
spur innovation and job creation
throughout the country. Since their in-
ception, these programs have awarded
over $40 billion to small innovative
firms, including $34 million in Califor-
nia’s 48th District. Together, these pro-
grams are some of the Federal Govern-
ment’s largest technology development
programs.
For many research companies in my
district and around the country, these
two programs serve as a gateway to the
Federal contracting field. The contin-
ued success of these programs depends
on three primary factors:
First, the program must remain
highly competitive;
Second, applicants and awardees
must have access to financing of all
types, including venture capital;
Third, we must ensure these products
make it to the market.
But the lack of competitiveness and
diversity continue to raise questions,
with the participation of women-owned
and minority-owned firms in these pro-
grams declining.
According to the Small Business Ad-
ministration’s annual report for fiscal
year 2013, only 15 percent of total
award dollars went to women-owned
small businesses, and only 10 percent
to socially or economically disadvan-
taged small and HUBZone-certified
small businesses.
This bill addresses both issues by re-
quiring participating agencies to use
part of their SBIR allocation to con-
duct outreach to minorities and under-
represented States by removing the
waiver of this requirement from stat-
ute.
To address the need for outside fi-
nancing, this bill includes small busi-
ness investment companies in the SBIR
and STTR programs as possible inves-
tors and increases the capital levels
that can be invested by private inves-
tors.
Finally, H.R. 206 also provides an av-
enue for more experienced SBIR and
STTR companies to mentor newer com-
panies. It is clear that the SBIR and
STTR programs have promoted our
shared goal of fostering innovation, but
we must continue to provide vigilant
oversight of these programs to ensure
their maximum effectiveness.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter of support from the Small
Business Investor Alliance.
SMALL BUSINESS INVESTOR ALLIANCE,
January 14, 2019.
Hon. HARLEY ROUDA,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE ROUDA: Since 1958,
the Small Business Investor Alliance (SBIA)
has been the voice of Small Business Invest-
ment Companies (SBICs). We write in sup-
port of H.R. 206, the Encouraging Small
Business Innovation Act, which is being con-
sidered by the House of Representatives
today. The bill is a simple, modest improve-
ment to the Small Business Investment Act
of 1958 that would encourage more invest-
ment in job-creating American small busi-
nesses.
SBICs are highly-regulated private funds
that invest exclusively in domestic small
businesses, with at least 25% of their invest-
ments in even smaller enterprises. The near-
ly $28 billion SBIC debenture program is a
market-driven platform that serves an im-
portant public purpose of facilitating private
investment in domestic small businesses.
After raising private capital and successfully
navigating a rigorous licensing process, a li-
censed SBIC is permitted to access a line of
credit (leverage) to increase the amount of
capital to be invested in domestic small
businesses. Generally, the ratio of leverage
to private capital is a little less than 2:1,
with some strategies utilizing an even lower
leverage ratio. With the private capital in a
first-loss position, a modest leverage ratio,
and the benefits of the portfolio effect, the
program operates by law at zero subsidy, fur-
ther exhibiting effective protection for the
American taxpayer. As a testament to the
underlying structure of the SBIC program, it
is one of the few government programs that
was able to continue to operate at zero sub-
sidy through the Great Recession.
H.R. 206 seeks to encourage more invest-
ment in Small Business Innovation Research
(SBIR) and Small Business Technology
Transfer (STTR) companies. The stated mis-
sion of the SBIR and STTR programs is to
‘‘support scientific excellence and techno-
logical innovation through the investment of
Federal research funds in critical American
priorities to build a strong national econ-
omy.’’ Both programs seek to increase pri-
vate sector commercialization of innova-
tions arising out of federal research and de-
velopment. H.R. 206 would include SBICs in
SBIR and STTR and would allow SBICs to
exclude a percentage of their SBIR and
STTR investments from their leverage cal-
culation, with the goal of spurring more in-
vestment in technology and innovation.
H.R 206 would make thoughtful improve-
ments to the SBIC program and thereby help
domestic small businesses. SBIA thanks you
for your leadership on this legislation and
for your commitment to expanding economic
opportunity in America. We look forward to
working with you during the 116th Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.012 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H528 January 14, 2019
to continue strengthening the SBIC pro-
gram.
Sincerely,
BRETT PALMER,
President, Small Business Investor Alliance.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
I want to thank Chairwoman
VELÁZQUEZ for her support and leader-
ship of innovative small business. I
also want to thank Representative
ESPAILLAT for his work on this issue in
the last Congress, and I urge Members
to support this legislation.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, the SBIR and STTR
programs are often the first place
small innovative companies come to do
business with the Federal Government.
They are widely popular here on Cap-
itol Hill, in the administration, and in
the industrial base as well. They pro-
vide that initial kick-start of funding
for ideas that could change the world,
literally, for the better.
Mr. Speaker, the reforms contained
in H.R. 206 make it easier for those
ideas to become a reality. Therefore, I
urge my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from California (Mr. ROUDA)
for introducing today’s bill to increase
the assistance to SBIR and STTR
firms.
Since their inception, over $40 billion
in awards have been made, proving
their success as a funding source for
small innovative firms.
As we have done before, we must en-
sure the longevity of the program by
guaranteeing it reflects modern R&D
practices. It must also optimize par-
ticipation through mentorship incen-
tives and Phase 3 awards, in addition
to including small business investment
companies in the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams to stimulate investment.
This bill achieves this goal and guar-
antees the program meets the needs of
our next generation of SBIR and STTR
firms. H.R. 206 makes certain that the
program remains a catalyst for not
just innovation, but also the economic
empowerment and job creation that is
associated with these scientific ad-
vances.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the new Chair of the House Small Busi-
ness Committee Congresswoman NYDIA
VELÁZQUEZ for her leadership on this issue
and for working with me during the 115th Con-
gress when the Encouraging Small Business
Innovation Act first passed in the House. I also
want to congratulate Congressman ROUDA on
his success in moving this issue forward in the
116th Congress and thank him for his commit-
ment to spur innovation and address the issue
of underrepresentation of minorities in the
small business community.
The Encouraging Small Business Innovation
Act is thoughtful and constructive legislation.
Even in this modern day, we have heard from
many minority and women-owned small busi-
nesses that they continue to face institutional
challenges to growing their businesses. A
2013 report commissioned by the Small Busi-
ness Administration found that women-owned
small businesses do not have equal access to
capital from the private sector as compared to
their male peers. Furthermore, the Small Busi-
ness Administration’s own Office of Advocacy
has said that, ‘‘There are fewer minority-
owned businesses representing high-patenting
industries than in all industries.’’
Through the Small Business Innovation Re-
search (SBIR) and Small Business Tech-
nology Transfer (STTR) programs, the Small
Business Administration works with partners in
eleven federal agencies ranging from the De-
partment of Agriculture to NASA to support
small businesses, especially those that are
owned by members of identified disadvan-
taged communities. While these programs
have made some headway in encouraging in-
novation and entrepreneurship among women
and many minority communities, this vital in-
vestment can only be used for research and
development. There is no consideration given
for testing and evaluation, an extremely re-
source-heavy task for small businesses. What
good is a product or a method when you don’t
know if it works effectively or efficiently? The
Small Business Innovation Act addresses this
problem by including ‘‘testing’’ and ‘‘evalua-
tion’’ among the activities for which SBIR and
STTR applicants can seek funding. This will
empower more underrepresented entre-
preneurs to develop new products, expand
upon new ideas, and gain respected external
validators.
The Small Business Innovation Act also in-
cludes a number of other provisions that I be-
lieve will significantly help expand entrepre-
neurship in underserved communities. For ex-
ample, the bill incentivizes mentorship with
previous SBIR- and STTR-recipient companies
that have found success in the programs to
impart their knowledge and share their experi-
ence. It also welcomes investment by Small
Business Investment Companies into SBIR
and STTR projects, which will increase the in-
vestment of capital from more diverse streams
of funding. The bill also prioritizes data collec-
tion and reporting, ensuring that evaluation of
the program leads to increased efficiency and
additional participation. Finally, and most im-
portantly, the bill makes explicit commitments
to increasing the participation of underserved
populations in the small business community.
So again, I thank my colleague, Mr. ROUDA,
and Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for taking up this
important cause and I congratulate them both
on a job well done.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 206.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
JANUARY 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
January 14, 2019, at 3:19 p.m.:
That the Senate agreed to Relative to the
death of the Honorable John Chester Culver,
former United States Senator for the State
of Iowa S. Res. 16
Appointments:
Syria Study Group
United States Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics Control for the 116th Con-
gress
United States—China Economic and Secu-
rity Review Commission
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
EXPANDING CONTRACTING OPPOR-
TUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSI-
NESSES ACT OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 190) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to eliminate the inclusion of
option years in the award price for sole
source contracts, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 190
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Expanding
Contracting Opportunities for Small Busi-
nesses Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTING AU-
THORITY FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSI-
NESS CONCERNS.
(a) QUALIFIED HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS
CONCERNS.—Subparagraph (A) of section
31(b)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
657a(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(A) SOLE SOURCE CONTRACTS.—A con-
tracting officer may award sole source con-
tracts under this section to any qualified
HUBZone small business concern, if—
‘‘(i) the qualified HUBZone small business
concern is determined to be a responsible
contractor with respect to performance of
such contract opportunity;
‘‘(ii) the contracting officer does not have
a reasonable expectation that two or more
qualified HUBZone small business concerns
will submit offers for the contracting oppor-
tunity;
‘‘(iii) the anticipated award price of the
contract will not exceed—
‘‘(I) $7,000,000, in the case of a contract op-
portunity assigned a standard industrial
classification code for manufacturing; or
‘‘(II) $4,000,000, in the case of all other con-
tract opportunities; and
‘‘(iv) in the estimation of the contracting
officer, the contract award can be made at a
fair and reasonable price.’’.
(b) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN OWNED AND
CONTROLLED BY SERVICE-DISABLED VET-
ERANS.—Subsection (a) of section 36 of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657f) is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(a) SOLE SOURCE CONTRACTS.—In accord-
ance with this section, a contracting officer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.009 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H529
January 14, 2019
may award a sole source contract to any
small business concern owned and controlled
by service-disabled veterans if—
‘‘(1) such concern is determined to be a re-
sponsible contractor with respect to per-
formance of such contract opportunity;
‘‘(2) the contracting officer does not have a
reasonable expectation that two or more
small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by service-disabled veterans will sub-
mit offers for the contracting opportunity;
‘‘(3) the anticipated award price of the con-
tract will not exceed—
‘‘(A) $7,000,000, in the case of a contract op-
portunity assigned a standard industrial
classification code for manufacturing; or
‘‘(B) $4,000,000, in the case of any other con-
tract opportunity;
‘‘(4) in the estimation of the contracting
officer, the contract award can be made at a
fair and reasonable price;
‘‘(5) the contracting officer has notified the
Administration of the intent to make such
award and requested that the Administra-
tion determine the concern’s eligibility for
award; and
‘‘(6) the Administration has determined
that such concern is eligible for award.’’.
(c) CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY WOMEN.—Section
8(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
637(m)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (7) to read as
follows:
‘‘(7) AUTHORITY FOR SOLE SOURCE CON-
TRACTS FOR ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED
SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CON-
TROLLED BY WOMEN.—A contracting officer
may award a sole source contract under this
subsection to any small business concern
owned and controlled by women described in
paragraph (2)(A) and certified under para-
graph (2)(E) if—
‘‘(A) such concern is determined to be a re-
sponsible contractor with respect to per-
formance of the contract opportunity;
‘‘(B) the contracting officer does not have
a reasonable expectation that two or more
businesses described in paragraph (2)(A) will
submit offers;
‘‘(C) the anticipated award price of the
contract will not exceed—
‘‘(i) $7,000,000, in the case of a contract op-
portunity assigned a standard industrial
classification code for manufacturing; or
‘‘(ii) $4,000,000, in the case of any other con-
tract opportunity;
‘‘(D) in the estimation of the contracting
officer, the contract award can be made at a
fair and reasonable price;
‘‘(E) the contracting officer has notified
the Administration of the intent to make
such award and requested that the Adminis-
tration determine the concern’s eligibility
for award; and
‘‘(F) the Administration has determined
that such concern is eligible for award.’’; and
(2) by amending paragraph (8) to read as
follows:
‘‘(8) AUTHORITY FOR SOLE SOURCE CON-
TRACTS FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED
AND CONTROLLED BY WOMEN IN SUBSTANTIALLY
UNDERREPRESENTED INDUSTRIES.—A con-
tracting officer may award a sole source con-
tract under this subsection to any small
business concern owned and controlled by
women certified under paragraph (2)(E) that
is in an industry in which small business
concerns owned and controlled by women are
substantially underrepresented (as deter-
mined by the Administrator under paragraph
(3)) if—
‘‘(A) such concern is determined to be a re-
sponsible contractor with respect to per-
formance of the contract opportunity;
‘‘(B) the contracting officer does not have
a reasonable expectation that two or more
businesses in an industry that has received a
waiver under paragraph (3) will submit of-
fers;
‘‘(C) the anticipated award price of the
contract will not exceed—
‘‘(i) $7,000,000, in the case of a contract op-
portunity assigned a standard industrial
classification code for manufacturing; or
‘‘(ii) $4,000,000, in the case of any other con-
tract opportunity;
‘‘(D) in the estimation of the contracting
officer, the contract award can be made at a
fair and reasonable price;
‘‘(E) the contracting officer has notified
the Administration of the intent to make
such award and requested that the Adminis-
tration determine the concern’s eligibility
for award; and
‘‘(F) the Administration has determined
that such concern is eligible for award.’’.
(d) ELIMINATION OF THE INCLUSION OF OP-
TION YEARS IN THE AWARD PRICE FOR CON-
TRACTS.—Section 8 of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 637) is amended by striking ‘‘(in-
cluding options)’’ each place such term ap-
pears.
SEC. 3. SBA CERTIFICATION PROGRAM NOTIFICA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Small Business Administration shall notify
the Committee on Small Business of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of
the Senate when the Administrator has im-
plemented each of the following:
(1) A program to certify small business
concerns owned and controlled by women (as
defined in section 8(m) of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 637(m))).
(2) A program to certify small business
concerns owned and controlled by service-
disabled veterans (as defined in section
3(q)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
632(q))).
(b) ADDITIONAL NOTICE.—The Adminis-
trator of the Small Business Administration
shall submit a copy of a notification required
under subsection (a) to the Law Revision
Counsel of the House of Representatives so
that the Law Revision Counsel may execute
the amendments required under section 4.
SEC. 4. REMOVAL OF ELIGIBILITY DETERMINA-
TION UPON IMPLEMENTATION OF
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS.
Effective upon the notification described
under section 3, the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 8(m)—
(A) in paragraph (7)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by adding ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking the
semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
and
(iii) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (F);
and
(B) in paragraph (8)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by adding ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking the
semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
and
(iii) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (F);
and
(2) in section 36(a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by adding ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking the semi-
colon at the end and inserting a period; and
(C) by striking paragraphs (5) and (6).
SEC. 5. GAO REPORT.
(a) STUDY.—With respect to the procure-
ment programs of the Small Business Ad-
ministration for small business concerns
owned and controlled by women (as defined
in section 8(m) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 637(m))) and for small business con-
cerns owned and controlled by service-dis-
abled veterans (as defined in section 3(q)(1)
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q))),
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct an evaluation of the policies
and practices used by the Administration
and other Federal agencies to provide assur-
ances that contracting officers are properly
classifying sole source awards under those
programs in the Federal Procurement Data
System and that sole source contracts
awarded under those programs are being
awarded to eligible concerns.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the Small Business Administration im-
plements the certification programs de-
scribed under section 3, the Comptroller Gen-
eral shall issue a report to the Committee on
Small Business of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship of the Senate con-
taining the findings made in carrying out
the study required under subsection (a).
(c) SBA CONSIDERATION OF GAO REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Small Business Administration shall review
the report issued under subsection (b) and
take such actions as the Administrator may
determine appropriate to address any con-
cerns raised in such report and any rec-
ommendations contained in such report.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—After the review
described under paragraph (1), the Adminis-
trator shall issue a report to Congress—
(A) stating that no additional actions were
necessary to address any concerns or rec-
ommendations contained in the report; or
(B) describing the actions taken by the Ad-
ministrator to resolve such concerns or im-
plement such recommendations.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
190, the Expanding Contracting Oppor-
tunities for Small Businesses Act of
2019.
The Small Businesses Act sets forth
a governmentwide 23 percent goal of
Federal contracts that should be
awarded to small businesses. Each Fed-
eral agency is charged with setting its
own small business goals, which are to
reflect the maximum possible oppor-
tunity for small business within that
agency.
Regrettably, small firms face bar-
riers in securing Federal contracts. Ac-
cording to the SBA, small businesses
won $105.6 billion in contracts during
fiscal year 2016, representing 23.88 per-
cent of total Federal contract dollars.
That is why the Small Business Act
gives agencies the ability to limit, or
set aside, contracts for small busi-
nesses to bid and compete against one
another.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.008 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H530 January 14, 2019
The SBA administers several set-
asides that are designed to increase the
participation of several socioeconomic
categories, including the 8(a) program,
HUBZone program, women-owned, and
service-disabled veteran-owned small
business programs.
While most contracts are awarded
through competition, sole source con-
tracts also exist if certain criteria are
met. However, current sole source
awards have become complex and un-
derutilized in recent years. They do not
represent the changing nature of Fed-
eral contract awards and have become
outdated. H.R. 190 raises the dollar
amount of sole source awards to reflect
modern contract awards.
I applaud Mr. MARSHALL and his co-
sponsor, Mr. SCHNEIDER, for intro-
ducing this bill providing flexibility to
contracting officers when awarding
sole source contracts under SBA con-
tracting programs.
By promoting the use of sole source
contracts to small businesses, this bill
adds to the government’s pool of sup-
pliers. This results in higher quality
goods and increased job creation for
the economy, as these direct awards re-
quire the small business to do the ma-
jority of the work and not subcontract
out.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
190, the Expanding Contracting Oppor-
tunities for Small Businesses Act of
2019.
I want to commend the gentleman
from Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) and the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SCHNEI-
DER) for working in a cooperative and
bipartisan manner on this important
legislation.
The bill we are considering today
passed the House last September be-
cause it is both good for small busi-
nesses and good for the Federal Gov-
ernment. By raising the potential
amount of sole source contract awards,
this bill encourages Federal agency
contracting officers to do more work
with women-owned, service-disabled
veteran-owned, HUBZone, and socially
and economically disadvantaged small
businesses.
The bill will also strengthen the in-
tegrity of the sole source award process
by requiring the SBA to actively deter-
mine that a women-owned or service-
disabled veteran-owned small business
is qualified and eligible to receive the
award before it is made.
Finally, the bill tasks the Govern-
ment Accountability Office with as-
sessing Congress’ ability to oversee
proper spending through sole source
awards.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. SCHNEIDER), who is a co-
sponsor of the legislation.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 190, the Ex-
panding Contracting Opportunities for
Small Businesses Act of 2019. I am
proud to again introduce this bill with
my friend from Kansas (Mr. MAR-
SHALL).
As they did in the last Congress, I en-
courage my colleagues to join us in
passing this important bipartisan legis-
lation.
Women-owned businesses, companies
owned by service-disabled veterans,
and other types of small firms have
unique opportunities to work with the
Federal Government through sole
source contracting.
Unfortunately, regulations governing
these types of contracts, specifically
the maximum value amount of the con-
tract, have not kept pace with infla-
tion, and many small business owners
often won’t pursue these opportunities
due to their diminished return. Fur-
thermore, the law includes option
years towards the cap, reducing the
projected returns and lowering the ap-
peal of sole source contracts.
For these reasons, many eligible
small businesses overlook sole source
contracts as a quality opportunity to
do business with the Federal Govern-
ment. Our bill would bring the sole
source contracting requirements in
line with inflation and only apply base
years, not the option years, to a con-
tract’s cap.
Additionally, programs such as sole
source contracting currently depend on
small businesses certifying their own
eligibility. It is important that we bet-
ter ensure the integrity of these pro-
grams.
H.R. 190 protects these programs
through a process whereby the Small
Business Administration would con-
firm eligibility of a participating com-
pany. Sole source contractors should
present a real opportunity for eligible
small businesses. Our legislation would
make these contracts more competi-
tive, while enhancing how we ensure
they are awarded to eligible compa-
nies.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have in-
troduced this bipartisan legislation
with Dr. MARSHALL to help small busi-
nesses, and I urge my colleagues to
support its adoption.
b 1645
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Kansas
(Mr. MARSHALL), one of the chief spon-
sors of the legislation.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to support
H.R. 190, the Expanding Contracting
Opportunities for Small Businesses Act
of 2019.
Small business sole source con-
tracting can be a valuable tool for both
Federal agencies and small businesses.
However, our Federal procurement
processes are rapidly changing, and the
sole source authority provided by the
Small Business Act has not kept up
with these changes. By adjusting the
dollar amount thresholds for these con-
tracts, this bill will increase the oppor-
tunities available to certain small
businesses utilizing the Federal pro-
curement process.
While it is critical that agencies
maximize opportunities to small busi-
nesses, it is equally important that
they have clear guidelines to guarantee
only eligible and qualified firms re-
ceive the awards. This bill will apply
new oversight procedure that requires
agencies to coordinate with the SBA to
ensure only eligible candidates are
awarded a sole source contract.
I am proud of this legislation and its
mission to promote small business
growth, strengthen oversight, and
incentivize Federal agencies to work
with small businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank my
colleague Congressman SCHNEIDER for
teaming up with us on this bill, and I
encourage my colleagues to support
this bipartisan bill as well.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close. I have no further speak-
ers.
Mr. Speaker, again, I want to thank
Dr. MARSHALL as well as Mr. SCHNEIDER
for their work and their leadership on
this important legislation.
This bill brings the dollar amount of
sole source awards in line with the size
of current contracts and strengthens
oversight by instituting a new eligi-
bility determination check by the SBA
before sole source contracts are award-
ed.
Therefore, I would urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Kansas as well as the
gentleman from Illinois for introducing
this important legislation to provide
flexibility to contracting officers when
awarding sole source contracts.
H.R. 190 promotes the use of sole
source contracts to small business con-
cerns through the SBA contracting
programs by raising the dollar thresh-
old of these contract types to account
for inflation.
It promotes and preserves a strong,
competitive marketplace for our Fed-
eral agencies while also strengthening
the ability of women, service-disabled
veterans, and socioeconomic businesses
to participate with the single largest
purchaser of goods and services in the
world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 190.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:46 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.017 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H531
January 14, 2019
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
TANF EXTENSION ACT OF 2019
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 430) to extend
the program of block grants to States
for temporary assistance for needy
families and related programs through
June 30, 2019.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 430
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘TANF Ex-
tension Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSIST-
ANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES PRO-
GRAM AND RELATED PROGRAMS
THROUGH JUNE 30, 2019.
Activities authorized by part A of title IV
and section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act
shall continue through June 30, 2019, in the
manner authorized for fiscal year 2018, and
out of any money in the Treasury of the
United States not otherwise appropriated,
there are hereby appropriated such sums as
may be necessary for such purpose.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. JUDY CHU) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. SMITH) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
430, the TANF Extension Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation would ex-
tend the Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families program, known as
TANF, and the Child Care Entitlement
to States, or CCES, through June 30,
2019.
Due to the stalemate in budget nego-
tiations, TANF and CCES funding
lapsed at the end of 2018. Enacting this
legislation will allow the Department
of Health and Human Services to send
States, Tribes, and territories TANF
and CCES grants for the second quarter
of the fiscal year, which are now late,
and to make on-time payments to
States for the third quarter.
States depend on Federal TANF and
childcare funding to help level the
playing field for struggling parents try-
ing to work and support their families.
These grants help pay for important
programs such as childcare, transpor-
tation, and job training. Funds are also
used to help cover basic necessities
like food, housing, and diapers.
Right now, our failure to pay for
what was promised is hurting State
budgets, and pretty soon it will begin
to affect family budgets as well.
CalWORKs, as my home State of
California calls its TANF program, pro-
vides help to over 50 percent of poor
children in California, which is over 1
million children, but California has a
very small reserve of unspent Federal
TANF funds to cover the Federal lapse
in payment.
Our reserve is about the level of Fed-
eral funding the State will use in just
over 2 weeks of operating CalWORKs.
California’s counties are currently
implementing the changes to
CalWORKs that we hope will make it
even more effective in stabilizing fami-
lies and lifting them out of poverty.
Disrupted Federal funding would make
achieving that goal much harder.
We need to do far more to help chil-
dren and families, and States need
more stability and certainty to operate
their programs. This is why the first
bill that was passed in this new Con-
gress to reopen the government in-
cluded provisions to extend TANF and
childcare for 2 years.
This bill would also have provided
Congress with new data on beneficiary
sanctions, employment, and poverty
outcomes. Unfortunately, the Senate
has refused to take up that bill, leaving
our government in a partial shutdown
and causing Federal funds for TANF
and CCES to lapse, as well as payments
to the States.
In the meantime, as the two Cham-
bers continue discussions, this legisla-
tion will allow us to quickly restore
payments and ensure that families who
rely on TANF and childcare assistance
are not collateral damage in the Trump
shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
430, the TANF Extension Act of 2019,
which will end the lapse in the TANF
program.
For my home State of Missouri, and
specifically my district, temporary as-
sistance is a vital lifeline of resources
for families. I represent one of the
most economically distressed regions
in the country and the poorest congres-
sional district in Missouri. In my
State, more than 20,000 people and
nearly 10,000 families currently rely on
TANF.
Mr. Speaker, we need to reauthorize
this program. Since TANF was created
in 1996, funding for the program had
never lapsed like this, until now. Fed-
eral funding of TANF has now lapsed
for 2 full weeks.
TANF has never been tied to a border
security debate before, and it shouldn’t
be now. Mr. Speaker, 20,000 people in
Missouri need TANF for a hand up to
get out of poverty and back to work.
Tax reform created a roaring econ-
omy, but our job is not done. Ameri-
cans are no longer asking ‘‘Where are
the jobs?’’ Instead, employers are ask-
ing ‘‘Where are the workers?’’
When I meet with farmers and small
business owners in southern Missouri,
they tell me they desperately need
more workers.
We have an economy that is built for
growth, but millions of Americans are
on the sidelines. That is why we need
the Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families program to refocus on the
outcome of work.
I hope that, during the 6-month ex-
tension provided by this bill, my
friends on the other side of the aisle
will work with us to improve the focus
of TANF on outcomes so we can stop
only measuring the process. Let’s work
together to build on the efforts from
last Congress so we can help families
become self-sufficient through work.
There is pride in work, and a job is
the best way out of poverty. When indi-
viduals and parents work full-time, the
poverty rate drops to just 3 percent.
American taxpayers contribute bil-
lions of dollars every year to support
those who are in need. It is our respon-
sibility to ensure taxpayer dollars are
being used in the most effective way
possible. That is why we must reau-
thorize this program immediately and
why I have pushed for reforms.
House Republicans want every person
on TANF who is work eligible to have
an individual plan for how to get back
into the workforce. The new goal isn’t
to get someone into a job for 2 weeks.
The new goal is to get them into a job
and keep them there so they can start
their career and build a better life.
That means we want to surround
Americans with more support to allow
them to build their lives, like childcare
and transportation. That is what we
will continue to push for as we work on
a longer extension.
What has become clear is that we can
do a lot better to address the needs of
those struggling to get ahead. With
this bill, we renew the program and set
the stage to make additional reforms
we know are needed to expand the op-
portunity so that everyone can benefit
from strong economic growth.
Reforming TANF to improve the
lives of more American families must
be our priority, and I look forward to
working with my colleagues to com-
plete this reauthorization.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R.
430, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE),
an incredible advocate for those in
need.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.019 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H532 January 14, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my col-
league from Missouri in asking my col-
leagues to support H.R. 430 and to vote
‘‘yes’’ on this legislation.
Now, this is just a short-term, 6-
month extension of the Temporary As-
sistance for Needy Families program
because we could not sign off on the ne-
gotiated 2-year extension from the om-
nibus. Therefore, the program has
lapsed, and it is imperative that we
move this legislation quickly, get it
cleared through the House, sent over to
the Senate, and signed into law.
Needy Americans are relying on us to
do this. There are several States that
have absolutely no TANF dollars, zero
carryover funds to insulate against the
prospect that this reckless shutdown
will persist and impact our most vul-
nerable citizens.
While my State is not one of the 23
States that have less than one quarter
of Federal TANF funding in reserve,
our reserve is not gigantic. At the cur-
rent spend-down rate of funds in Wis-
consin, we are projecting that these
funds will only last until early May, so
this is of some urgency.
Just let me remind you, Mr. Speaker,
about the importance of extending this
program. This bill will allow HHS to
send States, Tribes, and territories
overdue funds that they depend upon to
help level the playing field for strug-
gling parents trying to work and to
support their families, tools like
childcare assistance, transportation,
job training, money for basic needs,
and services like food and diapers.
I want to remind you, Mr. Speaker,
that three-fourths of current TANF re-
cipients are children, usually living in
poverty with their parents or grand-
parents.
Mr. Speaker, as a former welfare re-
cipient who rose out of poverty with
the help of cash assistance, SNAP, and
higher education, I understand how
critically necessary it is for Americans
to have access to our Nation’s safety
net known as TANF.
Mr. Speaker, I will never forget the
spring of 1996, when Wisconsin Gov-
ernor Tommy G. Thompson decided to
end welfare as we knew it.
b 1700
I was a State senator at the time. I
stood on the floor and filibustered until
the wee hours of the morning with 100
amendments. Then in the fall of 1996—
it was a gigantic error of judgment, in
my estimation—Congress, on a bipar-
tisan basis, followed Governor Thomp-
son’s lead and replaced Aid to Families
with Dependent Children with TANF, a
program that turned into a block
grant, having absolutely no connection
with people’s ability to get work.
It imposed work requirements,
whether there was any viable work
there or not. It limited educational op-
portunity for women, thus creating a
permanent underclass of workers. It
does not provide promised childcare
and training, the very things that are
most helpful for helping people get em-
ployed.
While this proposal has been adopted
by Congress and signed into law, I have
known, since 1996, that I would spend
the rest of my career trying to right-
size this program and make sure that
the program not only met people’s
basic survival-level needs but actually
worked toward helping people lift out
of poverty.
I am looking forward to this 116th
Congress, when we can reenvision wel-
fare reform, because this imperfect
program needs to continue to assist
struggling families to meet those basic
needs. Forty-three million Americans
currently live in poverty and some in
extreme poverty.
I remind the Speaker that our Nation
is only as strong as its most vulnerable
population. Instead of criminalizing
welfare recipients and creating more
barriers for the poor, we must help lift
them up so that they, too, can escape
poverty, join the economy, and add to
our tax base.
Let’s pass this bill, and let’s use the
next 6 months provided by this legisla-
tion to work together to enact long-
overdue changes to TANF that will re-
store childcare, incentivize education,
and move away from punitive time
limits.
I ask my colleagues to vote for H.R.
430, and then I urge them to join me in
reenvisioning the program.
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Nebraska (Mr. SMITH).
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, it is unfortunate we are here today,
actually, but I do intend to support
this short-term TANF extension.
I think it is useful to understand how
we got here, because it certainly in-
forms where we should be going. While
the economy is expanding at greater
than 3 percent, and the unemployment
rate is now below 4 percent, we know
not everyone is benefiting.
There are an estimated 67 million
working-age American men missing
from the labor force and 51⁄2 million
youth not in school or not working.
This, combined with a generation of re-
tiring workers, has left employers des-
perate to fill open jobs.
Our committee held a series of hear-
ings last spring to learn how Congress
can help close the jobs gap, the dif-
ference between what employers need
to keep the economy growing and the
number of workers in the labor force.
We heard from employers across the
country and across industries—tech-
nology in Colorado, manufacturing in
Indiana and Ohio, auto plants in Michi-
gan, homebuilders in Arizona, and the
aerospace industry in Kansas. They all
expressed the same message: We are
hiring, and if you are not already pro-
ficient, we will pay you while you learn
to do the work.
In my own district, the need for
workers is a common theme among em-
ployers. One employer I spoke with re-
cently, whose facility is largely auto-
mated, told me his biggest impediment
to growth is a lack of people to run and
operate the machinery.
In addition to the needs of employers
and our economy, we also heard about
the dignity of work from the individ-
uals reconnected to the workforce,
whether recently out of poverty or
even prison. We heard how these men
and women were better able to provide
for their families and engage with their
communities because of the social and
monetary support their efforts to ad-
vance in the workforce provided. We
want everyone to have that oppor-
tunity.
TANF has an important role to play
in addressing the labor shortage, and
changes are needed to fit the program
to today’s economy. More than 20 years
after TANF was created, the program
is not living up to expectations, and
many States have lost sight of what it
was intended to do: provide short-term
support while people get back into the
workforce.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the work
we did in the House last year. We held
seven hearings, including a legislative
hearing, and we marked up legislation
aimed at improving the program. Many
of the proposals in our bill, the JOBS
for Success Act, were supported by
both parties’ witnesses as well: one-on-
one casework; measuring outcomes; re-
focusing the program on those most in
need of assistance; and ensuring States
could use their resources to both help
people get to work, and, just as impor-
tantly, stay in the workforce and suc-
ceed.
Unfortunately, no one in the Senate
took action on TANF until late last
year. When they finally did deliver a
proposal, it merely doubled down on, or
attempted to paper over, the ongoing
problems of TANF, which discourage
States from helping their beneficiaries,
rather than making a serious effort to
help reconnect the population most in
need.
Important progress has been made,
both since 1996 and in the past year,
but we are not done. I encourage my
colleagues to support this extension
and to continue working to refocus
TANF to improve the lives of millions
of American families.
More importantly, once this bill is
signed, I encourage everyone, House
and Senate, to come together and work
with us to achieve solutions that help
to connect Americans on the sidelines
of the economy with the employers
who desperately need them and to stay
in the workforce long term.
We all know a check from the gov-
ernment is not the way out of poverty.
Getting into and advancing in the
workforce is.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Indiana (Mrs. WALORSKI).
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 430, the TANF
Extension Act of 2019, which extends
the authorization of the Temporary As-
sistance for Needy Families, TANF,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.021 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H533
January 14, 2019
program through June 30, while we fin-
ish up our work on a long-term exten-
sion.
Our safety net is essential to helping
people who fall on hard times get back
up on their feet, but, too often, it be-
comes a web that traps people in the
cycle of poverty. One of the keys to
breaking that cycle is human inter-
action, rather than treating people and
recipients like another number on a
government spreadsheet.
It takes people on the front lines of
the fight against poverty to make sure
we are looking at the root causes of the
problem and actually doing something
to help people across the country build
out and up on the economic ladder out
of poverty. Those in the trenches fight-
ing poverty need the flexibility to de-
velop innovative solutions tailored to
local needs that will empower individ-
uals to move to work and to achieve
the American Dream.
Over these next couple of months, we
have a great opportunity to work to-
gether on a long-term extension of
TANF that makes commonsense re-
forms to the program to ensure no one
gets left behind on the sidelines.
Right now, the status quo is not
working. But by focusing on workforce
development, measuring work out-
comes, and requiring States to engage
with recipients at an individual level,
we can and we will move people out of
poverty, off TANF, and onto the road
to success.
I thank Chairman NEAL and Ranking
Member BRADY for their work on this
issue. I look forward to working with
them and my other colleagues on the
Ways and Means Committee on a
multiyear TANF extension.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, as you have heard
today, there is more that can be and
should be done to address the needs of
those struggling to get ahead. With
this bill, we secure the additional time
to reform and make the changes we
know are needed to expand opportunity
and help more families move ahead.
We have made considerable progress
identifying the challenges and the solu-
tions, but now we need to finish our
work. Let’s pass this extension and
work together to complete this reau-
thorization for the people we serve.
Again, I urge support of H.R. 430, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to
support this simple bipartisan legisla-
tion to allow us to meet our commit-
ments to State governments and to
families in need across this country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to voice my support for H.R. 430,
the‘‘TANF Extension Act of 2019,’’ which ex-
tends the Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families program and related programs.
The bill authorizes activities outlined in part
A of title IV and section 1108(b) of the Social
Security Act to continue through June 30,
2019, in the manner authorized for fiscal year
2018.
This extension is necessary so society’s
most vulnerable do not fall through the cracks.
The Temporary Assistance for Needy Fami-
lies (TANF) program provides critical funding
to states’ anti-poverty efforts.
It helps ensure that families in poverty with
children can meet their children’s basic needs.
The TANF program, which is time limited,
assists families with children when the parents
or other responsible relatives cannot provide
for the family’s basic needs.
The Federal government provides grants to
States to run the TANF program.
These State TANF programs are designed
to accomplish four goals:
To provide assistance to needy families so
that children may be cared for in their own
homes or in the homes of relatives;
To end the dependency of needy parents on
government benefits by promoting job prepa-
ration, work, and marriage;
To prevent and reduce the incidence of out-
of-wedlock pregnancies and establish annual
numerical goals for preventing and reducing
the incidence of these pregnancies; and
To encourage the formation and mainte-
nance of two-parent families.
States have broad flexibility to carry out
their programs.
The States, not the Federal government, de-
cide on the design of the program, the type
and amount of assistance payments, the
range of other services to be provided, and
the rules for determining who is eligible for
benefits.
These social safety net programs provide
necessary government assistance to help
Americans families maintain a basic standard
of living, and are a safety net for the poorest
of the poor.
Millions of Americans, despite working two
jobs, depend on these programs just to keep
food on the table and a roof over their heads
for their families.
In addition, the vast majority of full-time
workers live paycheck to paycheck.
In fact, 70 percent of Americans rely on at
least one means tested federal program
throughout their lives.
America, one of the richest countries in the
world, should be able to help families caught
in, to use the celebrated LBJ biographer Rob-
ert Caro’s famous phrase, the ‘‘tentacles of
circumstance.’’
However, we have an Administration that is
sensitive to the plight of every day Americans.
This Administration seeks to implement an
agenda that reveals a patently racist and inac-
curate portrayal of poor people as lazy ‘‘Wel-
fare Queens’’ who would rather depend on the
government than pull themselves up by their
bootstraps, but nothing could be further from
the reality that millions of Americans face.
Mr. Speaker, the President should know that
it is unreasonable and it is cruel to expect the
poorest people to pull themselves up by their
bootstraps when they do not have boots.
Our nation’s social safety net programs al-
ready fail to help all of the families in need:
Only 1 in 4 poor families with children re-
ceive TANF;
The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram (SNAP) only provides $1.40/per meal;
and
Housing assistance reaches just 1 in 5 eligi-
ble families.
That is because the federal government has
failed to raise the minimum wage in almost a
decade, so even if you work a full-time min-
imum wage job, you are still living in poverty.
Members of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus are here to tell the American people, do
not be fooled.
Donald Trump says this is about a ‘‘poverty
trap,’’ but the real trap is not raising the min-
imum wage.
Employers should be highly motivated to
pay their employees a fair amount so that
every American can enjoy the opportunity to
live with dignity, with proper nutrition and prop-
er health care.
A salary that is not commensurate with the
current cost of living prevents people from en-
joying life with dignity, and that is NOT what
the American dream is about.
The President opposes increasing the min-
imum wage and eliminating labor protections
for middle and lower income workers in the Af-
rican American community.
Mr. Speaker, raising the minimum wage to
just $12 per hour would save $53 billion in
SNAP benefits alone.
Wage gaps are larger today than they were
in 1979.
For example, African American men’s aver-
age hourly wages were 22.2 percent lower
than those of white men in 1979 and declined
to 31 percent lower by 2015.
Young African American women have been
hardest hit since 2000.
Average wealth for white families is seven
times higher than average wealth for African
American families.
Worse still, median white wealth (wealth for
the family in the exact middle of the overall
distribution) is twelve times higher than me-
dian African American wealth.
Wage gaps are growing primarily because
of discrimination and racial differences in skills
and worker characteristics.
Declining unionization has also had a role in
the growing black-white wage gap, particularly
for men newly joining the workforce.
African Americans have been disproportion-
ately affected by the growing gap between pay
and productivity.
Not only are the President’s policies divisive
along racial and cultural lines, they also serve
to further increase economic inequality due to
their clear design in favor of the wealthiest
among us at the expense of everyone else.
Trump’s billionaire tax heist robs the U.S.
Treasury of $1.5 trillion in resources that could
be invested in economic growth in under-
served communities.
The President has proposed doubling down
on the war on drugs, which drains the African
American labor pool.
The President has taken every opportunity
to harm health care for African-Americans
from sabotaging the American Care Act to
ending Medicaid as we know it.
Trump also wants you to believe that he
wants a bipartisan infrastructure plan.
Do not be fooled.
Trump’s review of ‘‘welfare programs’’ is an
immoral attempt to gut the programs that pro-
vide a basic standard of living for Americans
struggling to make ends meet, all to pay for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.023 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H534 January 14, 2019
massive tax cuts to himself and the richest 1
percent.
Instead, he should raise wages and invest
in job training programs to prepare Americans
for the work of the future.
Mr. Speaker, our nation still has a long way
to go before we achieve economic equality for
all its citizens.
The President and Congressional Repub-
licans should work with Democrats to put
more money in the pockets of hardworking
Americans.
At the end of the day, our constituents
should be able to support their children with
one full-time job.
Ultimately, we need to give families the
tools they need to rise out of poverty, not un-
dercut programs that keep them afloat.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 430.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1832
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. SIRES) at 6 o’clock and 32
minutes p.m.
f
INVESTING IN MAIN STREET ACT
OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 116) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Investment Act of 1958 to increase
the amount that certain banks and
savings associations may invest in
small business investment companies,
subject to the approval of the appro-
priate Federal banking agency, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 403, nays 2,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 30]
YEAS—403
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—2
Amash McClintock
NOT VOTING—28
Amodei
Baird
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Davis, Danny K.
Duncan
Gibbs
Golden
Gosar
Hastings
Holding
Huizenga
Johnson (SD)
Jones
Lewis
Lipinski
Loudermilk
Marino
Mast
Payne
Pingree
Quigley
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shimkus
Weber (TX)
Wilson (FL)
b 1901
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
END THIS SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to share a letter
I received from a constituent last
week. He writes:
‘‘Being out of work and not knowing
how many days or weeks it will take to
get back to work leaves me worried.
These days off are no fun. So please,
make them worthwhile by standing
firm against the stupid Trump wall.
‘‘This colossal waste of government
funds could be spent doing so many
worthwhile projects: fix the water in
Flint, Michigan; hire more people to
process the paperwork of people who
want to be citizens; give more people
access to healthcare.
‘‘If Democrats cave during this shut-
down, it will all be wasted.
‘‘We Federal workers are unhappy,
but we’ve been through this before. We
can stand the wait and the frustration.
What we cannot stand is the racism,
cruelty, and criminality of this admin-
istration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:45 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H14JA9.REC H14JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H535
January 14, 2019
‘‘We are with you. Please be with
us.’’
Mr. Speaker, my constituents are
ready to go back to work. They resent
having their livelihoods being used as
bargaining chips, and even in this shut-
down, they are very unhappy. They
just want to do their work, and they
are asking us to do ours.
f
COMMEMORATING MARTIN
LUTHER KING JR. DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, one week from today,
our Nation celebrates the legacy of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Tomorrow is
Dr. King’s birthday. He would be turn-
ing 90 if his life wasn’t violently cut
short in 1968.
Madam Speaker, it was November 3,
1983, when President Ronald Reagan
signed a bill to mark the third Monday
of every January as Martin Luther
King Jr. Day. The holiday officially
began 3 years later.
Born on January 15, 1929, in Atlanta,
Georgia, Dr. King was the son of a Bap-
tist minister. He went on to receive his
own doctoral degree in theology.
Dr. King was a powerful orator, and
his talents were on full display when he
delivered his famous ‘‘I Have a Dream’’
speech in 1963. 250,000 people gathered
outside the Lincoln Memorial to hear
his speech, which peacefully called for
the end of racism. It is still regarded as
one of the most influential moments in
American history.
Madam Speaker, I am thankful for
all that Dr. King did to advance the
civil rights of all Americans, and I am
honored to commemorate his life and
legacy.
f
SHUTDOWN STORIES
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, on Friday, several of my
Democratic colleagues and I met with
hardworking Americans who are living
with the consequences of the ongoing
Trump shutdown.
We met an FAA employee, working
without a paycheck, who has two kids
in college, and they need money for
books as the new semester begins.
We met a Customs and Border Patrol
employee who said his friends think he
is on vacation, but a vacation does not
include calling your mortgage lender
and your auto loan company to tell
them you may not make a payment. He
said he never expected to get rich as a
public servant, but he thought he
would be able to buy formula for his 5-
month-old daughter.
We met a National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration employee
who told us weather forecasts for the
Great Lakes will be impacted for
months, which will, in turn, impact
shipping.
We are on day 24 of the longest gov-
ernment shutdown in American his-
tory. Estimates say we are letting GDP
growth take a hit of $1.2 billion every
week.
The President has to stop holding the
health, safety, and paychecks of the
American people hostage and reopen
the government immediately, because
5,200 Federal workers in Michigan are
working without pay or are furloughed.
I guarantee you that every one of them
has a story like the ones I shared.
f
EUROPEAN UNION SANCTIONS
IRAN
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, as co-chair of the Eu-
ropean Union Caucus, I appreciate the
EU has imposed sanctions on Iran for
the first time in 3 years. Following the
numerous plots against Iranian opposi-
tion leaders in Europe, the EU added
two Iranians and a unit of the Iranian
intelligence services to its terror list.
Iran has used its diplomatic facilities
to plot attacks against its critics for
decades. France concluded that Iran
was behind a planned bombing attack
on the Iranian opposition rally group
in Paris last year. Germany arrested
and expelled a high-ranking diplomat
suspected of transporting explosives
over the summer. The list of plots is
endless, threatening European fami-
lies.
The new sanctions are a good start,
but more can and must be done. The
EU should work hand-in-hand with
America to hold Iran accountable for
its promotion of terrorism throughout
the world.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
b 1915
DENOUNCING THE WORDS OF
REPRESENTATIVE STEVE KING
(Mr. CLYBURN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to address what I call the
tale of two Kings, one a Member of this
body who wondered out loud to The
New York Times why the terms ‘‘white
nationalism’’ and ‘‘white supremacy’’
are offensive.
I would say to my colleague that the
terms are offensive because the con-
cepts are evil. And we have been coun-
seled by Edmund Burke that all that is
required for evil to triumph is for good
men to do nothing.
I have just introduced a resolution to
express this august body’s disapproval
of Mr. KING’s comments and condemna-
tion of white nationalism and white su-
premacy in all forms.
Today, I denounce the words of Rep-
resentative STEVE KING, and I do so in-
voking the words of another King, Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., who, if he had
been allowed to live, would be cele-
brating his 90th birthday tomorrow.
Dr. King counseled that: ‘‘We are
going to be made to repent, not just for
the hateful words and deeds of bad peo-
ple, but for the appalling silence of
good people.’’
Madam Speaker, I call on my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
join me in breaking the deafening si-
lence and letting our resounding con-
demnation be heard.
f
HONORING OFFICER NATALIE
CORONA
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, it is
with a heavy heart and great sadness
that I rise today to mourn the loss of
22-year-old Davis, California, police of-
ficer Natalie Corona, who was shot and
killed a few days ago after what
seemed to be a routine response to a
traffic accident.
The motive remains unclear, but
then what does it matter what the mo-
tive is? We have lost a beautiful, amaz-
ing young officer.
It comes just a few months after she
was pinned as a new officer by her fa-
ther, Merced Corona, who himself spent
26 years as a veteran of the Colusa
County Sheriff’s Office.
Young Natalie, after spending much
of her time volunteering with the po-
lice force in Colusa County, graduated
from the academy in July, an eager
rookie, ready to protect and serve her
community.
Even before joining the force herself,
she frequently posted on social media
to honor fallen officers and show sup-
port for the thin blue line.
Her police chief, Darren Pytel, had
these words to say: ‘‘She was just an
absolute star in the department and
someone that pretty much every de-
partment member looked to as a close
friend, a sister. . . . She just worked
like you can’t believe.’’
This is on the heels of Law Enforce-
ment Appreciation Day. We are losing
too many of our great officers in this
country and California as well, espe-
cially a vibrant, young lady like Nat-
alie Corona.
God bless her family and her mem-
ory.
f
BORDER WALL/AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROLLER
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, let’s
pay tribute to the thousands of Amer-
ica’s patriots going to work with no
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.027 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H536 January 14, 2019
pay. It is wrong for the President to
use his authority to harm our Repub-
lic. Public service employees hold our
country together.
Take this story shared by Micah
Maziar, an air traffic controller from
Toledo, Ohio, who told his account of a
new trainee struggling to make ends
meet. He is not being paid. After a full
day’s work, a full shift in a very stress-
filled job, the trainee reports to his
apartment complex to pick up trash as
part of a deal with his landlord to off-
set rent during this Trump shutdown.
This is unacceptable.
The Commander in Chief holds our
entire government hostage to his hare-
brained notion that you can stop drug
trafficking with a wall. The drug traf-
fickers must be laughing up a storm.
They already dig tunnels under the ex-
isting walls and fly over them, too.
To secure the border, our Nation
needs thorough inspection of cargo. We
need enhanced electronic surveillance
through drones. Most of all, we need a
President who understands you don’t
stop the drug trade by furloughing bor-
der agents without pay.
For the hundreds of thousands of
America’s hardworking Federal patri-
ots and for the American people whom
they serve, we must reopen the govern-
ment immediately.
f
CELEBRATING 200TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF UNIVERSITY OF CIN-
CINNATI
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise
this evening to celebrate the 200th an-
niversary of the University of Cin-
cinnati.
In 1819, roughly 70 students were en-
rolled in what was then called the Cin-
cinnati College. Today, nearly 46,000
students are enrolled at UC.
None other than Thomas Edison once
credited UC with being important to
the development of his education.
President William Howard Taft, who
later became Chief Justice of the U.S.
Supreme Court and is, by the way, the
only American to hold both those of-
fices, was educated at UC Law, as was
Nicholas Longworth IV, who went on
to represent Ohio’s First Congressional
District and later served as Speaker of
this very House.
On a personal note, my wife, Donna,
is a UC grad, as is our daughter, Erica,
who graduated from UC’s DAAP pro-
gram.
We are fortunate to have such a tre-
mendous, fine institution in our com-
munity.
Congratulations to the University of
Cincinnati for achieving this signifi-
cant milestone, and best of luck for an-
other 200 years.
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER
RESOLUTION RAISING A QUES-
TION OF THE PRIVILEGES OF
THE HOUSE
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, pursuant
to clause 2 of rule IX, I hereby give no-
tice of my intention to offer a question
of privileges of the House.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that the form of a resolution
appear in the RECORD at this point.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
ESCOBAR). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
The form of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
Whereas the United States has al-
ways been a proud multicultural Na-
tion;
Whereas since early in our history
our Nation has recognized the strength
that our diversity brings by making
our national motto E Pluribus Unum;
Whereas on July 13, 2006, on the floor
of the House of Representatives, com-
paring immigrants to livestock, Rep-
resentative STEVE KING of Iowa stated,
‘‘We could also electrify this wire with
the kind of current that would not kill
somebody, but it would simply be a dis-
couragement for them to be fooling
around with it. We do that with live-
stock all the time.’’;
Whereas on March 8, 2008, in an inter-
view with KICD Studios, Representa-
tive KING stated, ‘‘I don’t want to dis-
parage anyone because of their race,
their ethnicity, their name—whatever
their religion their father might have
been . . . I’ll just say this: When you
think about the optics of a Barack
Obama potentially getting elected
President of the United States—I
mean, what does this look like to the
rest of the world? What does it look
like to the world of Islam?’’;
Whereas on May 21, 2012, while speak-
ing with constituents in Pocahontas,
Iowa, Representative KING compared
vetting immigrants to choosing hunt-
ing dogs saying, ‘‘You want a good bird
dog? You want one that’s going to be
aggressive? Pick the one that’s the
friskiest.’’;
Whereas in July 2012, at a tele-town-
hall, on President Barack Obama’s
place of birth, Representative KING
stated, ‘‘It would have been awfully
hard to fraudulently file the birth no-
tice of Barack Obama being born in Ha-
waii and get that into our public li-
braries and that microfiche they keep
of all the newspapers published. That
doesn’t mean there aren’t some other
explanations on how they might’ve an-
nounced that by telegram from Kenya.
The list goes on. But drilling into that
now, even if we could get a definitive
answer and even if it turned out that
Barack Obama was conclusively not
born in America, I don’t think we could
get that case sold between now and No-
vember.’’;
Whereas on January 4, 2013, in a press
release announcing the introduction of
his bill, H.R. 140, Representative KING
stated, ‘‘The current practice of ex-
tending U.S. citizenship to hundreds of
thousands of ‘anchor babies’ must end
because it creates a magnet for illegal
immigration into our country. Now is
the time to ensure that the laws in this
country do not encourage law break-
ing.’’;
Whereas on July 24, 2014, in an inter-
view with Newsmax discussing undocu-
mented immigrants in the United
States, Representative KING stated,
‘‘For everyone who’s a valedictorian,
there’s another 100 out there who weigh
130 pounds—and they‘ve got calves the
size of cantaloupes because they’re
hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across
the desert.’’;
Whereas on July 20, 2016, in an inter-
view with The Washington Post, Rep-
resentative KING stated, ‘‘The idea of
multiculturalism, that every culture is
equal—that’s not objectively true.’’;
Whereas on July 18, 2016, in an ap-
pearance on MSNBC, Representative
KING stated, ‘‘Where did any other sub-
group of people contribute more to civ-
ilization [than White people]?’’;
Whereas on September 18, 2016, on
Twitter, Representative KING stated,
that ‘‘Cultural suicide by demographic
transformation must end.’’;
Whereas on March 12, 2017, on Twit-
ter, Representative KING shared a story
about far-right Dutch politician Geert
Wilders and added, ‘‘We can’t restore
our civilization with somebody else’s
babies.’’;
Whereas on March 13, 2017, on CNN,
Representative KING stated, ‘‘I’d like
to see an America that’s just so ho-
mogenous that we look a lot the same’’
and ‘‘There’s been this effort, we’re
going to have to replace that void with
somebody else’s babies. That’s the push
to bring in [so] much illegal immigra-
tion into America, living in enclaves,
refusing to assimilate into the Amer-
ican culture and civilization.’’;
Whereas on June 12, 2018, Representa-
tive KING retweeted Mark Collett, a
self-described ‘‘Nazi sympathizer’’;
Whereas on September 2, 2018, in an
interview with Unzensuriert, a publica-
tion linked to a fascist Austrian polit-
ical party, Representative KING stated,
‘‘What does this diversity bring that
we don’t already have? Mexican food,
Chinese food, those things—well, that’s
fine. But what does it bring that we
don’t have that is worth the price? We
have a lot of diversity within the U.S.
already.’’;
Whereas on January 10, 2019, in the
New York Times, Representative KING
stated ‘‘White nationalist, White su-
premacist, Western civilization—how
did that language become offensive?’’;
Whereas Representative KING’s state-
ments have drawn praise from known
White supremacists like former Ku
Klux Klan leader David Duke;
Whereas Representative KING dis-
honors not only immigrants but every
American with his racist and
xenophobic rhetoric; and
Whereas Representative KING has
failed to retract his statement and
apologize to the Members of the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.029 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H537
January 14, 2019
or Americans across the country: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) Representative STEVE KING of
Iowa, by his despicable conduct, has
dishonored himself and brought dis-
credit to the House and merits the cen-
sure of the House for the same;
(2) Representative STEVE KING of
Iowa be censured;
(3) Representative STEVE KING of
Iowa forthwith present himself in the
well of the House of Representatives
for the pronouncement of censure; and
(4) Representative STEVE KING of
Iowa be censured with the public read-
ing of this resolution by the Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
rule IX, a resolution offered from the
floor by a Member other than the ma-
jority leader or the minority leader as
a question of the privileges of the
House has immediate precedence only
at a time designated by the Chair with-
in 2 legislative days after the resolu-
tion is properly noticed.
Pending that designation, the form of
the resolution noticed by the gen-
tleman from Illinois will appear in the
RECORD at this point.
The Chair will not at this point de-
termine whether the resolution con-
stitutes a question of privilege. That
determination will be made at the time
designated for consideration of the res-
olution.
f
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO OFFER
RESOLUTION RAISING A QUES-
TION OF THE PRIVILEGES OF
THE HOUSE
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX, I rise to
give notice of my intent to raise a
question of the privileges of the House.
The form of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
House Resolution 40. Condemning
and censuring Representative STEVE
KING of Iowa.
Whereas, on January 10, 2019, in an
interview published by the New York
Times, Representative STEVE KING
asked, ‘‘White nationalist, white su-
premacist, Western civilization—how
did that language become offensive?
Why did I sit in classes teaching me
about the merits of our history and our
civilization?’’;
Whereas Representative KING’s com-
ments legitimize white supremacy and
white nationalism as acceptable in to-
day’s society;
Whereas Representative KING’s com-
ments are abhorrent to the founding
principles of our Nation and our rich
history of diversity and tolerance of
those whose backgrounds and beliefs
have made America the envy of the
world; and
Whereas Representative KING’s com-
ments reflect negatively on the House
of Representatives.
Now, therefore, be it resolved, that
One, Representative STEVE KING of
Iowa be censured;
Two, Representative STEVE KING
forthwith present himself in the well of
the House of Representatives for the
pronouncement of censure; and
Three, Representative STEVE KING be
censured with the public reading of
this resolution by the Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
rule IX, a resolution offered from the
floor by a Member other than the ma-
jority leader or the minority leader as
a question of the privileges of the
House has immediate precedence only
at a time designated by the Chair with-
in 2 legislative days after the resolu-
tion is properly noticed.
Pending that designation, the form of
the resolution noticed by the gen-
tleman from Ohio will appear in the
RECORD at this point.
The Chair will not at this point de-
termine whether the resolution con-
stitutes a question of privilege. That
determination will be made at the time
designated for consideration of the res-
olution.
f
MR. PRESIDENT, OPEN THE
GOVERNMENT
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
as I entered Bush Intercontinental Air-
port today, terminal B was shut down,
shut down because, of course, we do not
have enough TSA officers, as the ter-
minals were shut down in Miami.
I understand the circumstances and
the difficulties of these working people
in this crisis of no paycheck and no op-
portunity to pay their bills.
At the same time, a headline in our
local newspaper, ‘‘Coast Guard families
left ‘in a fog,’ ’’—families who have lit-
tle babies with medical conditions, who
cannot pay their bills. The reason, of
course, is the Coast Guard comes under
Homeland Security.
And a President who has the audac-
ity to say they can adjust, let them ad-
just, where is the heart? Where is the
recognition that we are jeopardizing
our skies with air traffic controllers
who are overworked and working over-
time with no pay, TSA officers? I came
home on Friday and gathered with
those.
What about a Federal employee cou-
ple who has indicated that they have
no ability to pay their bills and are
taking money from their son’s scholar-
ship fund?
Mr. President, open the government.
Finally, let me say to Mr. KING, it is
shameful, your words, and I would offer
that I join all of my colleagues in seek-
ing censure.
f
CELEBRATING SCHOOL CHOICE
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, this week, I am delighted to
celebrate the promise of school choice
alongside thousands of teachers, stu-
dents, and their families.
Every student deserves an excellent
education, and school choice empowers
parents to choose the right education
for their children. Through school
choice, all students have increased ac-
cess to charter schools, magnet
schools, private schools,
homeschooling, and other innovative
programs designed to help students
achieve their goals.
When we passed the Every Student
Succeeds Act, we advanced reforms to
widen the reach of school choice and
empower families and communities.
I am proud of these accomplishments
and look forward to continuing the
work to protect and expand school
choice and help students succeed.
f
b 1930
REMEMBERING THE ABBAS
FAMILY
(Ms. STEVENS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Abbas fam-
ily.
This beloved family perished last
week in a car crash as they were head-
ing back home from Michigan on a
family vacation.
Northville and the Metro Detroit
area have lost a cornerstone of our
community. Issam and Dr. Rima Abbas
were loving parents to their three
beautiful children: Ali; Isabella; and
their youngest, Giselle, who was only 7
years old.
As the children of immigrants from
Lebanon, Rima was the granddaughter
of the founder of the prominent mosque
in which their memorial services were
held, the Islamic Center of America in
Dearborn.
They touched the lives of their neigh-
bors of all faiths, and the interfaith
community has come out in solidarity
with the Abbas family.
My prayers are with their family and
our community. They will always re-
main in our hearts, and we will cherish
their lives for all time. We must act to
make sure this never happens again.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, it
is a sobering time to be here because
we are in the 24th day of a government
shutdown, something that none of us
wanted, and something that could be
fixed very, very quickly. I am hopeful
that it will.
We have heard some speeches tonight
from individuals calling on the Presi-
dent to open up the government. But
the reality is that the House, in De-
cember, voted to fully fund the govern-
ment, and all of the Democrats voted
no, and the Senate voted no.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.012 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H538 January 14, 2019
So here we are. We voted to keep the
government open, and we provided bor-
der security at the same time. We need
to do that.
Tonight, I think it is important that
we have a discussion with the Amer-
ican people about why we think it is
important to secure our border. Can we
do both? Can we find $5 billion in an al-
most $4 trillion budget to secure our
border? Can we open our government
and make sure our government em-
ployees have the funds that they need
to pay their bills? Absolutely, we can
do that.
I am ready to work with those on the
other side of the aisle. I find it so inter-
esting how they have changed their po-
sition. I just want to review with ev-
eryone listening tonight about the po-
sition of some of those who are now, all
of a sudden, voting no.
During the previous administration,
all 54 Democrats in the Senate voted to
double the length of a new border fence
with Mexico, double the number of bor-
der agents to 40,000, and spend $40 bil-
lion on border security. All the Demo-
crats in the Senate, in the last admin-
istration, voted for $40 billion for bor-
der security just a few years ago.
Before that, in 2006, 64 Democrats in
the House joined Republicans to pass
the Secure Fence Act to build 700 miles
of fencing along the border. In the Sen-
ate, when we had 64 Democrats join the
House to pass it, to build 700 miles of
fencing, Hillary Clinton, Barack
Obama, and CHUCK SCHUMER all voted
for it.
Then Speaker PELOSI and Majority
Leader HOYER voted in favor of the 2007
DHS appropriations bill, which in-
cluded $1 billion for fencing along the
southwest border. The same Speaker
who said it is immoral now voted for
money for fencing just a few years ago.
I find that interesting.
And CHUCK SCHUMER voted for it, and
he said: ‘‘Illegal immigration is wrong,
plain and simple. Until the American
people are convinced that we will stop
future flows of illegal immigration, we
will make no progress on dealing with
the millions of illegal immigrants who
are here now and on rationalizing our
system of legal immigration.’’
Then he said: ‘‘Any immigration so-
lution must recognize that we must do
as much as we can to gain control of
our borders as soon as possible.’’
This is the same CHUCK SCHUMER who
now thinks that we shouldn’t have it,
but just a few years ago he did support
it.
So why are we fighting to secure our
border? It is because we care about peo-
ple.
There is a drug crisis in this country,
and the drugs are coming across our
southern border into our States. I
know they are in Missouri. We have to
stop it.
I had the chance, in October, to go to
a port of entry down in Arizona, the
Nogales-Mariposa port of entry just
south of Tucson. What I saw there was
eye-opening.
What I saw is that we are at war
there. It is a war between the drug car-
tels and our dedicated Border Patrol
and Customs officials down there on
the ground. Just last year, they con-
fiscated 11⁄2 million pounds of drugs,
and they talked about how they had no
idea how many more millions of pounds
they didn’t stop, but we know.
All of us here tonight who talk to our
law enforcement at home, who talk to
our families who have lost their chil-
dren due to a heroin overdose, who talk
about how much cocaine and meth is in
our communities, those are the drugs
that they didn’t catch.
Last year, 72,000 Americans died from
a drug overdose. Now think about that.
That is more who died of a drug over-
dose than died during the entire Viet-
nam war. It is more people than last
year died, in total, of car accidents and
homicides. If you put all of the traffic
fatalities and all of the homicides to-
gether, it doesn’t equal the number of
people who have died from drug
overdoses. We have to stop this.
Part of the drugs coming across is
fentanyl. They caught 1.2 tons of this
deadly drug. That is enough, they tell
me, to kill every person in the United
States. It takes only 2 milligrams of
fentanyl to overdose, so that could kill
that many people.
In 2018, Customs and Border Patrol
seized enough cocaine to fill more than
141 1-ton pickups. I wanted to make
this poster because we all know what a
pickup looks like, and you think of a 1-
ton pickup. If you can picture, here are
141 of these 1-ton pickup trucks full of
cocaine. That is how much that our
Border Patrol caught. We don’t know
how much more they didn’t catch.
Also, they caught enough meth-
amphetamine to fill 124 pickups, 124
tons, and over 3 tons of heroin. In fact,
90 percent of the heroin in the United
States comes across the southern bor-
der.
Now, we have an opioid crisis in this
country, and I am doing everything I
can in my district, and I know many of
us are, doing what we can to address
the opioid crisis. Heroin is a type of
opioid; fentanyl is a type of opioid; and
90 percent of that is coming across our
southern border.
What that ends up being is it ends up
impacting people. Here is a poster of
some people who have been impacted
by the drug crisis we have in our coun-
try.
This mother and son, on the far
right-hand side, she was addicted to
meth, gave birth to her little boy, and
he was drug addicted at birth and went
through withdrawal.
The young man in the middle,
Eamon, he passed away, sadly, due to a
heroin overdose.
And Kristin and her daughter, Reese,
she lost custody of Reese because of
her drug addiction. She is trying des-
perately to get off drugs, but she has
lost custody.
We have a crisis in our foster care
system now because of the drug prob-
lem. We are having trouble finding
enough individuals to become foster
parents. There are so many children
who have been taken away from their
parents because of their drug addic-
tion, and it is not safe for them to be
home.
We have a drug crisis, and we have
tons, literally tons, of drugs pouring
across our southern border. That is
why we have to find $5.7 billion in
order to secure our border.
But it is more than just the drugs. It
is also our safety. It is our security.
Just last year, our Customs and Bor-
der Patrol interdicted 17,000 individuals
who had a criminal record. That is how
many they caught with a criminal
record. But, sadly, there are a lot of
people who make it across, who are
here in our country because we don’t
have a border, and they end up hurting
our families.
Just last month, our hearts broke for
Officer Singh and his family, a police
officer from California who did it right,
who came here legally from Fiji, and
whose dream was to become a police of-
ficer. He went through the training. He
learned English, his third language. He
went to the police academy, driving 4
hours every day for months in order to
complete his police academy.
He was so proud to become a police
officer, and he was a good one. He was
respected; he was amazing; and he was
brave. He was a legal immigrant we are
so proud of.
Then, sadly, right around Christmas,
he was shot and killed by an illegal im-
migrant, someone who had come across
the southern border.
And you wonder why we think it is
important to secure the border. It is
because of heartbreaking stories like
this. It is because of families who are
losing their children to drugs. That is
why we have to find the money, and we
can do it.
My colleagues and I tonight want to
share why this is so important, and
why it is important that we get this
done now.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from West Virginia (Mrs.
MILLER). She is new, but we are so
thrilled that she is here. I would like
her to come and share a little bit on
this very important issue from West
Virginia’s perspective.
Mrs. MILLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
tonight with my colleagues to speak
about the important issue of border se-
curity.
We are in the midst of a crisis on our
southern border, and it is time for our
colleagues across the aisle to stop play-
ing politics and to start focusing on
our national security.
While Washington Democrats toe the
party line and oppose President Trump
and anything he supports, our Nation
is under assault from unchecked illegal
immigration, from terrorists, from
human traffickers, and from drug
smugglers.
Sadly, as West Virginia and the Na-
tion are battling an opioid epidemic,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.033 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H539
January 14, 2019
the Democrats continue to turn a blind
eye.
In the last year alone, the amount of
fentanyl and heroin confiscated at our
southern border was enough to kill
every man, woman, and child in the
United States.
The security of our Nation rests with
a strong border. We need to build this
wall.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for the opportunity to discuss
this important issue.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
appreciate the gentlewoman’s com-
ments tonight. It is a serious matter
before us right now as a nation. That is
why we are having this conversation
tonight.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. LAMALFA),
and I thank him for being here this
evening. I think he is the first person,
certainly tonight and the other night
we had a discussion, from California to
be here, so I appreciate him coming. I
would like to hear about what he
thinks about where we are at and what
we need to do.
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, Representative
HARTZLER, for having this Special
Order tonight and for allowing me to
be part of it.
I join her in my great concern for the
crisis that is happening at our south-
ern border. I agree with our President
that it is a humanitarian and national
security crisis that has been ignored
for far too long.
Being from California, I can name
three names, just right off the top of
my head, that are the sign of our po-
rous borders and the tragedy we have
seen from them.
We all remember Kate Steinle, killed
in San Francisco with her family;
Jamiel Shaw from southern California,
needlessly killed; and, as Mrs.
HARTZLER mentioned, most recently,
Ronil Singh from central California, a
police officer, as she mentioned, who
did it the right way, serving in honor
to help keep our streets safe, all mowed
down by illegal immigrants in our
country.
b 1945
Now, some will downplay this. Some
downplay the necessity of a strong
fence at our southern border. There
areas of our border that already have
barriers that are significantly better at
preventing illegal trafficking.
In San Diego, illegal traffic has de-
creased by 92 percent since a physical
barrier was constructed back in 1992.
There are few situations that I can
think of where 92 percent isn’t seen as
a win and as effective. The fact is that
these barriers work.
There are long stretches of our
southern border where even more stur-
dy fences would be more effective.
Many of my Democratic colleagues
seem to know this, but they are appar-
ently more interested in obstructing
this President than in reaching a com-
promise to reopen our government, se-
cure our border, and provide disaster
funding to the West Coast and the
Southern States.
Now, this is only a few years after
passionate speeches by major Demo-
cratic leaders and the votes to back it
up. We saw, again, Mrs. Clinton, Presi-
dent Obama, Senator SCHUMER, as well
as President Bill Clinton right at this
dais a few years ago passionately
speaking about the need for this.
It is about giving Border Patrol
agents the tools they need to be suc-
cessful in protecting our Nation’s sov-
ereignty from gunrunning, human traf-
ficking, and the mass flow of high-risk
drugs, as so eloquently outlined by
Mrs. HARTZLER, by all of these violent
gangs that have free access to our bor-
ders.
The complete and total lack of nego-
tiation by our Democratic colleagues is
telling. They are not happy to reopen
the government. They are just fine
with our porous border the way it is. I
guess, does this poll well?
I believe the overwhelming majority
of Americans are not happy with it.
They want solutions for border secu-
rity, for the coyotes who are preying
on those who are seeking passage into
this country—unspeakable things that
happen to women in these crossings by
these coyotes and others who take ad-
vantage of them. Is that compassion?
We seek legal entry for people who
seek work permits for agriculture and
other work needs and a DACA solution
that we can all come to the table and
find common ground on. So, indeed,
real negotiations need to happen in
good faith to reopen our government
and secure our border, as is our duty to
our sovereign Nation that we swear an
oath to protect.
I thank Mrs. HARTZLER for yielding
me the time.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman; he makes a great
point about the safety of the individ-
uals who are coming here. Because we
have this open border, it is
incentivizing people to make this very
dangerous trek.
Doctors Without Borders has re-
ported that 30 percent of the women
who make this trek, who have given
their money to coyotes to bring them
here, are sexually assaulted. Now, that
should be upsetting for anyone. That is
another reason I believe we need to
close the border and then enable and
help and work with individuals to come
here legally.
I think the gentleman makes a great
point, too, that there is a lot of nego-
tiation that could take place right now
if the Democrats would be willing to
sit down. We do have the DACA situa-
tion. We do need more workers. We do
need to work on our visas. We need to
reform our immigration our laws so
that individuals like Police Officer
Singh and others who want to come
and contribute can come here easier.
We all have an immigration story,
and I support legal immigration. So
let’s sit down. Let’s talk about the
changes that need to be made to our
immigration system, but let’s also se-
cure our Nation.
Madam Speaker, I yield to my col-
league from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN) to
share his thoughts on this matter, on
why he thinks it is important that we
secure our border.
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for her efforts in or-
ganizing this Special Order this
evening.
As we continue to fight for the safety
and security of our fellow Americans, I
want to highlight safety and security
because that is our number one role in
this country. Madam Speaker, I rise to-
night with many of my colleagues to
address the significance of this crisis
we are facing on our southern border.
Just last week, President Trump ad-
dressed the Nation from the Oval Office
for the first time about the importance
of border security and mentioned the
devastating story of Robert Page, who
was violently murdered by an illegal
immigrant in my home State of Geor-
gia. A 76-year-old grandfather’s life was
needlessly cut short at the hands of an
individual who was in our country ille-
gally.
There are far too many families in
our country who are coping with tragic
losses like this as a result of insuffi-
cient border security. The bottom line
is, whatever we are doing for border se-
curity, it is not working. We must do
more.
That is not to mention the illegal
drugs that are coming into the United
States. As the President mentioned in
his letter to Congress, 300 Americans
are killed every week from heroin, and
90 percent of that heroin comes across
that southern border. This is a humani-
tarian and national security crisis, and
it must be addressed immediately, and
it must be done properly.
We are supposed to be a nation of
laws. How can we stand by and let law-
lessness continue?
I ask my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle to keep the best interests
of the American citizens in mind as
they continue to deny funds for com-
monsense solutions to this growing cri-
sis.
It is this body. It is the United States
Congress that appropriates funds. Then
it is sent to the President. I say this:
Congress, appropriate the funds. Let’s
build a wall. Let’s send the bill to the
President and reopen this government.
With an average of 60,000 illegals a
month on our southern border, our law
enforcement professionals must have
the additional resources to successfully
execute their jobs and keep the Amer-
ican people safe.
From the day President Trump an-
nounced his candidacy, he made it
clear that border security was a pri-
ority and his administration has been
built on promises made are promises
kept. I can tell you that the good folks
in Georgia’s 12th Congressional Dis-
trict want to secure our border with a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.034 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H540 January 14, 2019
wall. We want to do it the right way.
We must stand behind our President.
The security of our Nation depends on
it.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker,
the gentleman makes some excellent
remarks. The 300 deaths a day due to
overdoses, the opioid crisis with 90 per-
cent of the opioids coming across the
southern border, that is why we have
got to secure the border.
I agree; we have a humanitarian cri-
sis. There are 60,000 illegals caught a
month trying to cross our border. In
Missouri’s Fourth District, we don’t
have very many towns that even have
60,000 individuals. That is a lot of peo-
ple per month coming across.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. WALBERG),
my colleague. I thank the gentleman
for coming tonight, and I look forward
to hearing what he has to share about
this important topic.
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague from Missouri for
taking this on this evening, to make a
point that we are not just talking poli-
tics here, but we are talking lives. We
are talking freedom. We are talking op-
portunity. We are talking security.
We must secure our border, Madam
Speaker. Driving to the Detroit airport
today to fly here, I took note of the
number of walls that have been erected
along Interstate 94 just to secure the
communities developed along the high-
way from noise and sight problems.
We take a lot of effort to do those
type of things, but we have some peo-
ple who, for some reason—political, I
believe—want to stop a wall or a bar-
rier from being developed that the peo-
ple of this country want to see.
It is not because, as it has been said,
that we hate people outside of the
walls. It is that we love people inside of
the walls, and we want to pass that
love on to people who desire the Amer-
ican Dream and desire to be part of the
American ideal.
We see 31 percent of all the women
migrating up from the southern coun-
tries who are sexually assaulted on the
way up, and 17 percent of the males
have been sexually assaulted on the
way up. We have a human trafficking
problem that reaches all across the
United States. A lot of those problems
result from a border wall that is not se-
cured.
We have an opioid epidemic in our
country that is devastating the dreams
of a generation or more. There are too
many families in my district and your
districts who know the pain and suf-
fering that comes from this crisis.
Just a couple of months ago, our
community lost a young man, Chris-
topher Risner, from Jackson, a wonder-
ful young guy, a good athlete in high
school and student in college, until he
got caught in the opioid, heroin abuse
trap. Fighting to extricate himself
from it, surviving it, he fought the bat-
tle valiantly. He went through a num-
ber of treatment centers, came out,
and began to work his life forward.
I had the privilege of going to a num-
ber of forums, speaking to high school
students and others, telling his story of
the battle that he faced and what he
was doing to try to succeed and
change. But it was just 2 months ago
that he lost that battle, and I stood in
front of his open casket and thought:
Are we doing everything we can to se-
cure our people against this type of
scourge?
Madam Speaker, I suggest that we
aren’t if we are unwilling, for political
reasons, to stop a President, to stop
many Members of this Congress from
doing what we know needs to be done.
All of us have heartbreaking stories
from our back home experiences of
families that are losing loved ones far
too soon.
I am proud of the bipartisan work we
have done to combat the opioid crisis.
Sitting on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, I saw the number of bills
that we put forward—I believe, 70 in
all—and saw the President sign that
just last November.
But we must redouble our efforts.
And as we do that, one priority is we
must keep these deadly drugs off our
streets in the first place. In fiscal year
2018 alone, U.S. Customs and Border
Protection seized a total of 1.7 million
pounds of narcotics.
To curb the flow of drugs into our
communities, we must secure our
southern border. There is no doubt we
need a comprehensive solution. A bor-
der wall is just one component of what
we need to do. We also need more sur-
veillance technology, more border
agents, and more resources to address
the humanitarian crisis at the border,
yes. But as the experts at the border
tell us, a border wall, a security barrier
must be part of that solution.
At a time when hundreds of Ameri-
cans die each week from overdoses, we
need to give our border agents all the
tools they need to stem the tide of
these deadly drugs and to protect them
as well. It is time for Speaker PELOSI
to get serious about border security, to
negotiate to a solution.
Let’s stop the political games and ne-
gotiate a solution that keeps the
American people safe, keeps illicit
drugs off our streets, puts an end to
this partial shutdown, and, may I sug-
gest as well, gives greater opportunity
and security to those who deem it their
purpose in life to legally experience the
American Dream. We want to see that
happen, Madam Speaker.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker,
that is so powerful. I thank the gen-
tleman for sharing Christopher’s story.
I can’t imagine how helpless that made
him feel to stand at his casket, at his
funeral, and to realize that we here in
Congress have passed a lot of bills deal-
ing with opioids to address this, but it
is still flowing across our borders. We
need to do more.
So I thank the gentleman for sharing
that story. We do need to work in a bi-
partisan fashion. These bills that Rep-
resentative WALBERG talked about
were passed in a bipartisan fashion,
over 70 bills. Democrats and Repub-
licans came together last year and
said: This is a crisis. Let’s send this.
Now we need to complete that. We
need to complete and stop them from
coming in to begin with, in addition to
continuing to provide money for people
in treatment and our law enforcement
and mental health issues and those
other things, to go after the opioid cri-
sis. But we need to stop them flowing
here to begin with. So I thank the gen-
tleman for sharing that.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON).
He is right there at the border in the
State of Texas, along the edge. I thank
the gentleman for being here tonight
and would like to hear what he has to
say about this topic.
b 2000
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
would like to say that I am very con-
cerned, to my friend and the gentle-
woman from Arizona, to put it mildly.
I am troubled that our Nation and our
Nation’s leaders here in this great body
of the United States House of Rep-
resentatives would not put politics
aside and put our country and our citi-
zens’ safety first. It is the number one
job. It is the most important job, to
provide for a common defense and to
ensure the safety of the United States
citizens. We can never be distracted
from that, and we can never allow par-
tisan politics from fulfilling that first
responsibility and duty.
I thank the gentlewoman for her
leadership and for bringing this discus-
sion to the floor so that we can speak
directly to the American people about
our strong support for our Commander
in Chief who is simply asking for the
tools and resources to do that which he
ran for the Presidency on, was elected
to do, and is now doing everything with
unwavering commitment to follow
through on that promise to secure the
border. Border walls and barriers are a
fundamental component of security.
As a Texan, I can tell you being on
the front-lines—and the gentlewoman
knows this as well being on the front-
lines as well from the great State of
Arizona—that this is costing our
States billions of dollars, $12 billion in
the great State of Texas. We see the
drugs that are flowing in, the gangs,
the crimes, and the criminal activities.
Here is a statistic: since 2011, 186,000
illegal immigrants were charged with
more than 290,000 criminal offenses
costing $1 billion, tearing apart fami-
lies and devastating communities. And
this President is asking for the re-
sources necessary to secure our border.
Madam Speaker, I say to Mrs.
HARTZLER, I find it ironic that Demo-
crats have spoken in favor and have
even supported physical barriers. I find
it hypocritical that Speaker PELOSI
has talked about walls being immoral
when she has spent probably half of her
life being protected by those very
walls. I find it disingenuous that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.037 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H541
January 14, 2019
Democrats have said that they actu-
ally want to do something to secure
the border; they just don’t want to
have anything to do with walls or fenc-
ing.
Madam Speaker, I have got a list—
and I don’t have enough time—but last
Congress, which was my first term in
Congress, we put several bills to do just
that, to secure the border and stop ille-
gal immigration, from Kate’s Law to
No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, and
Securing America’s Future.
For the No Sanctuary for Criminals
Act, 188 Democrats voted no; Kate’s
Law, 166 Democrats voted against it;
Securing America’s Future Act to give
DACA recipients peace of mind, 190
Democrats voted against it.
Then they were crying out saying
that we have to abolish ICE, abolish
the people who risk their lives to keep
us safe. Then we put a very simple res-
olution: we support you, we love you,
we are behind you, we know what a
tough job you have; and 133 Democrats
voted present, and 34 voted against
that resolution. I wonder how that
makes the folks in uniform who defend
this country and protect our commu-
nities feel.
Madam Speaker, I thank Mrs.
HARTZLER for her generosity in allow-
ing me to speak in her time and during
this Special Order. I would just call on
my Democrat colleagues and the Dem-
ocrat leaders to be leaders, not politi-
cians, and put this country first and
work in good faith with this President
who has been willing to negotiate
every step of the way to secure this
border and protect our people.
God bless America.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman so much for shar-
ing those heartfelt words and those
statistics. They really matter. I totally
agree with the gentleman that our
number one job is to keep America
safe. The number one job is to keep
America safe. That is why we want to
find $5.7 billion to build the wall and
reopen government.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT) to
share his thoughts on where we are at
today.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for not only
her service but also this Special Order.
This is such an important issue.
Madam Speaker, having spent so
many nights all night on the border, it
is incredible what you see down there.
But what is even worse is what the
Border Patrol can tell you about,
things that you can find on the inter-
net, there are videos and there are pic-
tures. I have daughters, and there are
some things I would just rather not
see.
But as long as our border is porous
and as long as we don’t have a wall or
a fence where we need it, people are
being drawn into this country. Mexico
alone has about 130 million people. Ob-
viously we can’t have an influx of 100
million people without destroying the
economy, and then we are no longer
able to provide light to so much of the
world.
But if we secure our border—wall,
fence, barrier—where we need it, it
cuts off the tens of billions—maybe
over 100 billion now—going to the drug
cartels and the corruption comes to a
crawl. But as long as we have this po-
rous border, we are funding some of the
most evil and horrendous human trag-
edy that is going on anywhere in the
world.
The police try to stand up—it is not
hard to see pictures, find the stories—
mayor—they end up with their head
cut off and put on a pike.
How callous, how mean-spirited does
somebody have to be and how politi-
cally driven to say ‘‘we don’t care
about that’’? This is a political issue.
We don’t want the President to have a
win, so we are just going to let the bor-
der stay as porous as it is.
They talk of rape trees where women
are tied to the trees and repeatedly
raped. Objectively groups say that
maybe 37 percent or more are molested
sexually, normally multiple times.
How callous do you have to be to say,
yeah, but this is political. It is helping
our party. We want to keep it going.
It is time to do the right thing by the
people of the United States and, for
heaven’s sake, to do the right thing by
the people of Mexico.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman.
To the gentleman’s point, a reminder
that in 2006, 64 Democrats in the House
joined the Republicans to pass the Se-
cure Fence Act to build 700 miles of
fencing along the border, including
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, and
CHUCK SCHUMER. Then the next year
there was some money in an appropria-
tions bill for the wall, and both Speak-
er PELOSI and Majority Leader HOYER
voted for it. So I think the gentleman
is right. It is time to work together to
get this done.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. GREEN),
who is a new member of Congress.
I am glad to see Dr. MARK GREEN. I
am glad that he is here. We are excited
to have the gentleman serving with us
here in the body and being a former
service member from the Army who is
part of the elite unit that helped cap-
ture Saddam Hussein.
The gentleman knows a little bit
about security, so I appreciate the gen-
tleman’s sharing his thoughts on where
we are at tonight.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I would like to thank my dis-
tinguished colleague from Missouri for
putting this Special Order together
highlighting the need for border secu-
rity and, most importantly, to put our
American citizens first.
We could spend our time debating
what a physical barrier should consist
of, but let’s make one thing clear:
whether it is in the form of a wall or a
fence or some barrier combined with
21st century surveillance technology
and increased Border Patrol agents, a
barrier is an effective defense against
entry by criminals, gang members,
drug smugglers, and, yes, even terror-
ists.
My colleagues across the aisle are
now arguing that physical barriers are
ineffective. Some have even said that
they are immoral. Now, this is not the
position they held in the recent past.
President Trump has asked for $5.7 bil-
lion to help secure the border. Under
President Obama, Democrats were will-
ing to spend $40 billion for border secu-
rity.
What has changed?
Is it possible the only difference is
the occupant in the White House?
Some argue that border security is
not necessary because too few known
or suspected terrorists have been cap-
tured on the southern border. They say
that only eight have been captured. I
would suggest to my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle that one ter-
rorist gaining entry into this country
is too many. I would like to point out
that there were only 19 terrorists who
carried out the attacks on 9/11—just 19.
The fact that we know ISIS is encour-
aging their followers to try to enter
the United States across our porous
southern border should itself warrant
better scrutiny.
This leads me to direct some ques-
tions to my colleagues and friends
across the aisle.
Is it worth the risk?
Is it worth the possibility that one or
two or a dozen or 19 terrorists could
cross our southern border and carry
out an attack that kills innocent
American men and women?
I would pay $5.7 billion to stop the
next 9/11.
Terrorism is not the only threat to
our national security. In 2017, an esti-
mated 72,000 Americans died from drug
overdoses with the biggest increase in
drug overdose deaths being attributed
to fentanyl and heroin. It has been re-
ported that roughly 85 percent of the
fentanyl and 90 percent of the heroin is
coming across our southern border.
Does that death toll not warrant put-
ting aside the issues with our President
long enough on this national crisis to
fund additional barriers and to fund ad-
ditional and better drug detection
technology and surveillance tech-
nology to try to stop the flow of these
deadly drugs across our southern bor-
der?
Would it be worth it if we saved 1,000
lives? 100? A dozen?
What number would justify putting
differences aside and joining this ef-
fort?
Madam Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for this opportunity.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman so much for his
perspective, both as a doctor and as a
military officer. His speaking of secu-
rity means a lot. I think it is a good
question.
What number is it going to take?
Are we really going to say: let’s work
together and let’s do this?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.039 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H542 January 14, 2019
I think we need to sit down right
now. I am hopeful maybe this week we
will do that.
Madam Speaker, I yield to my col-
league from South Carolina (Mr. NOR-
MAN) to come share what he thinks
maybe we could do this week to get
this government opened and at the
same time secure our border.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman HARTZLER for
her efforts on this Special Order.
I don’t know that I can add a whole
lot to what has been said. But let me
tell you about a conversation I had
with a liberal who did not believe in a
wall. He didn’t think it worked. He
happened to go to the national cham-
pionship game between Clemson and
Alabama.
I asked him: How was the game?
Of course, he was a Clemson fan.
I said: Did you have tickets?
He said: Yes.
I said: Let me ask you, did you have
any trouble getting in?
He said: No, I had tickets.
I said: Did you go to a point of entry?
Yeah, we had a line.
I said: Well, could you not just walk
in? Was there a wall?
He said: No, there was a fence.
I said: Okay, there was a fence. But
was there a barrier, whether concrete
or steel? Was there a way that you
could not get in and you had to go in to
a certain point of entry?
He said: Yes.
I said: Well, explain to me what is
different with our country? If anybody
can walk in that stadium, would they
not take your seat? Would they not
violate what you paid for?
He just kind of looked at me.
I said: Do you not see the similar-
ities?
He did, but he didn’t want to admit
it.
Madam Speaker, I am very frustrated
with the inaction of Congress. I am ap-
palled that we haven’t taken the secu-
rity for our great Nation seriously.
How many Kate Steinles are going to
have to be shot?
How many Mollie Tibbetts are going
to have to be raped and killed?
How many police officers on the bor-
der are going to be shot before we say
that we have got a crisis in this coun-
try?
I have got a chart behind me that
shows what $5 billion is to our total
Federal budget spending. It is one-
tenth of 1 percent. Madam Speaker,
you try to look and see what percent-
age this is. You really can’t see it. So
as has been said, it is not about the
money. I really don’t think that those
who argue against it can really say
that they don’t work, as my friend who
went to the college football game
knows it works, because he said it did.
b 2015
Now is the time to take action, not
to hold this President in contempt,
like has been done, for political rea-
sons, having the safety of this country
and all Americans at risk.
We shouldn’t even have to have this
debate. I urge Congress to take action.
I urge Congress to put partisan politics
behind.
Let’s do right for the country. Let’s
do right for America.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
love the analogy that the gentleman
just shared about the Clemson game
and going into a football game and how
you have a ticket and there is a fence
and you go through a point of entry
and how the system works that way. It
is common sense for us. So I thank the
gentleman for sharing that.
I would like to visit with someone
else who has a lot of common sense. We
serve on the Committee on Agriculture
together. We are from rural America,
and we just have some common sense
about these things.
The gentleman is from Washington
State, and I would love to hear his
thoughts about the importance of se-
curing our border as well as reopening
government.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE).
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend Mrs. HARTZLER from
Missouri for putting this evening to-
gether to help us make some important
points about a very important issue
facing our country. So I thank the gen-
tlewoman for yielding me some time.
I just wanted to relate a couple of in-
stances. Madam Speaker, last June I
had the opportunity to tour the same
southern border area that President
Trump toured just this past week. In
fact, he was briefed by some of the
same officials that I was, including
Acting Chief Patrol Agent Raul Ortiz
of the Rio Grande Valley sector. It was
a very interesting conversation.
Chief Ortiz said, so far in 2019, his
sector has apprehended people from 41
countries around the world. On a single
day, Chief Ortiz’s sector apprehended
133 people from countries other than
Mexico or countries in Central Amer-
ica.
Madam Speaker, we absolutely have
a crisis at the border. It is a humani-
tarian crisis. Even President Obama
said as much back in 2014.
President Trump now is, rightly, cit-
ing the growing numbers of families
and unaccompanied minors crossing
the border as a crisis, yet he is met
with partisan criticism for saying so.
The numbers will tell you the truth.
Just last month, 20,000 migrant chil-
dren were brought illegally to our
country—20,000. Our border facilities
just are not equipped to handle this in-
flux of families and minor children. We
are being overrun. Therefore, this re-
sults in a humanitarian crisis.
Securing the border and coming to a
solution on immigration reform should
not be a partisan fight, but, rather, we
should see this as an opportunity to
find the common ground about which
the gentlewoman was speaking.
Americans support a deal to secure
our border, reform our immigration
system, and—another point—provide
certainty to DACA recipients.
Just this weekend, I polled my con-
stituents on this very solution. You
know what they told me? Madam
Speaker, 69.8 percent said they support
a border security and DACA solution
compromise deal. President Trump has
made it clear that he is open to a
broader immigration reform deal that
includes DACA recipients if the border
is secured.
So I think our time to achieve both
is right now. The fact that we have a
crisis at the border must be addressed.
But congressional Democrats must be
willing to make a deal with President
Trump to support broader solutions for
our Nation.
Speaker PELOSI’s flippant comment
of being willing to only give a single
dollar for a barrier at the border, that
is a slap in the face to the men and
women, like Chief Ortiz, who are work-
ing selflessly to keep our Nation safe.
Madam Speaker, let’s reopen the gov-
ernment, secure our border, and reform
our broken immigration system. We
can do all those things.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Well said. This is
so important. And we have a moment
in time right now in the history of our
country where we have had the govern-
ment—part of it—shut down for 24
days, yet we have, like the gentleman
said, all of these individuals coming
into our country, some of them terror-
ists or gang members hurting our citi-
zens.
So here is an opportunity to come to-
gether and work in a bipartisan fashion
to fix our broken immigration laws. I
agree that the DACA situation needs to
be taken care of, and we need more ag-
ricultural workers. We need to expand
our visas. We need to expand in several
areas. We need to streamline the proc-
ess.
Right now there are 600,000 individ-
uals in the process of trying to come
here legally into our country. I don’t
know if the gentleman has worked with
some of the individuals. I know, in my
own district, my office and I are help-
ing some individuals who are trying to
get their family members here legally.
It has been very interesting to see
the paperwork that they have to go
through and the amount of work. The
paperwork that I have seen has been
even this high, the documentation that
they have to submit. Then they have
money that they pay along the way,
and then there is such a large time
frame. Some have waited over a year, 2
years, or more to go through this proc-
ess legally.
But it is worth it because they want
to live the American Dream, and I ap-
plaud them. But we need to streamline
it and help those individuals who are
going through the process to get here
and make it easier, the ones who want
to be upright citizens and contribute.
But the problem is that it is not fair,
for those 600,000 individuals who are
trying to come here, who are waiting
in line, to just have somebody go
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.040 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H543
January 14, 2019
across the border and not follow our
laws, disregard our laws. It is just not
right.
So it is important that we build this
wall, that we come together in a bipar-
tisan fashion to find a solution to this,
that we find $5.7 billion, which is hard-
ly anything.
You saw the chart earlier from Rep-
resentative NORMAN about what a
small sliver of our entire budget that
would be. Surely all these lives of indi-
viduals and our families’ security and
safety are worth finding that sliver
amount of money.
We pay over $50 billion every year in
foreign aid, and we want $5.7 billion for
a wall. Madam Speaker, $50 billion we
send to other countries, many times
for them to secure their border, yet we
can’t find $5.7 billion or we can’t get
support for that from the other side of
the aisle so that we can secure our own
border. That just doesn’t make sense.
We can do better.
I appreciate all of my colleagues who
have come down tonight to have this
conversation on this topic and to talk
about how it can come about for us to
come together to find this solution, re-
open government, and to make sure
that we have a secure border for our
Nation, to stop the flow of drugs, and
to keep our country safe.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Ms. PELOSI) for today.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The Speaker on Friday, January 11,
2019, announced her signature to an en-
rolled bill of the Senate of the fol-
lowing title:
S. 24. An Act to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 23 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, January 15, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. STAUBER (for himself, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. WESTERMAN, and Mr. HAGEDORN):
H.R. 527. A bill to provide for a land ex-
change involving Federal land in the Supe-
rior National Forest in Minnesota acquired
by the Secretary of Agriculture through the
Weeks Law, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. EMMER (for himself and Mr.
SOTO):
H.R. 528. A bill to provide a safe harbor
from licensing and registration for certain
non-controlling blockchain developers and
providers of blockchain services; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. EMMER (for himself and Mr.
STAUBER):
H.R. 529. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a national inter-
section and interchange safety construction
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 530. A bill to provide that certain ac-
tions by the Federal Communications Com-
mission shall have no force or effect; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 531. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
provide that the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation may only be removed
for cause, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Ms. NORTON, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. TAKANO,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Ms.
OMAR):
H.R. 532. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to use alternatives to de-
tention for certain vulnerable immigrant
populations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Ms. BONAMICI, and Ms. CLARKE of
New York):
H.R. 533. A bill to amend title 41, United
States Code, to require the head of each ex-
ecutive agency to consider the existence of
qualified training programs of contractors in
the award of certain contracts; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self and Mr. ZELDIN):
H.R. 534. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act, in relation to requiring
adrenoleukodystrophy screening of
newborns; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr.
UPTON, and Mr. KILDEE):
H.R. 535. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to shall designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as hazardous sub-
stances under the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BUDD, Ms. FOXX of
North Carolina, Mr. RICE of South
Carolina, and Mr. JONES):
H.R. 536. A bill to provide tax relief for the
victims of Hurricane Florence, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, and Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington):
H.R. 537. A bill to amend the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 to authorize pumped stor-
age hydropower development utilizing mul-
tiple Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. NADLER, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. COHEN, Miss RICE of New
York, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
RASKIN, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. RYAN, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 538. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to require a quarterly report on
security clearances for individuals working
in the White House or the Executive Office of
the President, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr.
WEBSTER of Florida, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, and Mr. LUCAS):
H.R. 539. A bill to require the Director of
the National Science Foundation to develop
an I-Corps course to support commercializa-
tion-ready innovation companies, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Small Business,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MORELLE (for himself, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
SUOZZI, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. NADLER, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
ENGEL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. TONKO, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. REED, Mr. KATKO,
and Mr. HIGGINS of New York):
H.R. 540. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
770 Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as
the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post Office’’;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. CORREA, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS,
Mr. FOSTER, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GALLEGO,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14JA7.043 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H544 January 14, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCIA of Illi-
nois, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HARDER
of California, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. HECK, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KIND,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. LAMB, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. MCADAMS, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
MOULTON, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. OMAR,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. PLASKETT,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCHNEI-
DER, Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. STANTON, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Ms. TITUS, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TONKO,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. WILD, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, and Mr. YAR-
MUTH):
H.R. 541. A bill to limit the separation of
families at or near ports of entry; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Homeland Security, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 542. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to establish the National
Urban Security Technology Laboratory, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 543. A bill to require the Federal Rail-
road Administration to provide appropriate
congressional notice of comprehensive safety
assessments conducted with respect to inter-
city or commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 544. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide accrual of annual
and sick leave for Federal employees of an
agency subject to a lapse in appropriations,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.J. Res. 27. A joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.J. Res. 28. A joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself, Mr.
LOEBSACK, and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio):
H. Res. 40. A resolution condemning and
censuring Representative Steve King of
Iowa; to the Committee on Ethics.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Ms. BASS, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California):
H. Res. 41. A resolution rejecting White na-
tionalism and White supremacy; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. STAUBER:
H.R. 527.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 4, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Con-
stitution, which gives Congress the power to
dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States.
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 528.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 529.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 7
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 530.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power ‘‘to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 531.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 532.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 533.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 534.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 535.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. HOLDING:
H.R. 536.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. LAMBORN:
H.R. 537.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 18
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 538.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 539.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. MORELLE:
H.R. 540.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Post Offices (e.g., naming post offices; cre-
ating)—Article I, Section 8, clause 7 provides
Congress with the power to establish post
offices.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 541.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 542.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 543.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to clause 3(d)(1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee finds the authority for this
legislation in article I, section 8 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 544.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution (clause 18), which grants Congress
the power to make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Exe-
cution the foregoing powers.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.J. Res. 27.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14JA7.100 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H545
January 14, 2019
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.J. Res. 28.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 8: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
BERA, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. PLASKETT, and
Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 26: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
NORMAN.
H.R. 31: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 38: Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. WATKINS,
Mr. WALDEN, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. ADER-
HOLT, Mr. SIMPSON, and Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 92: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 95: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
BACON, Mr. KING of New York, Mr. YARMUTH,
Mrs. LESKO, Mr. GARCIA of Illinois, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. BUCK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, and Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 96: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 116: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 117: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs. DINGELL,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 125: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 141: Mr. LAMB, Mr. COURTNEY, and Mr.
STAUBER.
H.R. 150: Mr. MEADOWS and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 154: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 190: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 195: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 230: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 273: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 280: Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. COHEN, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 282: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 294: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 296: Mr. LUETKEMEYER and Mr.
BUCSHON.
H.R. 330: Mr. COHEN, Mr. ROUDA, and Mrs.
NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 350: Mr. CASE and Mr. JONES.
H.R. 367: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 371: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mrs. LESKO, and Mr. CAR-
TER of Georgia.
H.R. 372: Mr. SMITH of Washington and Mr.
CORREA.
H.R. 415: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 444: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 446: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 489: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 504: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 511: Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. PINGREE, Mrs. DEMINGS, and Mr.
BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 512: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas and Mr.
CARTER of Texas.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. COMER and Mr. HOLLINGS-
WORTH.
H.J. Res. 18: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 14: Mr. KHANNA.
H. Res. 17: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 23: Mr. LAMB.
H. Res. 35: Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Mr.
MCNERNEY.
H. Res. 37: Mrs. FLETCHER.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MRS. LOWEY
H.J. Res. 27, Making further continuing ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes, does not contain any con-
gressional earmark, limited tax benefits, or
limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9
of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MRS. LOWEY
H.J. Res. 28, Making further continuing ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes, does not contain any con-
gressional earmark, limited tax benefits, or
limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9
of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA7.016 H14JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S165
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019 No. 7
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
O God, our Father, we thank You for
setting eternity in our hearts. You are
the ultimate source of peace and
knowledge, presiding over our universe
with the majesty of Your power.
Today, we present ourselves to You
with the humble request that You
would move mightily in the hearts of
our legislators. Lord, lead them toward
the path of unity, empowering them to
accomplish Your work on Earth.
God, we thank You for the freedoms
that You have given us and ask that
through our Senators these liberties
will flourish. And, Lord, please bring
an end to this partial government shut-
down.
We pray in Your mighty Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, al-
though three-quarters of the govern-
ment is funded and fully operational,
important Federal functions continue
to be unduly affected, and hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers have now
missed paychecks.
By now, everyone in America under-
stands the basic faultlines of this dis-
agreement. The Speaker of the House
has decided that opposing President
Trump comes before the security of our
borders.
The President has asked for a reason-
able new investment, $5.7 billion—
about one-tenth of 1 percent of Federal
spending—for the same kinds of border
security that prominent Democrats ac-
tually used to brag about supporting,
for the very same kind of reinforced
steel fencing that the Obama adminis-
tration bragged about building, and for
precisely the kinds of barriers that the
men and women of law enforcement
there on the ground insist are vital for
their mission.
It is for precisely the same kind of
physical border security in which a
number of my Democratic colleagues
here in the Senate were perfectly
happy to vote to invest billions of dol-
lars just as recently as last Congress.
The 2017 funding measure that passed
the Senate with 47 Democratic votes
included upgraded border fencing; that
was in 2017, just this past Congress—
last year. And 40 Democrats voted for
the bipartisan spending deal that was
cleared just this past March. It in-
cluded more than $1.5 billion for border
barriers. Then, of course, the Appro-
priations subcommittee and full com-
mittee approved another $1.6 billion for
border security in a bipartisan vote
just this last June, and 10 of 15 com-
mittee Democrats voted to report the
final package to the full Senate. Those
are billions of dollars for physical bor-
der security, winning Democratic votes
just last year.
Well, that was before we had a new
Speaker of the House. That was before
Speaker PELOSI and her far-left base
decided that the politics of obstruction
would come before commonsense pol-
icymaking.
Here is how serious the Speaker is
about ending the impasse and getting
the government reopened: She now
proudly boasts that she would allow ex-
actly $1—$1—for border barriers.
There was bipartisan support in the
Congress for billions of dollars of phys-
ical barriers at the border before Rep-
resentative PELOSI was Speaker. Now
congressional Democrats support just
$1—$1—for border barriers since she be-
came Speaker. You have to ask your-
self, what is the reason?
Earlier this month, Speaker PELOSI
declared that the concept of any phys-
ical wall on our southern barrier was
‘‘an immorality’’—an immorality.
‘‘A wall is an immorality.’’ That is
what Speaker PELOSI said. Look, that
is not a serious statement. It would be
laugh-out-loud material if hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers weren’t
going without pay because the Speaker
has decided this absurdity is now her
party’s official position.
Immoral? Was it immoral for Demo-
crats to vote for the Secure Fence Act
in 2006? Was it immoral for President
Obama’s administration to proudly
build the same kinds of steel slat bar-
riers that President Trump now wants
more of? Is Speaker PELOSI calling sit-
ting Democrats immoral because they
voted to invest billions in border secu-
rity over the past few years alone?
I would like to see how this new phil-
osophical opposition to the existence of
walls plays out in practice. Shouldn’t
the Speaker introduce a bill to destroy
the walls and fencing that already
exist if they are immoral?
Or maybe this actually isn’t a new,
principled stand by Democrats. Maybe
this is all one big political game—no
negotiations, no collaboration. It is po-
litical game playing.
Consider the latest tactic by my
Democratic colleagues. They have said
that the President just needs to drop
his request and agree to the Demo-
crats’ plan to reopen the government,
and then—and then—they will talk
about border security—except they
couldn’t even keep up that act either.
When President Trump and Speaker
PELOSI met last week, the President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA6.000 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S166 January 14, 2019
put the question to her directly: If the
government were reopened, would
Democrats, after 30 days, then com-
promise and agree to more border secu-
rity?
No, no, said Speaker PELOSI. They
would not.
So here we are, day 24, because the
Speaker of the House has decided that
enforcing our own laws is now im-
moral, because she has decided it is
better to prolong this partial shutdown
than invest $1 in something that both
parties agreed was a good idea until
about 5 minutes ago—funding that
Obama administration border experts
continue to argue is a good idea, an es-
sential idea.
Here in the Senate, I am sorry to say,
my Democratic colleagues seem to
have just fallen in line. Based on their
actions, my colleagues across the aisle
seem to agree that it is better for Fed-
eral workers to keep going without pay
than to invest one one-thousandth of
Federal spending in the same kinds of
border security that they themselves
have voted repeatedly to fund in just
the past 2 years.
I have a hard time believing that
every last one of my Senate Demo-
cratic colleagues really stands with
Speaker PELOSI on this. It is hard to
believe. It is hard to believe that Sen-
ate Democrats now agree their own re-
cent votes on border security were ac-
tually immoral, that it would be better
to keep the government shut down
than to invest one one-thousand of
Federal spending in fencing that the
Obama administration bragged about
building.
It is particularly hard for me to be-
lieve that my distinguished colleagues
from Maryland and Virginia, who are
understandably very concerned with
the circumstances of the Federal work-
force, would rather echo Speaker
PELOSI’s fringe position—rather echo
Speaker PELOSI’s fringe position—than
work with the White House to find a
real compromise and reopen the gov-
ernment.
What is happening here is that Fed-
eral workers are paying for this far-left
ideological crusade. Lots of American
families are facing great uncertainty
because Senate Democrats apparently
agree that the same kinds of reason-
able investments they happily sup-
ported last year and the year before
have now become completely immoral
this year simply because Speaker
PELOSI suddenly now says that they
are wrong.
That isn’t really what has happened.
That isn’t what has happened. Enforc-
ing our laws has not become unethical
overnight. The physical barriers at the
border that Democrats used to support
in past Congresses and in the Obama
administration have not somehow be-
come radical rightwing positions.
Walls and fences still work. Border
security still matters. American fami-
lies still deserve safety. Reality is still
reality. When Democrats are ready to
reaccept these realities, they can nego-
tiate seriously with the White House
and bring an end to this impasse.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion to proceed
to S. 1.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
S. 1, a bill to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, here we
are, January 14. Twenty-four days ago,
the border security funding and 25 per-
cent of our government funding lapsed.
Democrats refuse to come to the ne-
gotiating table with a legitimate offer
that would end this partial government
shutdown and provide vital funding for
border security measures. Their neg-
ligence has harmed 800,000 Federal
workers who are not being paid while
this standoff continues, and it has com-
pletely stalled the work here in the
Senate because the minority leader,
the Senator from New York, has gotten
his colleagues to fall in line to block
the legislation that is currently on the
floor that would offer aid and comfort
to our friends and allies in the Middle
East, countries like Israel and Jordan.
So it has completely stalled our work
here in the Senate, as well, and, sadly,
their efforts have sought to make bor-
der security more of a political football
than the national security issue that it
is.
What I find so cynical is the fact that
Democrats have drawn a line in the
sand over something they have largely
supported in the past. For example, in
2006 we passed the Secure Fence Act.
This legislation called for more than
800 miles of fencing along the U.S.-
Mexico border, and it authorized addi-
tional layered security that we keep
discussing—things like vehicle bar-
riers, sensor technology, cameras, and
lighting. That bill passed by 80 to 19—
80 to 19—exactly the same kind of bor-
der security measures we are talking
about today and that Democrats have
shut down 25 percent of the govern-
ment over—80 to 19.
Barack Obama, CHUCK SCHUMER, and
Hillary Clinton all supported the Se-
cure Fence Act. Yet their opposition to
President Trump and anything and ev-
erything that he wants has somehow
become an article of faith for the rad-
ical left.
A few years later, in 2013, the Senate,
with Democrats holding the majority,
voted on the Border Security, Eco-
nomic Opportunity, and Immigration
Modernization Act, sometimes known
as the Gang of 8 comprehensive immi-
gration bill. That bill, among other
things, provided funding for infrastruc-
ture—that is, barriers along the bor-
der—as well as personnel—the types of
things we continue to advocate for
today. In total, that bill appropriated
$46 billion for border security.
So the Democrats—Senator SCHUMER
and Speaker PELOSI—have shut down
the government over $5 billion that the
President has requested for border se-
curity. Yet 54 Democrats—every single
one, in 2013—voted for $46 billion for
border security.
Well, today, they turn their nose up
at the President’s request for $5.7 bil-
lion, and it makes no sense whatsoever
unless you look through the lens of
partisan political gamesmanship, be-
cause rational actors, reasonable peo-
ple trying to find a solution, could eas-
ily come up with a solution based on
this history. It wouldn’t take 24 days.
It wouldn’t take 24 hours—maybe 24
minutes—to come up with a bipartisan,
bicameral solution that the President
would sign.
So what are we talking about?
Well, we are talking about the same
thing we talked about back in 2006 and
in 2013. We are talking about infra-
structure. The President likes to call it
a wall. Other people call it a fence. But
it includes things like vehicle barriers
along the Arizona-Mexico border. This
is exactly the sort of things we talked
about and voted for in 2006 and 2013.
The majority of Democrats supported
those measures in the past. Yet today
they seem proud of what they have
wrought, which is that one-quarter of
our Federal Government is being held
hostage over the same exact measures.
Their continued intransigence and
refusal to get serious about negotiating
shows one of two things: either their
party has completely flipped their posi-
tion on commonsense border security
measures or they simply refuse to work
with the President because they loathe
him. Either way, they should be
ashamed, they should be embarrassed,
but they are not.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.002 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S167
January 14, 2019
While Democrats continue to sit on
their hands, the President has said he
will consider declaring a national
emergency—left with few other op-
tions—in order to provide funds for
border security. I don’t believe declar-
ing a national emergency is either nec-
essary or productive, although I do
support the President’s request for $5.7
billion for border security. One of the
most fundamental constitutional re-
sponsibilities of Congress is to provide
funding for our government. It is our
job. It is our job, not the President’s
job. This standoff should be resolved as
all other funding disagreements have
been in the past, where everybody
comes to the table with a serious offer
and everybody negotiates in good faith.
In a democracy, nobody gets 100 per-
cent of what they want.
I support the President’s effort to se-
cure our borders, period, full stop, but
I also believe taking a step like declar-
ing a national emergency and diverting
disaster relief to border security would
seriously hurt those who are still re-
covering from the impact of natural
disasters like Hurricane Harvey. The
storm that hit my State was the larg-
est rain event in American history.
More than 50 inches of rain fell on
parts of Houston over about 5 days. It
destroyed homes, businesses, and com-
munities, and though a great deal of
progress has been made, we are still
healing.
Last year, Congress and the Presi-
dent worked very hard to secure nearly
$90 billion in disaster relief for the peo-
ple of Texas and other States and terri-
tories impacted by the devastating
hurricanes and wildfires during that
time period—an effort, by the way,
that the administration strongly sup-
ported. In Texas, that money was need-
ed to both support recovery and re-
building efforts as well as fund projects
that would mitigate future flooding
from hurricanes. Hurricane Harvey
isn’t the first hurricane we have sus-
tained, and it will not be the last. We
need to get ready for the next one. Di-
verting those funds away to support
border security would be a major step
backward and could further harm the
victims of Hurricane Harvey.
So what Democrats, by their intran-
sigence, have forced the President to
do is look at other options like taking
money away from disaster relief for
border security, but the fact is, we
need to do both. We can’t rob Peter to
pay Paul. We need to do both.
I have been grateful for President
Trump’s continued support of my State
as well as other States affected by nat-
ural disasters, and it is critical that
every dollar of the money supporting
Hurricane Harvey recovery is preserved
to finish the job. I know that is true,
and I know we all feel that way about
natural disasters that have hit our
State.
Sometimes the Senate is referred to
as the greatest deliberative body in the
world. At times like this, when con-
gressional leaders like Senator SCHU-
MER and Ms. PELOSI refuse to negotiate
with the President, I wonder whether
the Senate is actually blocked by Sen-
ate Democrats from proceeding to con-
sider important foreign affairs legisla-
tion. I wonder if we can still look our-
selves in the mirror and call ourselves
the world’s greatest deliberative body.
Historically, we have been able to
reach a consensus on very tough issues,
far more controversial than this, be-
cause we all believe American interests
should come first, that our constitu-
ents should come first, and we are
there to serve their interests, not
merely to play political games and
score political points.
So it is time for our Democratic
friends to come back to the negotiating
table so we can finally end this unnec-
essary and harmful shutdown, and,
hopefully in the process, the 800,000
Federal workers who missed their pay-
check last Friday can get paid during
this next pay period, and we can reopen
the Federal Government so we can
serve the interests of the American
people, as we should have done 24 days
ago.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, as
the government shutdown enters its
fourth unfortunate week, its effects are
widespread and worsening. As of Fri-
day, 800,000 public servants were with-
out pay. Tomorrow, roughly 41,000 Ac-
tive-Duty Coast Guard members won’t
get their paychecks. By the end of the
week, our Federal courts will start
running out of operating funds. Farm-
ers and small businesses remain unable
to access loans and assistance. Some
working families are unable to access
home loans. Food safety inspections
are curtailed. Airport terminals are
closing amidst widespread staffing
shortages at TSA. The Trump shut-
down is even affecting the opioid crisis.
The DEA is in charge of approving a
critical daily medication used by doc-
tors in the recovery and treatment of
opioid addiction. As long as the DEA is
shut down, that is not happening.
It is all the more shameful because
the Trump shutdown is a completely
manufactured crisis—manufactured by
Donald Trump. The only reason the
government is shut down right now is
that President Trump reversed posi-
tions the day before the government
funding ran out, bewildering Senate
Democrats and Republicans who were
assured he would sign a stop-gap bill to
fund the government.
Leader MCCONNELL is trying to blame
the current Speaker of the House. He is
way out to lunch on that one. We are
here because the President reversed
himself, and the last Speaker of the
House failed to use his responsibility to
put the Senate-passed bill on the floor.
This House has voted to reopen the
government. It is the Senate that
hasn’t done it because Leader MCCON-
NELL won’t bring the bill to the floor.
President Trump has stubbornly re-
fused to negotiate or soften his posi-
tion from the get-go. Democratic lead-
ers and staff have been over to the
White House over and over again to
urge the President to open the govern-
ment while we negotiate over border
security. We are all for border security.
There are different ways to do it. Ev-
eryone wants it. But why shut down
the government while we are negoti-
ating that? Every time we have asked
that of the President, he has been in-
transigent and uncompromising. He re-
fuses to back down from his position
that the price to reopen the govern-
ment is $5.7 billion of taxpayer money
for a wall he promised Mexico would
pay for.
I want to remind all my Republican
colleagues and the American people
that Democrats only want to reopen
the government. We offered a proposal
that would separate the government
shutdown from our disagreements over
border security.
The House has passed six bills to re-
open the government, each of which
was drafted and approved by Senate
Republicans. Let me emphasize that
point. The Democratic proposal to re-
open the government is to pass the Re-
publicans’ government funding bills.
Democrats are not demanding any
added policy changes, no Democratic
agenda items, no nothing. These bills
are noncontroversial. Leader MCCON-
NELL has voted for each of them.
According to a Quinnipiac poll that
just came out, the American people
support our plan by an overwhelming
majority—63 percent to 30 percent. A
healthy minority of Republicans are
for the plan. Thirty-nine percent are
for the idea, while only 52 percent are
opposed. So even Republicans are mov-
ing to the position: Open the govern-
ment, and then debate border security.
President Trump started this shut-
down. He is the person continuing it. It
is irresponsible of him to do it. Make
no mistake—Democrats are happy to
negotiate about the best way to secure
our border, but we need to open the
government first.
The fact that President Trump re-
fuses to consider our proposal means
that he is holding the government and
the American people hostage as a polit-
ical tactic. To President Trump, inno-
cent, hard-working Americans are no
more than bargaining chips. He will
bluster, mislead, and storm out of
meetings until he gets what he wants.
That is not how our system of govern-
ment works. We don’t—we can’t—gov-
ern by temper tantrum. No President
has done it. If we do not reject govern-
ment by extortion now, what is to pre-
vent the same thing from happening
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.004 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S168 January 14, 2019
over and over again under this Presi-
dent? What will he do when the debt
ceiling needs to be renewed?
Before the Christmas holiday, we had
a solution in sight. We believed the
President would support a true com-
promise to end the shutdown. At the
last minute, he reversed himself and
said no. And now he is continuing the
shutdown.
It is clear that the President doesn’t
want to end the shutdown—at least not
yet. He has flatly refused our proposal
to reopen the government while we ne-
gotiate on border security. He has con-
tradicted his own deputies—the Vice
President, the Chief of Staff—after
they made offers to Democrats. Just
this morning, he refused to consider
one of his closest allies, Senator GRA-
HAM’s proposal to open the government
temporarily while we negotiate border
security.
How many more reasonable offers
can the President reject? How much
more suffering must the President
cause before Leader MCCONNELL real-
izes it is time to move ahead without
him? It seems clear to nearly every-
body but Leader MCCONNELL that Con-
gress needs to move forward without
the President. At every juncture, the
President has been the obstacle to
progress. We need intervention.
It is time for Congress to fulfill our
constitutional duty to govern, even
without the President. It is time for
Leader MCCONNELL to realize he has
the power to break this impasse and
pass the House legislation to reopen
the government—legislation his party
already supports and legislation Leader
MCCONNELL has voted for and bragged
about. The President is unwilling to
move the ball forward, so Congress
must. I urge my friend Leader MCCON-
NELL to allow a vote on the House-
passed legislation to reopen the gov-
ernment. It seems to be the only way
out right now.
RUSSIA SANCTIONS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter—Russia sanctions—before the end
of last year, the Trump administration
moved to relax sanctions on three com-
panies owned and controlled by sanc-
tioned Russian oligarch Oleg
Deripaska.
As a reminder, an overwhelming, bi-
partisan majority of the last Congress
supported additional sanctions on Rus-
sia as a response to President Putin’s
malign activities, particularly in
Ukraine. Oleg Deripaska and a number
of companies he controlled were placed
under U.S. sanctions because Mr.
Deripaska was effectively acting as an
agent of Putin’s interests abroad,
leveraging the wealth he had accrued
through control of these companies.
In my view, the Trump administra-
tion’s plan to provide sanctions relief
to these companies is deeply flawed
and wrong.
First, it fails to sufficiently limit Mr.
Deripaska’s control and influence of
these companies. Even though this
plan brings Deripaska’s ownership in-
terest in these companies down from 70
percent to 45 percent, the terms allow
for other Russian shareholders with
family and business ties to Deripaska
to maintain shareholder interests. His
ex-wife and father-in-law will still own
a combined 7 percent in the company,
and a sanctioned Russian bank is ac-
quiring more shares. Even with the 45
percent, he would probably control it—
many American companies are con-
trolled with far less—but with these
additional people owning shares, there
is no doubt that Deripaska continues
to control the company.
Second, it must not be forgotten that
Mr. Deripaska is wrapped up in Special
Counsel Mueller’s investigation and
has deep ties to former Trump cam-
paign chairman Paul Manafort. There
should not be sanctions relief for Presi-
dent Putin’s trusted agent before the
conclusion of Special Counsel Mueller’s
investigation. Just days ago, it was re-
vealed that former campaign chairman
Paul Manafort provided Trump cam-
paign polling data to a close associate
of Mr. Deripaska’s. We don’t know
what Special Counsel Mueller knows.
And the timing—at a time when these
things are coming forward, to undue
the sanctions on Rusal is very suspect.
Lastly, removing sanctions on these
companies will benefit President
Putin’s government and economy since
the export of metals, such as alu-
minum, is a key revenue generator for
a country that needs revenues. At a
time when Russia has failed to curtail
its hostile action against our Nation
and our allies—this is not the moment
to give up a source of leverage over the
Russian Government.
Tomorrow, the Senate will take up a
motion to disapprove the Treasury De-
partment’s proposal. I strongly believe
the Senate should vote to disapprove.
And in a short time, I will be sending
a letter to every single one of my Sen-
ate colleagues—Democratic, Repub-
lican, Independent—to urge them to
block this misguided effort by the
Trump administration and keep those
much needed sanctions in place.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, it is
interesting—we have entered the 24th
day of the Trump shutdown. That
means that for 24 days, hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers have
lived with the uncertainty of when
they will get their next paycheck. Tens
of thousands, probably hundreds of
thousands, of private contractors know
they will never be paid. For 24 days,
nine Federal Departments and dozens
of Agencies have been closed for busi-
ness. They have withheld vital services
from millions of Americans. I want to
point out that the millions of Ameri-
cans who are not receiving these serv-
ices pay taxes to have these services. It
has now become the longest govern-
ment shutdown in history. Taxpayers
have lost billions of dollars. The coun-
try has lost billions of dollars.
The United States should be consid-
ered the most powerful country in the
world, but the rest of the world sees
our government being held hostage to
the whims of an undisciplined Presi-
dent who is proud of the shutdown and
shows no concern for the chaos he is
causing to all Americans, Republicans
and Democrats alike.
Ask people at home what this means
to them, no matter whether they are
Republicans or Democrats, that the
President seems not to care that the
Food and Drug Administration has
stopped inspecting seafood, fruits, and
vegetables, and Americans are at the
risk of eating tainted food and feeding
their families tainted food. He seems
not to care that the Environmental
Protection Agency has stopped inspec-
tions of chemical factories, water
treatment plants, and other industrial
sites, leaving our country vulnerable to
dangerous pollutants seeping into the
air we breathe and the water we drink.
Ask any parent how they might feel
about their child going to school and
drinking water that is tainted with
chemicals solely because we closed
down the Agency that is supposed to
inspect those chemicals.
He seems not to care that over 800,000
dedicated Federal workers have gone
without a paycheck this month. As a
result, across this Nation, hundreds of
thousands of families are wondering
how to pay their bills and put food on
the table. It doesn’t make any dif-
ference whether they are Republicans
or Democrats or Independents; they are
hard-working Americans.
Just a few days ago, the President’s
own chief economic adviser went on na-
tional television and said furloughed
workers were better off from this shut-
down because they don’t have to use up
vacation days during this time they
are being forced to take. Does he actu-
ally know what he said? Can you even
believe such an arrogant, out-of-touch
dismissal of hard-working Americans?
The President’s economic adviser is
going to get paid and doesn’t have to
worry, but this cavalier way of treat-
ing hard-working, honest Americans is
indefensible.
I hear from Vermonters every day
about the impact the shutdown is hav-
ing on their lives. None of these
Vermonters—Republican and Demo-
cratic alike—are better off. Let me
give you an example.
The other day, I heard from a single
mother who works at the Department
of Homeland Security in Vermont. She
has been working without pay since
December 22, when the Trump shut-
down began, and it has taken a toll.
Remember, this woman works for
Homeland Security.
She writes:
I love my job and country. I do have a
child to feed and bills to pay. I have been
working a second job to get some money
coming in, but when you are working full
time and you have a family to care for, there
are only so many extra hours you can work,
especially if you are not getting a paycheck
for some of the work you are doing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.005 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S169
January 14, 2019
I heard from another mother. She is
worried about her daughter. Her daugh-
ter works for the U.S. Institute of
Peace. She has been furloughed. She
just missed her first paycheck, and she
is unable to pay her bills and her stu-
dent loans. Her daughter dedicates her
life to combating terrorism, and now
she is not only unable to do her job,
but she is getting into financial trou-
ble. She is worried, and her mother is
worried, as any mother would be, but
she does not have the financial re-
sources to help her daughter.
Then there is the story of Anthony
Morselli, who is a TSA agent at the
Burlington International Airport. I see
him often as I fly back and forth. The
local paper recently reported he was
forced to start a GoFundMe page in
order to raise money to help his family
pay the bills during the shutdown. His
wife is also a TSA agent. They are both
working without pay during the shut-
down—it is a double hit—and they have
two children to support. He points out
that almost everyone seems to under-
stand except the President.
Mr. Morselli says:
To see a zero balance in your bank account
really hurts. Some of us live paycheck to
paycheck. Today would be payday, and no
money is coming in.
Another Vermonter called in who
also works for the Department of
Homeland Security in Vermont. He
says he has a month’s worth of money
available in his savings account, and
then he runs out of money entirely. He
has a mortgage to pay, and the bills
are piling up. He is scared. He works
for the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity. He says he wants to keep his job,
but the shutdown is beyond reason. He
says he certainly does not feel valued
at all by the President and this White
House. He points out that while the
President says he wants border protec-
tion, he has been holding the pay from
the people who protect our borders, in-
cluding this Vermonter. I couldn’t
agree with him more.
Last week, the Senate and House
passed a bill to ensure that all Federal
workers will get backpay as soon as
the shutdown is over. I was a cosponsor
of that bill. I am glad to hear the
President will sign it. It is the least he
can do, considering the fact that he is
the one who caused the mess. While
this bill offers assurance to Federal
employees that they will eventually
get their paychecks, it does absolutely
nothing to help them now. It does not
help the people who call my office—the
TSA agents, the DHS employees, or the
State Department employees—because
their bills are due now. This is not a
case of, ‘‘Oh, don’t worry about it.
Someday, you will get a check.’’ The
bills are due now, and the President
has threatened that his Trump shut-
down could last months or years. This
is untenable.
The President says it is about border
security. You could have fooled me.
The examples I just talked about—and
I could give so many more—all involve
dedicated Federal employees who are
working to keep this country safe.
They are proud of the work they do to
keep America safe and are proud of the
service they perform for their country,
but they are all caught in the cross-
hairs of the Trump shutdown. The
Trump shutdown is not about border
security; it is about fulfilling a cynical
campaign rally chant the President
made to spin up his base. He even gave
his word that Mexico would pay for the
wall, while knowing, even as he said it,
that it would never happen.
Congress is a coequal branch of gov-
ernment. We are not in the business of
throwing taxpayer dollars around to
build monuments to the Presidential
egos of the Presidents of any party. Ev-
eryone knows the $5.7 billion wall he
wants to build is a waste of taxpayer
money. Everybody knows it will not
address the immigration challenges in
this country.
The President has manufactured a
sense of urgency on the southern bor-
der solely to generate support for his
ridiculous wall. The President likes to
spin up his base by talking about the
invasion of illegal immigrants, but
that is not the reality. Apprehensions
at the southwest border have dropped
75 percent since 2000. More people are
here in this country illegally because
they have overstayed their visas, not
because they have snuck across the
border. Every Member of the Senate
supports border security, but I would
argue we need to invest in smart bor-
der security, not spend billions of tax-
payers’ dollars on a 30-foot wall that
determined people will be able to go
over, or through, or under.
The President is now asserting that
Democrats are for open borders. That
is nonsense. In fiscal year 2018, the
Democrats supported $21.1 billion in di-
rect appropriations for border security
and immigration enforcement. That
followed a similar amount in fiscal
year 2017. This funding supports invest-
ments at our northern and southern
borders to help stop the flow of dan-
gerous drugs like opioids, fentanyl, and
methamphetamines. It targets money
where it is needed. It pays for 19,500
Border Patrol agents nationwide, in-
cluding, roughly, 16,500 on our southern
border. It pays for 23,500 Customs Offi-
cers at our ports of entry, including
6,815 who are assigned to the southwest
border’s ports of entry. In fact, with
Democratic support, the number of
agents and officers we have is at a
record high, even though illegal border
crossings are at the lowest level we
have seen since 1971.
Last year, Democrats and Repub-
licans came together and agreed upon
$1.7 billion in targeted border security
investments. This included over $1 bil-
lion to be used between the ports of
entry for improved facilities, tactical
communications equipment, additional
air assets, integrated fixed towers,
video surveillance systems, ground de-
tection systems, tactical aerostats, and
money for countering cross-border tun-
nel threats. This is from Republicans
and Democrats working together. It in-
cluded $580 million for security at our
ports of entry by increasing funds for
intelligence capabilities at the Na-
tional Targeting Center, nonintrusive
inspection equipment so as to detect il-
licit contraband, and opioid testing
equipment. It also included another
$615 million to help address the root
causes of migration from Central
America.
These are investments that Repub-
licans and Democrats can all agree on.
This is how you protect our borders. It
is more complex, but it is more effec-
tive than building a 30-foot wall. A 30-
foot wall would not begin to do what
this does. The shutdown is not about
border security. Let’s just be honest. It
is about the President’s own ego. It has
to end.
In a few minutes, we are going to be
voting on another bill that is one the
Republican leader keeps bringing up. It
is S. 1. At a time when people are des-
perate and are out of work here in
America, we are to bring up this bill
which has nothing to do with funding
the government or border security.
Rather than voting on the appropria-
tions bills that would put Americans
back to work, S. 1 authorizes more
than $800 million, in this year alone,
for Israeli defense contractors as part
of $38 billion for Israel over the next 10
years. It is money that will put Israelis
to work. It will pay for them to go to
work. That is fine, but couldn’t we
take time, first, to put Americans back
to work?
It also includes the boycott, divest-
ment, sanctions legislation. This is an
open violation of our First Amend-
ment. It would give up Federal author-
ity over matters of foreign policy to
our State and local governments. I
might not like a particular boycott,
but the right to boycott is funda-
mental. Just pick up any one of our
books about the U.S. civil rights move-
ment and wonder if Martin Luther
King and others would have been suc-
cessful if they had not been allowed to
have boycotts. It is not up to the gov-
ernment to pick and choose which boy-
cotts citizens should support or oppose.
We have bills that are supported by
Republicans and Democrats alike that
could reopen the government. That
should be our focus. We could talk
about creating jobs in Israel at another
time. Let’s create jobs in America.
Let’s reopen our government.
I call on my friends, the Republicans,
to stand up to the President and put a
stop to this madness. Otherwise, the
shutdown will not be just the Presi-
dent’s fault but the fault of the Repub-
licans in the Senate.
I implore Senator MCCONNELL to
bring up H.R. 21 and H.J. Res. 1 and
send them to the President. Let Demo-
crats and Republicans join together in
voting for them. We could pass them
with a veto-proof majority.
Congress is a coequal branch of gov-
ernment. We should not be intimidated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.007 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S170 January 14, 2019
by any President of any party. We
should start acting like a coequal
branch of government. Frankly, we
have 800,000 people in this country who
will be paid for their work immediately
if we start acting like we are supposed
to—as a coequal branch of government.
There are hundreds of thousands of
others who need to work—contractors
and all.
Let’s stand up for Americans. We
have the money for border security,
but let’s stand up for Americans. Let’s
put them to work. Let’s let them get
paid for what they are doing. These are
our neighbors. These are people I see in
the grocery store in Vermont when I
am home on weekends. They are the
people I see coming out of church on
Sunday. These are the people I see
when I am walking down the street to
pick up my newspaper. These are good,
hard-working people. Of the ones I have
talked to, I have no idea whether they
are Republicans or Democrats. All I
know is that they want to do their
work for this country. They support
this country. They want to help this
country be secure, but they can’t un-
derstand why a temper tantrum at the
White House will allow their paychecks
to be stopped.
I yield the floor.
I don’t see anybody seeking recogni-
tion.
So I suggest the absence of a quorum
and ask for the time to be equally di-
vided.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, this
is day 23. For 23 days, we have had a
partial shutdown of the Federal Gov-
ernment. It is now the longest shut-
down in our history. That is not a
proud record.
Government workers have now gone
a pay period without getting their pay-
checks. Those who have been working
have picked up their pay stubs, and
their pay stubs show zero. Those who
have been furloughed have not received
a paycheck.
I think the American public would be
outraged to think that we are asking
our dedicated Federal workers—our
frontline of public service—to work and
not get paid. That is not what this
country stands for.
It has an effect on their work. It is
difficult to show up every day and do
your work and mission for the public
and be worried about how you are
going to have money to make your
monthly mortgage payment or to pay
for your children’s needs or to meet
your medical needs or your family’s
food needs. These are real decisions
that government workers must make.
Many are falling in default.
The largest number of Federal work-
ers live paycheck to paycheck. In other
words, they can’t make it without
their income coming in. That is a fact
of life for American workers. Yet the
government is in a partial shutdown.
I ask why? What is the disagreement
we have here that keeps us from open-
ing the government? Why is the Presi-
dent holding the American people hos-
tage to his agenda?
I say that because the House of Rep-
resentatives has passed over to us a bill
that would pass the appropriations for
six appropriations bills, opening up
most of those Agencies, all except for
one that comes under Homeland Secu-
rity. Those would be opened up. They
are not in any disagreement. The ap-
propriations specifics were agreed to by
the Senate in four of those six bills,
and the last two were passed out of the
Appropriations Committee 31 to 0 and
30 to 1. Under Republican leadership, in
a bipartisan manner, we have already
approved these six appropriations bills.
So why don’t we act?
I asked the distinguished majority
leader for us to consider that bill, and
he objected. Quite frankly, I don’t un-
derstand why, because if we bring it up
for a vote, we will pass it by over-
whelming numbers, and the govern-
ment will open for those Agencies that
are under those appropriations.
Then, my colleague Senator VAN
HOLLEN asked unanimous consent that
we bring up a continuing resolution for
Homeland Security, which passed this
body in late December by a unanimous
vote, so we could have the government
open and then we could negotiate the
border security issue. We agree on bor-
der security for the country, but we
disagree with wasting money for a wall
that will not keep us safe.
In fact, those who had been involved
in negotiating border security in the
Senate have been arguing for spending
more money for technology and per-
sonnel but not for a wall. That is what
we should be doing.
Some people ask me: Well, can you
negotiate a compromise?
It is hard to negotiate a compromise
with the President while he is holding
America hostage. It is hard to nego-
tiate with the President when he un-
dermines his own negotiators every
time we get close to an agreement.
It makes no sense at all for the gov-
ernment to be shuttered while we de-
bate these issues. The only ones we are
hurting are our government workers,
our constituents, and our economy.
Today, I met with government work-
ers at BWI, or Baltimore/Washington
International Airport. I met with peo-
ple who represent the workers who are
working for airline safety and for pas-
senger safety on our flights. These are
people who do safety inspections. These
are people who work for TSA and who
screen us as we get on the planes.
These are air traffic controllers, who
make sure that the air is safe. These
are professionals who are showing up
and working every day right now be-
cause that is their professional respon-
sibility—to keep us safe.
They acknowledge that they are dis-
tracted. They are distracted because
they don’t know how they are going to
pay their bills. They are distracted be-
cause they don’t know when they are
going to get a paycheck for working.
They are distracted because they don’t
know whether they have to find other
employment in order to pay their bills.
They don’t have the full complement
in because there are some who are out
on furlough. Some safety inspectors
aren’t there. How do they carry out
their mission unless we have the full
team in place?
Of the 800,000 Federal workers, ap-
proximately half are furloughed with-
out pay. That means the critical mis-
sion on behalf of the American public
is not being done—whether it is food
safety, whether it is approving a loan
so that a person can buy a home, or
whether it is a small business owner
who needs help from the Small Busi-
ness Administration and can’t get that
help, can’t close on a loan, can’t do
what they need to do, and can’t run
their business. So it is not only 800,000
workers who are not working or work-
ing without pay. It is also those busi-
nesses that depend upon it.
When you look at the small busi-
nesses around Federal facilities, with
so many of the workers not being there
and others not having money to pay—
they are not using those services—
these businesses are losing customers
and are laying off people.
It is not hypothetical. We know of
specific companies that have shuttered
as a result of the Federal Government
shutdown. We know of nonprofits that
had to lay off workers because their
contracts with government Agencies
expired.
Today, at BWI, or Baltimore/Wash-
ington International Airport, I heard
directly from these individuals. Each
one had a story to tell about how they
are really fighting to make sure that
airline safety issues are maintained
and about the challenges they are fac-
ing, et cetera. They told pretty direct
stories.
There was an AFGE worker there
who told me of the situation where he
had to try to explain to his young
daughter why he could not pay the fee
so she could continue in a dance class.
He didn’t have the money. It broke his
heart. These are affecting real people.
Last Friday, along with Senator VAN
HOLLEN, we met with a group of Fed-
eral Government workers. We had a
chance to talk to them. They are from
different Agencies. One was in the Jus-
tice Department. He is an excepted em-
ployee. So he is there doing his work,
trying to keep us safe, but he said the
necessary investigative work that
should have been done so that he could
get his job done to keep us safe was not
done because the person who would be
doing the investigative work was on
furlough as a result of the government
shutdown. Why should the Justice De-
partment be shut down? Why? They are
not part of the border security debate,
and yet they are.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.008 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S171
January 14, 2019
We had another of our government
workers show up and say that they
could not settle on a home. They have
a contract to settle on a new home.
They are starting a family. The reason
they can’t settle is that they are re-
quired to bring in their two most re-
cent pay stubs showing that their in-
come is what they say it is. The prob-
lem is their most recent pay stubs—
and they have them—show zero as in-
come. They no longer qualify for their
mortgage.
These are real-life people—800,000 of
them. Yet this shutdown continues. It
is dangerous. It is irresponsible. It is
wrong.
We have the votes in this Chamber to
change it tonight. I hope that Leader
MCCONNELL will bring up the two votes
that passed the House of Representa-
tives. We have already acted on those
bills in the previous Congress. Let us
open the government. It makes no
sense whatsoever. The Congress is a co-
equal branch of government.
We know that what the President is
doing is wrong. Each of us knows that
in our hearts. We know he has shut
down government for no legitimate
reason. We can debate the issues with
the government open and prevent the
loss to individual families and to our
economy. We are a coequal branch of
government, and we should act. Let us
vote on opening government.
Quite frankly, I hope we will have
the votes that would show the Presi-
dent we would override any veto he
may impose. That is our responsibility
as a coequal, independent branch of
government. Let us exercise our re-
sponsibilities, and let us take action
tonight. This shutdown needs to end. It
needs to end now.
I urge my colleagues to bring up this
legislation. Let’s pass it, and let’s show
that we can exercise our responsibility.
We recognize the President is wrong.
We have a responsibility to do what is
right, and this is what we have done in
the past.
I see my colleague from Maryland is
on the floor. The two of us have been
pretty active over the weekend, talk-
ing with Federal workers. I want to ex-
plain to the people of Maryland that we
are going to do everything in our power
to open up government. We are pre-
pared to take all steps necessary to get
government open. We know that people
are hurting. We know that people are
worried. This is irresponsible. It is
costly, and it needs to end.
I hope President Trump will end this.
If he doesn’t, we, as a coequal branch of
government, should take the necessary
actions to open the government.
I urge the Republican leader to bring
these bills to the floor. We are for bor-
der security. We are not for wasting
money on a wall. We are for negoti-
ating. Let Congress determine where
money should be spent, not the Presi-
dent. Let us all work together for the
safety of our Nation and for the protec-
tion of our workforce.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, first, I thank my colleague from
Maryland, Senator CARDIN, for his
steadfast efforts to bring this shameful
shutdown to an end. He and I have met
with Federal employees all over the
State of Maryland to bring their sto-
ries here to the floor of the Senate.
While they are under incredible hard-
ship and incredible duress, the first
thing they tell us at every meeting is
that they want to get back to work for
the American people, to do their job for
the American people. These are civil
servants; these are public servants; and
they want to get back to helping the
country.
To my friend and partner and col-
league, Senator CARDIN, I thank him
for all of his efforts in this shameful
episode of our history.
President Trump often falsely boasts
that he has accomplished what no
other President in American history
has been able to do. This time, he has
succeeded. This time, he has succeeded
in closing down the Federal Govern-
ment for a longer period than any
other President in United States his-
tory—24 days and counting.
President Trump said just a few
weeks ago that he would be proud—
proud to shut down the government if
he didn’t get his way. But President
Trump should know that reaching this
historic milestone is nothing to be
proud of. It is unnecessary, and it is
shameful. Every day that goes by, we
see mounting harm around the country
both in terms of members of the public
who are denied important services and
denied important health protections
and, of course, Federal employees and
Federal contractors who are either
going without pay—all of the Federal
employees who are going without pay,
and Federal contractors have been laid
off in many cases.
Every day that this shameful shut-
down goes on, our colleagues on the
Republican side and the Republican
leader have to own up to their share of
the responsibility. Every day that goes
on where we do not have a chance to
vote on the two House bills that are on
the Senate calendar, which we could
take up this afternoon—every day that
we do not vote on those bills, which
have had bipartisan support here in the
U.S. Senate, the Senate is an accom-
plice in the shutdown, and those who
prevent us from turning the keys to re-
open the government are complicit in
the harm that is increasing every day
around the country.
On Friday, 800,000 Federal employees
began to get pay stubs that showed
zero pay. I have one in my hand from
somebody who is an air traffic con-
troller. If you look at the area that
says net pay, it has a big goose egg—
zero. Among these 800,000 Federal em-
ployees, of course, are hundreds of
thousands of people—like the folks at
TSA, like the folks along the border—
who are working every day, but in the
mail or in their electronic pay stub
they get zero for their pay.
Of course, there are hundreds of
thousands more who are being fur-
loughed, who want to get out and do
their work for the American people,
and they are being locked out of their
jobs.
I have been talking with many of my
constituents over the last several
weeks, and I have shared many of their
stories here on the floor of the Senate.
They talk passionately and personally
about how they want to get back to
work and also about how they worry
about their ability to provide for their
families.
I met with Edward last week. He
works at the Census Bureau. He is the
only person in his family to have gone
to college. He is very proud to be a
civil servant and wants to do his job.
He owns a home, and his mortgage pay-
ments are coming due every month,
like those of millions of Americans.
While those mortgage payments are
coming in, his paycheck is not. He told
me he is very worried that he will soon
miss a payment.
It is important to understand that
the harm from this shutdown is not
just felt in the Washington metropoli-
tan area. Of course, Americans around
the country are losing access to serv-
ices, and it is a fact that 80 percent of
the people who work for the Federal
Government live outside the Wash-
ington metropolitan area. TSA offi-
cials at airports throughout the coun-
try are just one example.
It is also important to recognize that
about 30 percent of the Federal work-
force are people who previously served
our country in uniform. They were in
the military. That means that as a re-
sult of this shutdown, 250,000 Ameri-
cans—in fact, a little more than that—
who served our country in the military
are also suffering and going without
pay.
One of those veterans is somebody I
spoke to last week, an Air Force vet-
eran who works at the Office of Per-
sonnel Management. He told me he was
worried that he wasn’t going to be able
to pay his electric bill on time. He told
me he had contacted the electric com-
pany and said: Look, I am not going to
be able to pay you this month because
I am not going to get a check. Can you
just hold off? Can you defer my bill?
They told him: Sorry, that really
isn’t our responsibility.
It really is our responsibility here in
the U.S. Senate—and, of course, the
President of the United States, who
said that he was proud to shut down
the government. I would like the Presi-
dent to visit Maryland and look at that
Air Force vet who now works as a civil
servant and tell that Air Force vet
that he is proud to be shutting down
the government.
There are other veterans around the
country. As I said, the harm from this
is not confined to the Washington met-
ropolitan area. Toby Hauck served our
country in the Air Force and continues
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.010 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S172 January 14, 2019
to serve as an air traffic controller in
Illinois. His son and daughter-in-law
are about to deploy overseas, and Toby
and his wife are going to care for their
21⁄2-year-old daughter—their grand-
daughter—during this deployment.
Toby says that the continued lack of
pay adds stress to their already hectic
jobs. This is something I have heard
from other veterans, air traffic control-
lers, and others going without pay
throughout the State of Maryland.
In fact, we know from a lot of the
Federal employees who work in law en-
forcement that the impact on their
jobs is hurting our national security.
Just reading from an article in the
Washington Post, ‘‘Shutdown threatens
national security, FBI agents group
warns,’’ it goes on to say: ‘‘A group
representing FBI agents warned Thurs-
day that the partial government shut-
down is threatening national security
as thousands of federal law enforce-
ment professionals, working without
pay, grow anxious that personal finan-
cial hardships may jeopardize their se-
curity clearances and as furloughs of
their support staffs slow investiga-
tions.’’
I spoke to a Federal law enforcement
officer just last week. He made exactly
the point made by others in this arti-
cle, which is that his entire support
team has been furloughed. These are
the folks who track down DNA anal-
ysis; these are the people who do the
investigations. When they are fur-
loughed and when they are not on the
job, it puts their colleagues who are on
the job—in the FBI or other Federal
law enforcement missions—at greater
risk, and it puts the public at risk to
the extent that those FBI agents are
not able to fully do their job.
The harm is spreading. We know that
a lot of Federal contractors, including
a lot of small business folks who do
work with the Federal Government,
have had to lay off people. I know that
because, in my State of Maryland, a
small outfit that contracts with the
Federal Government to help seniors
find work just had to lay off 173 em-
ployees last week. Senior Service
America is the name of the organiza-
tion. They do great work, but they just
had to send pink slips to 173 people say-
ing: At least for now, you are out of
work, and you are out of a paycheck.
Again, this is something we are see-
ing and witnessing around the country.
A business in Denver, CO—Sky Blue
Builders—had to stop work on several
Federal contractor jobs for Federal
construction projects they were doing.
The GSA—General Services Adminis-
tration—put their projects on hold, and
a 50-person company had to lay off 8
carpenters and a superintendent be-
cause of the shutdown. They will need
to lay off more in the days ahead if the
shutdown continues.
Every day that goes on, we see a
mushrooming effect in terms of the
damage and harm being done through-
out the country. A lot of the folks who
work for these small business Federal
Government contractors are already
getting low-wage paychecks; now, they
are out of income altogether.
One of those workers is Lila Johnson.
She is a janitor at the Department of
Agriculture. She works for a company,
and that company contracts with the
Department of Agriculture to provide
janitorial services.
Lila is 71 years old. She has bills
coming due for her rent, her credit
card, and her car. Here is how she has
described the impact of the shutdown:
I don’t have enough from my retirement
and my Social Security to make ends meet.
Everything is piling up on me, and I don’t
know how I’m going to have the money to
pay these bills.
I don’t know how many of my col-
leagues saw President Trump the other
day. He sort of waved off reporters
when they asked him a question about
the harm being done as a result of the
shutdown. The President said he can
relate to these people who are just one
paycheck away from not being able to
make a mortgage or not being able to
make a medical copayment. He said:
I can relate. I’m sure the people that are
on the receiving end will make adjustments.
They always do.
Give me a break. The President
clearly doesn’t realize that 40 percent
of our fellow Americans cannot pull to-
gether even $400 for an emergency.
They do live paycheck to paycheck.
When you have grown up with a
background of privilege, as the Presi-
dent has, you really have not experi-
enced that kind of hardship. Between
Trump Tower, the White House, and
Mar-a-Lago, it is pretty clear the
President doesn’t have a clue about
what our fellow Americans are experi-
encing in this shutdown.
Because all of these Federal employ-
ees are unable to do their jobs—in
many cases, for the country—and be-
cause the small business contractors
are not able to do theirs, every day you
are seeing the growing, harmful impact
of the shutdown in terms of denial of
important services and protections for
the American people.
We know now the FDA is no longer
conducting their routine food safety in-
spections. We know the EPA has halted
inspections of major polluters, includ-
ing chemical factories. We know 1,000
affordable housing contracts have ex-
pired because of the shutdown, which
can delay critical repairs and place
families at risk of eviction. We have
seen trash and waste piling up at our
national parks.
Despite the efforts of the administra-
tion to hide a lot of these impacts, the
result has been a disaster. At Joshua
Tree National Park, we saw motorists
cut down several of the iconic Joshua
trees so they could drive in areas of the
park where vehicles are banned, and
vandals have sprayed graffiti in the
park. That is just one example among
many.
Why is this happening? It is because
the President says, if he doesn’t get his
way entirely, he is going to be
‘‘proud’’—that is his word, not mine—
to shut down the government.
I can tell you what it is not about. It
is not about the need for strong border
security. We need secure borders. I
think Senators on both sides of the
aisle know that over the years, we have
worked on a bipartisan basis to do
that. We certainly can continue to
work on a bipartisan basis to do it
going forward.
I know Senators on both sides of the
aisle recognize that wasting taxpayer
dollars on a 2,000-mile-long wall is not
the answer. For goodness’ sake, the
President’s own Acting Chief of Staff—
a former colleague of mine in the
House of Representatives—Mick
Mulvaney said a couple of years ago
that it was childlike to believe that
building that 2,000-mile wall was going
to actually provide the kind of security
we need.
We need a multilayered approach.
Yes, there are areas along the border
where we need barriers, fences, walls.
Call them what you want. They are al-
ready there. They were there before
President Trump was ever elected
President.
What was the President’s budget re-
quest this year for this part of the
Homeland Security budget? What was
his request in the official document he
sent for this fiscal year? He asked for
$1.6 billion. That is what the Senate
Appropriations Committee voted for on
a bipartisan basis, $1.6 billion.
It was only in December, when all of
a sudden you have the rightwing talk
show hosts going 24/7, spinning the
President up, that all of a sudden, oh,
boy, I guess I didn’t really mean what
I asked for; I need something else.
Then, to justify the $5.7 billion, he
did this national address the other
night. What was the very first example
he gave for why we needed this border
wall? The very first example he gave
was to interdict and stop the flow of
drugs across the southern border. That
was the first item he mentioned in the
speech. He focused on it. By focusing
on that, he demonstrated the argument
against spending all this money on a
2,000-mile border wall.
As everybody knows, including his
Department of Homeland Security, to
the extent we have drugs coming
across the southern border—and this is
a big issue—they are actually coming
through the legal points of entry, so
building a wall on all sides of the legal
points of entry will not do a thing. We
all know that on a bipartisan basis, we
have looked for new technologies and
new investments to better detect drugs
that are flowing through those legal
ports of entry.
My goodness, we can certainly talk
about further steps that can be taken,
but the leadoff point in the President’s
speech showed his ignorance about the
overall issue on how we need effective
border security.
We should not be spending what will
ultimately be $30 billion on a 2,000-mile
wall the President said Mexico was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.012 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S173
January 14, 2019
going to pay for. Make no mistake. We
are talking about $30 billion because
the President may ask for one amount
this year. It started at $1.6 billion.
That was his official request. Then, in
December, it was $5.7 billion. Now he is
going to threaten to shut down the
government every year if he doesn’t
get his $30 billion, which Mexico was
going to pay for.
I know he is doing all sorts of dances,
saying that is not quite what I meant,
but that is what he told the country.
Since we are talking about border se-
curity, let’s talk about some of the
men and women who, right now, today,
as we gather here, are defending that
border, providing border protection. I
will tell you what, the folks at Cus-
toms and Border Protection have had
enough. The Customs and Border Pro-
tection officers are suing the United
States. They are suing the President
because of this shutdown and demand-
ing that they get paid for the work
they are doing.
I know the President likes to talk
about the good work a lot of those men
and women do at Customs and Border
Protection, and they do, do good work.
They are now suing the President of
the United States and the U.S. Govern-
ment because they are out there pro-
viding border security, and they are
now getting big goose eggs, big zeros
for net pay for the work they are
doing.
I know Members of this body are not
‘‘proud’’ of this shutdown, as the Presi-
dent of the United States is. He said he
was proud. He hasn’t said otherwise, al-
though he started pointing fingers now
at everybody else. He said he was going
to take responsibility; that he would be
proud to if he didn’t get his way.
Every day that goes by in this Senate
that we don’t take action, which is
within our power to take, this Senate
becomes an accomplice in President
Trump’s government shutdown. That is
why, together with my colleagues, we
are going to continue to press the Sen-
ate and the Senate Republican leader
to take up the two House bills that are
on the Senate calendar, which are the
keys to reopening the government.
The House of Representatives, on
their very first day of the new Con-
gress, said their priority is reopening
the government, and they did. They
passed those two bills.
I have had them on the floor before.
I am going to show them again because
they are still on the calendar. They
haven’t disappeared. They are still
right there. One is H.J. Res. 1. It is a
very simple bill. It is a bill that would
reopen the Department of Homeland
Security through February 8. It is
identical, with respect to the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, as to what
this Senate did by a voice vote before
Christmas—identical. It says: Let’s re-
open the Department of Homeland Se-
curity at current funding levels while
we discuss the best and most effective
way to provide border security.
That bill was on the Senate calendar.
Last week, standing right here, I asked
for unanimous consent to take it up
and vote on it right away. The Senate
Republican leader denied that request.
Just last week, standing right over
there, Senator CARDIN brought up the
other bill that is on the Senate cal-
endar that was passed by the House to
reopen eight of the nine Departments
of the U.S. Government that are closed
and have nothing to do with Homeland
Security or the wall—nothing to do
with it. That bill is right here, H.R. 21.
Senator CARDIN asked for the Senate to
vote on it. Again, it was blocked by the
Republican leader on behalf of the cau-
cus.
As many of us have discussed, the
great irony is, these are pieces of legis-
lation that have bipartisan support in
the U.S. Senate.
As I said, the bill to reopen the De-
partment of Homeland Security
through February 8 while we work on
the best and most effective way to pro-
vide border security is something we
passed by voice vote. Republican col-
leagues thought it was a good idea
about 5 weeks ago. I don’t know why it
is not a good idea to do the same thing
today.
The other bill, which contains the
funding levels through the remainder
of this fiscal year for the other eight of
the nine Federal Departments that are
currently closed, also had broad bipar-
tisan support. One of the parts of that
bill dealing with the Department of Ag-
riculture, the Treasury Department,
the Interior Department, the Depart-
ment of Transportation, and the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment passed this Senate by a vote of
92 to 6.
The House of Representatives said:
Do you know what? We like the fund-
ing levels the House put together, but
let’s send the Senate a bill that was al-
ready supported by an overwhelming
bipartisan majority in the U.S. Senate,
92 to 6.
This bill, H.R. 21, contains those Sen-
ate funding levels voted on 92 to 6 to
reopen all those Departments. This bill
also includes measures that were over-
whelmingly passed in the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee. One measure
was adopted in the Senate Appropria-
tions Committee by a vote of 31 to 0—
Republicans and Democrats voting for
it. That is in the bill the House sent
over.
The other bills relating to the De-
partment of Commerce and the Depart-
ment of Justice passed the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee vote 30 to 1. In
this package the House sent us, you
have bills that passed the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee by 30 to 0, 30
to 1, and the floor of the U.S. Senate by
a vote of 92 to 6.
It is a very simple question: Why is it
that the Republican leader refuses to
allow this body to vote on measures
that have already had overwhelming
support in this body and would reopen
the government today?
The answer we get is, well, you know
what, the President of the United
States says he will not support it.
Do you know what? We are an inde-
pendent branch of government. We are
a coequal branch of government, al-
though these days I begin to wonder if
we relegated ourselves to the very bot-
tom of the totem pole here.
There is no excuse not to vote. Nine-
ty-two to six? That is a veto-proof ma-
jority. Let the President veto it. It has
to come back here? Ninety-two to six.
I will tell you, the fact the others
passed 30 to 0 and 30 to 1 in the Senate
Appropriations Committee—that is a
pretty good indicator of their strong,
bipartisan support. So let’s not go hide
out. Let’s not go hide out. Let’s do our
job in the Senate, and if the President
wants to veto it, let him do it. That is
how the system works. But nobody
here should be hiding from account-
ability to their constituents because
the Republican leader refuses to hold a
vote today on what the Senate sup-
ported overwhelmingly in weeks past.
I do want to thank my colleagues for
a measure that we passed last week,
passed it on Thursday or Friday. The
Senate passed a provision that was in-
troduced by Senator CARDIN and me
and many other Senators and that had
some bipartisan support and cosponsor-
ship and strong bipartisanship here on
the floor. We said that Federal employ-
ees should not, at the end of the day,
be the ones who have to bear the entire
burden of this shutdown they had noth-
ing to do with. So we passed legislation
to make sure that when this shutdown
is over, Federal employees will be
made whole in terms of their pay. That
then passed the House, and it is on the
way to the President. It was on the
way to the President before the week-
end. The Republican Senate leader said
that the President said he was going to
sign it. Of course, that is what the
President said about the bill that
passed the U.S. Senate before Christ-
mas to provide stopgap funding, so we
will see. I hope that is the case because
Federal employees, at the end of the
day, should not be the ones who are pe-
nalized and never made whole.
But it doesn’t address the problem
before us right now, which is that
while those Federal employees—hun-
dreds of thousands of them—are not
working, they are not there to provide
important services for the American
people, and the harm done from the de-
nial of those services is growing every
day. And of course it doesn’t help those
hundreds of thousands of Federal em-
ployees—in fact, 800,000 Federal em-
ployees—who are not getting paid now
but have their bills coming through the
door every day. That creates great
harm because when they can’t pay the
bills, their creditors come after them.
Even though, whenever this shutdown
ends, whenever it may be, they may
get back pay, it is going to be very
hard for them to get back their credit
rating. It is going to be very hard to
undo the damage that is being done to
them by their inability to pay their
bills because of our inability to vote on
two House measures that the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.014 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S174 January 14, 2019
has already supported on a bipartisan
basis. So it doesn’t solve that very,
very real problem, which is growing
every day.
I know my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle are hearing more and more
from their constituents—hearing from
their Federal employees who are going
without pay, hearing from small busi-
ness contractors who have had their
contracts cut and are at risk of going
belly-up, from those small contract
employees who live paycheck to pay-
check—and from the American people
who are being denied services on a
growing basis.
So let’s open the government. Let’s
vote on these two bills that would ac-
complish that. We could do it tonight.
Do it right now, as soon as the Repub-
lican leader comes in.
I can assure you that my colleagues
and I will continue to ask consent to
bring up those bills. We are going to
continue to move to bring up those
bills because they are the one thing be-
fore the Senate right now that we
could vote on that would at least dem-
onstrate that we in the Senate are
doing our job. It is the President’s job
to decide whether he thinks it is a good
idea, and if he thinks it is a bad idea,
he can veto it, and then it comes back
to us.
Let’s do our job here. Let’s not con-
tract to the President of the United
States our constitutional responsibil-
ities. That is not how it is supposed to
work. And we need to do our job. Let’s
end the shutdown. Let’s reopen the
government. We can have a conversa-
tion on the most effective way to pro-
vide border security, but for goodness’
sake, let’s release the hostages here.
Let’s release eight of the nine Federal
Departments that have nothing to do
with homeland security or the wall.
Let’s release the 800,000 Federal em-
ployees who are not getting paid. Let’s
release all of the small businesses that
do contract work for the Federal Gov-
ernment, many of which are at risk of
going belly-up. Let’s release the Fed-
eral contract employees who are now
being told not to come to work because
the contract is not in effect during the
shutdown. Let’s release all those hos-
tages who have nothing to do with the
political dispute here.
Nobody should be proud of this shut-
down, and so I say to the President of
the United States: Let’s not take pride
in being the President of the United
States who is now overseeing the long-
est shutdown in American history.
That is not a first that any President
should be proud of, and it is not some-
thing this Senate should be complicit
in.
Let’s reopen the government. Let’s
vote on the House bills.
I yield my time.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Todd Young, Mike Rounds, Richard C.
Shelby, James E. Risch, Mike Lee,
Josh Hawley, John Boozman, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mike Crapo, Tim Scott,
Cory Gardner, Roy Blunt, Steve
Daines, Marco Rubio, Rob Portman,
John Barrasso, Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN),
and the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE).
Mr. SCHUMER. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) and
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) are necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 3 Leg.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McSally
Murkowski
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Burr
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Isakson
Moran
Perdue
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 43.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
The majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
enter a motion to reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor this evening to urge my
Republican colleagues to do the right
thing and stand with us to reopen the
government and end this completely
unnecessary and, really, absurd crisis.
President Trump’s latest government
shutdown is now the longest one in
American history—24 days of workers
unsure of when their next paychecks
will come, 24 days of economic impacts
in communities all over this country,
24 days of slowdowns at our airports, 24
days of small business owners waiting
on loans. Twenty-four days of trash pil-
ing up and irreparable damage being
done at our national parks. Twenty-
four days of dysfunction. Twenty-four
days of chaos. Twenty-four days of the
government simply not working at its
most basic duties, not being allowed to
work by its own leaders.
There have been 24 days of story
after story here in the United States of
America that would embarrass citizens
of far less developed nations.
One woman from Seattle—she is a
Federal employee and has been there 25
years—wrote that the stress of not
knowing how she will manage her bills
is causing her sleepless nights—nights
she is worried about her credit score
taking a hit if she can’t pay her bills
on time. She is trying to balance all of
that while helping take care of her fa-
ther, who is a Navy veteran suffering
from a progressive neurological dis-
ease.
Another man wrote to me. He is not
a Federal employee, but he and his wife
own a small business frequented by
people who are. He told me that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.015 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S175
January 14, 2019
shutdown has brought his business to a
halt and that he is not sure how much
longer he can make it work.
A U.S. Forest Service worker wrote
to me saying that he is pretty sure he
can weather the shutdown financially,
but he is very scared for his coworkers
who cannot, and he is worried about
the deeper damage now being done to
his restoration work that is supposed
to be happening in the Olympic Na-
tional Forest.
I know every one of my colleagues is
getting letters like these, hundreds of
thousands of them. They need to read
some of those letters. I would challenge
them and anyone who doubts the sin-
cerity and fears so many Americans
are feeling right now to sit down and
hear from their constituents who are
being impacted—face to face.
This past weekend, when it became
clear the Senate would not get a
chance to vote on reopening the gov-
ernment, I flew home to Washington
State. I walked through security lines
on my way out and thanked the men
and women of TSA who are working to
protect us, not knowing when they are
going to get paid. When I got to the
airport in Seattle, I sat down with peo-
ple who had tears in their eyes, who
were describing their fear over the un-
certainty this Trump shutdown has
caused. I talked to an air traffic con-
troller who worked overtime during
the busy holiday season and who wor-
ries about the added stress and distrac-
tions on top of an already very tough
job. I heard from a Coast Guard spouse
who talked about friends in a similar
situation returning Christmas presents
to pay bills. Story after story—workers
with their families, small business
owners, and many more. This is about
individuals and their stories, but it is
also rippling across communities.
(Mr. SULLIVAN assumed the Chair.)
This is about individuals and their
stories, but it is also rippling across
communities.
Right now in my home State of
Washington, paychecks are frozen for
nearly 13,000 workers. They are work-
ers who are not going out and spending
money at local businesses the way they
usually do. They are at risk of missing
their rent payment or their mortgage
payment or their car payment or their
phone bill or their credit card bill.
They may know they will get their pay
back eventually when this shutdown fi-
nally ends, but that is not going to
cover late fees or interest fees, and it
will not compensate them for the emo-
tional anguish and deep uncertainty.
And that is just those 13,000 workers
and their families. Millions of people in
my home State, like every State, are
affected by work that is not happening
or at risk of being cut off, such as rou-
tine inspections on Washington State
ferries, an accident investigation re-
port concerning a deadly train acci-
dent, decisionmaking on the ongoing
Hanford nuclear site cleanup process,
applications for Federal financial stu-
dent aid, Federal food safety inspec-
tions, emergency food supplies for hun-
gry families, and assistance for domes-
tic violence survivors and crime vic-
tims.
The government can’t even pay its
bills. Just this morning, I saw the
headline ‘‘Layoffs hit two space compa-
nies.’’ One of those is in my home
State. Tethers Unlimited said it is
going to lay off 20 percent of its em-
ployees because it hasn’t been paid for
its government work during this shut-
down. This is absurd. This is no way for
a country like ours to run. It is shame-
ful. Once again, this has to end.
Those whom I just talked about are
just a few of the stories. Those are just
a few of the impacts. There are so
many more—big ones, small ones, nar-
row ones, broad ones, from individual
workers and their families who are
being impacted in unique and specific
ways, to entire industries and regions
that are being harmed.
This is not a theoretical issue. It is
not just a debate here in DC. This is
very real for millions and millions of
people, and that number grows with
every passing day. I and other Demo-
crats are going to keep making sure
these stories aren’t forgotten or pushed
aside. We are glad to be joined by a
growing number of Republicans who
are also hearing from their constitu-
ents and who know this shutdown sim-
ply cannot be justified and cannot be
explained. We are going to keep up this
pressure. We are not going to stop until
President Trump agrees to end this cri-
sis or until Republican leaders in the
Senate finally decide to stand up to
him and work with us to end it for him.
Let me close with this final point:
Although no shutdown is good, this one
is particularly obscene and particu-
larly unnecessary. Democrats and Re-
publicans right here in this Senate
voted unanimously just a few weeks
ago to keep the government open with-
out any funding for President Trump’s
wall, and the House voted to do the
same. Whatever one thinks about using
American taxpayer dollars to pay for
President Trump’s wall—a wall, I
would remind us, he promised Mexico
would pay for—there is absolutely no
reason to keep this government shut
down while we have that debate. All
that does is hurt people and hurt com-
munities and hurt our country for ab-
solutely no reason at all.
President Trump and some of his Re-
publican allies may see this as a polit-
ical fight they somehow need to win,
but I see this as a fight for the people
we represent, for a government that
functions, and for a country that we all
know can do better than this.
This is about whether we send the
alarming message that President
Trump can make outlandish demands,
throw a tantrum, not care how much
instability he causes or how many peo-
ple he hurts, and get away with it, or
whether instead we make clear here in
this Senate that his bad behavior will
not be rewarded. Tantrums and dys-
functional governing are not the path
to success.
I call on Republican leaders to allow
a vote on the bill the House passed,
allow a vote to reopen the government.
That bill would pass overwhelmingly,
just as it did last month.
Let’s send a message to President
Trump that the people who sent us
here want this dysfunction to end.
Let’s end this Trump shutdown, and
let’s then get back to work to fix the
problems it created. Let’s get our coun-
try back on track.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to
follow my colleague from Washington
and talk about the effects of the shut-
down. If I am really fast on a given
day, I kind of have a mind-meld with
her. I kind of have a little bit of a
mind-meld now because I want to talk
about the effects on America’s national
security.
I was on the floor last week talking
about the effects on Federal employ-
ees, so many of whom live in Virginia.
I had a roundtable on Friday in Alex-
andria, where they came out and
talked about having to reschedule med-
ical appointments, worrying about
missing their mortgage payments, and
withdrawing monies from their IRA
and having to pay a penalty to do it to
cover their bills. These Federal em-
ployees all share how passionate they
are about serving the public. That is
all they want to do. They shared the
hardships that are visited upon them
and their families by not getting a pay-
check.
I heard another, different story today
that is not about a Federal employee
but a dentist in Alexandria who shared
with our office how many of her pa-
tients are canceling their appoint-
ments. People don’t have copays—peo-
ple are worried about whether they will
have copays, so they are canceling and
postponing. So now it is not just the
Federal employees, but it is also this
small business woman who runs a med-
ical practice who is seeing the effect of
it.
I want to talk about something dif-
ferent tonight. I want to talk about na-
tional security. I want to do that be-
cause the President tweeted something
interesting on Saturday. He said his
whole motive for the shutdown was be-
cause ‘‘I promised safety and security
for the American people.’’ That was the
quote—‘‘I promised safety and security
for the American people.’’ I want to
take the floor to say that this shut-
down is actually hurting the safety and
security of the American people, and I
want to go over this in some detail.
Of the 450,000 Federal employees who
are working without pay, more than
150,000 of them are in charge of keeping
America safe. So, arguably, the most
punished group of Federal employees in
this shutdown are those charged with
keeping us safe.
I say to the Presiding Officer, you are
a veteran. You served in the military.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.021 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S176 January 14, 2019
A third of Federal employees are vet-
erans. So it is not just people whose
current job is keeping America safe,
but one-third of Federal employees are
veterans. Veterans are very affected by
this.
Just to kind of run through some ex-
amples, of the 450,000 Americans work-
ing without pay—and we had represen-
tation from a number of these Agencies
before us at the roundtable last week—
41,000 of those working without pay
now deep into the third week are Fed-
eral law enforcement and correctional
officers, 2,600 are ATF agents, nearly
17,000 are Bureau of Prisons correc-
tional officers, more than 13,000 are
FBI agents, 3,600 are marshals, and
4,400 are DEA agents.
I had an experience last year that
was very vivid to me. I visited a Fed-
eral prison in Petersburg, VA, and I
had a chance to really eyeball the chal-
lenges our prison guards deal with. The
staffing ratios are such that one
guard—especially on an evening shift—
is responsible for a wing of the prison
where there may be 100 to 150 inmates.
It is a very tough situation from a se-
curity standpoint because if there were
to be a problem in one of the rooms and
if a guard went into the room and there
were 25 people in the room—and that
was not uncommon—while tending to a
problem, others could overpower that
one guard. And on the entire wing,
there is just one.
This is a very, very difficult job, and
the notion that these correctional offi-
cers are now deep into week 3 and that
they are not being paid is just shock-
ing. I have a letter sitting on my desk
from Federal prison guards at a Fed-
eral prison facility in southwest Vir-
ginia imploring us to reopen the gov-
ernment because their job is so dif-
ficult that it just compounds when
they are not being paid.
When the President gave his speech
last week, he talked a lot about how
the challenges at the border are largely
challenges with drugs and the interdic-
tion of drugs.
If that is your worry, Mr. President,
why would you not be paying ATF,
DEA, U.S. Marshals, and FBI agents? If
that is your worry—the safety and se-
curity of the American people—why
are these people the ones you want to
punish? You make us less safe by doing
so.
All of these people are hard-working
public safety professionals, but they
are human. When they are on the job,
they are focused on keeping us safe,
but they are human. There are going to
be issues rattling around in their
brains, just like all of us have issues
rattling around in our brains during
the day. Do you really want our DEA
agents, the AFT, and the U.S. Marshals
having about 10 percent of their mind
mad that they are not getting paid and
the other 20 percent of their mind wor-
ried about making the mortgage pay-
ment or rescheduling the kids’ ortho-
dontist appointment? It would be unre-
alistic to expect these people to wall
that off completely even when they are
at work. Why are we subjecting them
to this, which makes us less safe?
Fourteen thousand of those who are
working without pay are air traffic
controllers. Many of them are not just
working, but because of other job
shortages in the profession, they are
working tremendous amounts of over-
time.
If you were to ask me ‘‘Who would be
a public safety professional you would
most like not to be mad, most like not
to be distracted, most like not to be di-
verted and thinking about something
else?’’ it would have to be an air traffic
controller.
The last thing I would want is for
somebody who flies a lot—and so many
Americans do—to think that their air
traffic controllers are sitting in the
tower—last Friday, I came back, and I
tendered about 100 pay stubs from air
traffic controllers, most of which had
zeroes on them. They had just gotten
these pay stubs. One was for one penny,
and one was for $41.75. You get that in
the mail as a hard-working profes-
sional. You are in the tower trying to
do your job, and that is going to be
working on you, thinking about what
that means for the tuition check that
gets written in the middle of January
for your kid who is going to school for
the spring semester, or the Visa bill
that is the biggest one in the year be-
cause Christmas purchases are on it, or
the heating bill that is the biggest one
of the year because this is the coldest
time of the year. I don’t want air traf-
fic controllers’ minds filled with anx-
iety and anger because they got a pay
stub that said ‘‘one penny’’ on it.
Eighty-eight percent of DHS security
employees are furloughed. That is
54,000 Customs and Border Protection
agents, 42,000 Coast Guard employees
who interdict drugs, DHS’s Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agen-
cy. If the issue is security at the bor-
der, what possibly would be the reason
why we wouldn’t take up the bill that
is at the Senate desk to fund that func-
tion at least through February 8 so we
could find a legitimate compromise on
border security and immigration re-
form? If the President is really wor-
ried, as he said, about the safety and
security of the American people, why
would you punish the very people who
are at the frontlines providing that
safety and security on our border?
The FDA is having to recall fur-
loughed employees to ensure public
health because of the prolonged state
of the shutdown in its third week. It
has forced the FDA to suspend a large
portion of food safety inspections.
Again, with flus and viruses and all
kinds of challenges and recalls of let-
tuce or recalls of other unhealthy
foods, this is an important part of
keeping America safe and secure. What
possibly can be gained first from fur-
loughing and sending them home or
then bringing them back and not pay-
ing them?
The Transportation Security Admin-
istration. There was news about this
today: Because of the pain of having to
work without pay, there has been a
spike in people calling in ill. That is
leading to longer lines at Dulles, longer
lines at Hartsfield in Atlanta, and
longer lines at the Miami International
Airport, and that is likely to continue.
We all know the hassle of any line at
the TSA. We don’t like it, but we also
want the TSA to do their job and stop
people from getting on the planes if
they have weapons or some other issue.
There was a story about somebody
being able to get through a TSA line
carrying a weapon that could be attrib-
uted to the staffing shortages and the
challenges we are putting them under.
Again, if this President wants to care
about the safety and security of Amer-
ican personnel, why punish TSA
agents?
Today, there was an announcement
that TSA will reallocate screening offi-
cers on a national basis to meet staff-
ing shortages that cannot be addressed
locally. So now not only will Federal
workers be unpaid—not only will they
be unpaid—but they will be forced to
relocate to do work to cover staffing
shortages elsewhere.
My colleague from Virginia is here,
and I want to cede the time to him, but
the Presiding Officer understands the
point I make. The first job of any of us
in public life, at whatever level, is to
protect the safety and security of the
American people. There is absolutely
no reason, if that is our goal, to take so
many dedicated public safety profes-
sionals and mess up their lives so badly
by not paying them and putting them
in a situation where they have to call
in sick and they have to worry about
medical appointments for their kids.
That is not conducive to American se-
curity and safety. We should reopen
government and get these folks back to
work.
Now that the Senate has passed the
backpay bill, I would also point out, we
will pay these people. Wouldn’t we
rather pay them to serve citizens rath-
er than pay them and lock them out?
We do not allow Federal workers to
strike, but there should be an equiva-
lent. We should not lock them out. We
are now locking them out, even though
we will still strike a backpay check to
them. Wouldn’t we rather they be pro-
viding safety and security services to
their fellow citizens?
With that, I appreciate the oppor-
tunity to address the issue, and I yield
the floor to my colleague.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, let me
pick up where my friend the Senator
from Virginia left off.
We are now in the history books: the
longest shutdown in American history
on this President’s watch—a President
who, a few weeks back, said he would
be proud to own this government shut-
down; a President who, in the lead-up,
said: Gosh, don’t those Democrats
know that most of the folks who aren’t
going to get paid are Democrats—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.023 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S177
January 14, 2019
which was, frankly, one of the most in-
sulting comments any elected official
in my lifetime has ever made.
I wish the President or somebody
from his White House had been with
Senator KAINE and I when we sat down
with Federal workers from Virginia
last Friday. Senator KAINE may have
already mentioned a couple of these
stories. I am going to briefly recap a
couple of them.
A number of Federal employees who
came and sat with us said they were in
Federal service because they thought it
was national service, many of them
former veterans who felt they had an
obligation to continue to serve our Na-
tion, to protect it.
One lady, who worked at a small
Agency that investigates chemical
spills—and there had been a chemical
spill in Houston the week before—felt
her job was to get out and investigate.
A young man who served in the mili-
tary now was supposed to be approving
the safety of helicopters that are sup-
posed to be deployed to Iraq. This guy
is not able to do his job. Who is going
to watch out for the safety of those
helicopters? What about the needs for
those helicopters that may be for
troops in harm’s way?
There is the story of one worker who
said she had a little bit and could get
through with her savings, but she went
into her IRA to draw down that money.
As Senator KAINE mentioned, she will
get repaid, but even if she gets repaid,
she will not get repaid the tax penalty
for an early withdrawal from her IRA.
Another employee was able to get a
couple thousand dollar advance on a
credit card, but even when he is repaid
in terms of backpay, that will not
make up for the fees and interest that
is charged on the credit card.
My apologies to the Presiding Officer
if the Senator from Virginia already
recounted this story. A young couple,
both Federal employees, brought their
7-week-old baby to this meeting and
said they wanted to bring this small
bundle of joy because they had the un-
thinkable happen. When they tried to
get their daughter put on their Federal
healthcare insurance, whoever was sup-
posed to send in the form had been fur-
loughed. So when they took their
daughter to the doctor and the doctor
prescribed medicine, at the drug store
they couldn’t pay the bill because the
folks didn’t have their insurance. They
had done nothing wrong. In this case, it
didn’t end up in a tragedy. The insur-
ance company, with additional docu-
mentation, put the child on the insur-
ance plan, and this family was able to
get medicine for their child, but no
parent who has earned the right to
have their kid covered by health insur-
ance should have this kind of action
interfere in their life.
I did hear Senator KAINE mention, we
had some of the air traffic controllers
there, and they brought a series of
their checks. It almost added insult to
injury to get checks that said 1 cent or
a zero on it. It is better to not even
send them a check. As Senator KAINE
mentioned, do you really want, in the
crowded airspace over Dulles, your air
traffic controller spending 30 percent of
his time figuring out how he will pay
the mortgage or pay his kids’ tuition?
You want 100 percent of that Federal
employee’s focus on landing that plane
safely.
So 800,000 thousand Federal workers,
about half of them furloughed, half of
them working not just full-time but in
some cases overtime.
Another colleague, earlier today, had
some folks working at a Federal peni-
tentiary. A lot of the workers weren’t
showing up to work not because they
were upset or because they want to
rightly protest, they couldn’t afford
the gas because they live 2 hours away
from the Federal penitentiary.
We have a President who is willing to
go to the border and go on TV but who
is not willing to sit down with any of
this workforce. That is embarrassing
and, frankly, disgraceful.
If you were saying this is only about
Federal workers, that would be bad
enough. What about the contractors?
Even though there are a group of us
trying to put legislation in place, even
if we reopen government, many of
these contractors will never be made
whole.
We have in our State a number of
small businesses. One veteran-owned
business with nine employees had to
shut down last week because she
couldn’t meet her payroll. Now, will
that small business be able to reopen?
I don’t know.
We in Virginia are blessed with in-
credible National Parks, the Shen-
andoah National Park and around the
area where Senator KAINE lives in
Richmond, civil war battlefields. This
isn’t just Federal employees. What
happens if you are a campground
around the Shenandoah National Park?
What happens if you are a little res-
taurant right outside of Petersburg
Battlefield? When those facilities shut
down, those small businesses will never
see that income come back in.
We have a flourishing craft brewery
industry in Virginia, as I know they
have in New Mexico and I imagine even
in Alaska. Port City Brewing, based in
Virginia, can’t bring a couple of new
brews to market because ATF workers
are furloughed.
There has already been mention of
the growing lines at TSA and the air-
ports. In fact, ag workers, farmers, are
waiting to see whether the President’s
support checks are going to come in.
They are not going to come in right
now. You have bad trade policy rein-
forced with the bad business practices
of a government that is shut down.
As a matter of fact, we can look at
this at a more macrolevel. What is the
cost to the taxpayer? The cost to the
taxpayer has already exceeded $3.6 bil-
lion. Why, in good gracious’ name,
can’t we at least just vote on what the
House has already voted on, what 96
Senators voted on in the middle of De-
cember?
If we want to continue to litigate
how we can better protect our borders,
count me in. I am in favor of additional
resources for border security. I am sure
we can find a way to get to yes, but
why hold 800,000 Federal workers and
hundreds of thousands of contractors
and, for that matter, the whole county
hostage?
I know my friend, the Senator from
New Mexico, is here. I am only going to
take one more moment. In my career,
I have spent longer in business than I
have in government, and most of my
career in business was about trying to
do deals. I was a venture capitalist,
which is all about doing deals. I was an
entrepreneur.
Subsequent to that, I was Governor
of a State that had a 2-to-1 Republican
legislature. If I was going to get any-
thing done as Governor, I had to find
common ground with a legislature of a
different party. I am proud to say, we
did find common ground, and Virginia
got independently recognized as best
managed State and best State for busi-
ness.
So I have had a little experience
doing deals, and I will wager this; that
when this shutdown comes to a conclu-
sion, that business schools and man-
agement consultants will write case
studies about how not to negotiate
based on Donald Trump’s activities.
Donald Trump, who sold himself to the
American people as the ultimate
dealmaker, has, I think, in the last 24—
even days before that—violated every
cardinal rule of how to get a deal done.
Let me briefly go through this.
The first thing you learn in business
when you are trying to do a deal, even
if you have a slight advantage, you try
to make it at least appear like it is a
win-win circumstance for both sides.
There has been nothing out of this
White House that has been any effort
toward those who don’t agree with the
President any sense of a win-win. It
has been all about my way or the high-
way. That is not the way you practice
business.
The second rule of business is, if you
have somebody negotiating on your be-
half, you back up your negotiator. You
don’t cut their knees off. This Presi-
dent has humiliated not only the ma-
jority leader of the Senate, who had
the misfortune of taking and accepting
the President’s word and having the
Senate vote 96-to-2 on a plan that he
thought the President was going to
sign and then have his knees cut off,
but a few days later, he had the Vice
President come to Congress and offer a
plan as at least a starting point. I don’t
think he even got back downtown be-
fore the President of the United States
had cut off his own Vice President’s ne-
gotiating skills.
In the last few days, one of the folks
whom—I think, at least, based on re-
porting—a friend of all of ours, the
President, is supposed to listen to, Sen-
ator GRAHAM from South Carolina, has
been shot down as well.
Rule No. 2, don’t kneecap your nego-
tiators.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.025 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S178 January 14, 2019
Rule No. 3, realize that no matter
how important the deal is, there is al-
ways going to be another deal. You
have to leave something on the table.
This President has so broken faith with
folks in his own party and folks on our
side of the aisle, how can this indi-
vidual think he is going to have any
credibility—regardless of how we re-
solve this issue on any forward-going
basis—to be a strong negotiator?
Rule No. 4, have somebody that is
willing to speak truth to power. Unfor-
tunately, in this administration, any
independent voice has quit, been fired,
or if they quit, as is the case of the
Secretary of Defense, the President
changes the terms and says he fired
them, after all.
Finally, for management 101, if you
are asking your workforce to go
through tough times, show a little em-
pathy. I have never seen a leader in our
country, in my time in politics, ever be
more disrespectful of the Federal work-
force, and both parties have done this.
Whenever, over the last decade, we
have gone to the well to try to cut pro-
grams, the part of the programs we al-
ways cut are what we call in Wash-
ington-speak domestic discretionary.
In English, that means the folks who
work on food stamps, the folks who
work at our national parks, the folks
who work at TSA, and the folks who
work on the Coast Guard. Yet there has
been zero empathy from this White
House for those workers who all of us
have spoken about, who are asked to do
more, who aren’t getting paid, or are
asked to work overtime. We are a bet-
ter country than this.
The President who said he was
dealmaker supreme, I think, will go
down, at least in modern management
history, and will be studied but not
studied on how you get a deal done but,
frankly, on how not to get a deal done.
So I think it is incumbent upon us in
the Senate to do our job. We do not
have to ask permission from this Presi-
dent to reopen this government, to
pass legislation that could override his
veto should he choose to do that, to
make sure the 96 Senators who voted in
favor of keeping the government open
in December would have a chance to re-
affirm that vote on a going-forward
basis.
I appreciate the time to come to the
floor. I am going to hand off to my
friend, the Senator from New Mexico.
It is my hope that we don’t make fur-
ther history this week and that we find
some way in this next day or so to get
this government reopened so we can
get this Federal workforce back to
work.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, let me
say to Senator WARNER, my good friend
from Virginia, who has an incredible
empathy for the Federal workforce, we
have the same thing in New Mexico,
and to our good friend Senator BENNET
from Colorado, we have Federal em-
ployees throughout this Nation that
really give the extra bit. They go the
extra mile. I am going to talk a lot
about that, the same way Senator
WARNER is and with the same kind of
passion he has.
Today is day 24 of the Trump shut-
down. Federal Government employees
are furloughed, and others are working
but did not get paychecks. Federal con-
tractors have already received stop
work orders. Not only are they not get-
ting paid, but they will never receive
backpay for work lost.
This Trump shutdown is now the
longest shutdown in U.S. history. His-
tory will show this shutdown to be a
political and financial fiasco of the
President’s making.
You can see in this map, published by
the New York Times—and I am sure
our Presiding Officer will see—that as
you get more green on this map, you
are hurt more by this shutdown.
You can see Alaska, Maryland, Vir-
ginia, New Mexico, Montana, and Colo-
rado, and there are a lot of States that
are really hurt. We have a large work-
force in some of the Federal agencies
that are currently shut down, includ-
ing the Department of Interior, the
Homeland Security Department, and
the Department of Agriculture.
My staff estimates, conservatively,
that we have at least 10,800 Federal em-
ployees affected, not counting law en-
forcement. We are a small State. This
has a big impact. There are no good es-
timates of the impact on many New
Mexicans employed by or under con-
tract with Federal contractors.
Federal employees are true public
servants who often forego jobs that pay
more because they believe in public
service. These men and women have
families. Some don’t have much in the
way of savings. Some live paycheck to
paycheck. One of those individuals is a
Border Patrol agent from Las Cruces,
in southern New Mexico, who has
worked for Customs and Border Protec-
tion for 18 years. He tells me:
I live paycheck to paycheck. If I don’t get
paid the money that I earn, I AM NOT
GOING TO MAKE IT! Creditors are not for-
giving any debts. I am asking you to please
try and help me and all federal workers get
paid. I feel stressed and helpless, please help.
This is from a Border Patrol agent—
the folks we rely on to keep our Nation
safe, which the President claims is his
aim. This agent is hurting. The Presi-
dent is devastating these agents and
their families.
While Border Patrol agents may or
may not support a wall, they do not
support going unpaid for the difficult
and dangerous work they do in service
to our Nation, in service to keeping our
borders safe, which we all know is the
President’s claimed goal.
The President’s unconvincing claim
that he can ‘‘relate’’ to Federal work-
ers not getting paid was belied by his
completely out-of-touch statement
that they can ‘‘make adjustments’’ and
be just fine.
This President cannot relate to the
professional support employee in the
Las Cruces FBI office whose mortgage
company, gas company, and credit card
companies are giving her no leeway—
making no ‘‘adjustments’’—while she
goes without pay. She says she is ‘‘a
REAL human [being] who is being held
hostage.’’ She has worked for the FBI
for 21 years, but she will probably leave
Federal service early so that she has
the financial security she needs to pay
her bills.
She and the other 800,000 other Fed-
eral workers are being held hostage by
a President who is willing to wreck
American families for his vanity wall.
An occupational therapist with the
Indian Health Service at the Gallup In-
dian Medical Center in northwestern
New Mexico tells me, emphatically and
in all capital letters: ‘‘I AM NOT WITH
THE PRESIDENT ON THIS ISSUE.’’
She is working hard, providing need-
ed services to Native communities, but
providing for herself and with no pay,
she is beyond stretched. She was help-
ing her son pay off college loans. She
has had to tell him that she can’t help
right now. She has an elderly mother
she visits in Las Cruces. She can’t plan
a trip now.
In fact, Indian Health Service
healthcare providers all over the coun-
try provide services essential to the
health and wellness of nearly 2.2 mil-
lion American Indians and Alaska Na-
tives in over 800 hospitals and clinics in
37 States. These Federal employees and
medical professionals—including over
2,000 nurses and nearly as many doc-
tors, pharmacists, dentists, and physi-
cian assistants—aren’t getting paid.
They are forced to work without pay,
and there is no end in sight.
Federal contractors really feel the
brunt of the shutdown. Their contract
payments are stopped. Contractors
have never received back payments
after a government shutdown.
We have a Federal contractor in Al-
buquerque, ADC LTD NM—a minority,
woman-owned company that has 2,600
employees and contractors nation-
wide—with 330 employees in Albu-
querque. The company conducts back-
ground check investigations for, iron-
ically enough, the Department of
Homeland Security and other Federal
Agencies. This company’s work has
come to a complete stop. This slows
down DHS’s ability to hire qualified
employees, inhibiting its mission to
keep our borders and Nation safe.
This company is losing tens of thou-
sands of dollars a day. This, you can
imagine, really hurts my State. Its loss
in revenues translates directly to a loss
in State tax revenue. The multiplier ef-
fect of the shutdown on New Mexico
and the Nation will ripple throughout
the economy.
This privately held company, owned
by New Mexicans, whose lineage in our
State goes back more than 300 years, is
currently paying its employees, even
though its revenue has stopped. The
owners are sacrificing to do so, but
they can’t continue for the months or
even years the President says his shut-
down could last.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.026 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S179
January 14, 2019
Federal employees will not stay in
their jobs without pay for months or
years. They have to feed their families
and pay their mortgage or their rent.
Last week, the Senate passed S. 24,
sponsored by 43 Democrats and one Re-
publican, by voice vote. The bill guar-
antees that furloughed Federal workers
would be paid from retroactively as
soon as possible. This is the least Con-
gress can do for these workers. It does
not resolve, however, the pain Federal
workers endure through a shutdown or
guarantee that their homes will not be
at risk during a shutdown or guarantee
that food will be on their table or en-
sure that the Federal workers will stay
in their jobs during a prolonged shut-
down like the one this President appar-
ently foresees. The solution is to shut
down the shutdown—to do it now, to do
it immediately.
This Trump shutdown doesn’t only
affect Federal employees and contrac-
tors. It affects the tens of thousands of
Americans who rely on government
services or need approval for projects.
A local Sante Fe small business—a con-
struction company, Sarcon Construc-
tion Corporation—is ready to begin an
$8.4 million project to build two new
hangars at the Sante Fe Municipal Air-
port. This 32,000-square-foot project
will generate $650,000 in local tax rev-
enue, and it will employ 75 to 100 peo-
ple. Many of those people are unem-
ployed now, waiting for this project to
begin. This project is a big deal for my
home city of Sante Fe.
Do you know why the project is
stalled?
Sarcon can’t get the necessary ap-
proval from the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration because of the Trump
shutdown. The FAA personnel respon-
sible for approval are furloughed. As we
can see, the shutdown has real con-
sequences for real people, especially for
people like those unemployed construc-
tion workers in New Mexico, ready and
eager to go to work but unable because
of our President’s inability to do his
job.
The President’s ridiculous claim that
many Federal employees who are not
getting paid support his shutdown has
no basis in reality. The Federal work-
ers in New Mexico who are furloughed
or are working without pay and the
Federal workers we have heard from do
not support this shutdown.
An employee with the Department of
Interior in Albuquerque writes:
While I am not sure how much good it
would do, I emailed the White House to go on
record that I am not one of the Federal em-
ployees the President is touting as wanting
to be out of work without a paycheck until
he gets his wall. I just want to go on record
. . . that no, Federal employees do not want
to stay out of work; we want to go back to
work and get paid. This is not our fight, just
his.
A husband and wife from Las Cruces
who both work for the Environmental
Protection Agency are also among the
many Federal workers who did not sup-
port the Trump shutdown. They have
three children, and they need their
paychecks. They don’t support Trump’s
wall either. As EPA engineers, they un-
derstand and oppose the environmental
destruction it will cause.
A scientist for the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration at
White Sands Missile Range in New
Mexico is one of the hundreds of thou-
sands of Federal workers who are es-
sential and working without pay. He is
working on critical space infrastruc-
ture and testing related to the Space-X
launch scheduled for later this month.
There is no good reason why this im-
portant work is not being paid for right
now.
There is no good reason why any Fed-
eral employee is not getting their sal-
ary today. There is no good reason why
Federal contractors’ contracts are not
being honored. This Federal shutdown
hurts American families across my
State and the Nation. It hurts our
economy.
One Federal employee in New Mexico
wanted to tell their story but was
banned by their employer on the
ground it would represent illegal lob-
bying of Congress. That is patently
false. Federal employees contacting
their elected representatives about this
shutdown and its impact on their work
and lives is not prohibited lobbying.
The Trump administration has not
only put these people out of work, it is
now gagging them and denying them
their free speech rights.
I call upon the President to end this
terrible shutdown. He should do so im-
mediately.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO BRANDON BARNHILL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
when Paducah Police Chief Brandon
Barnhill announced last October that
he would be retiring at the end of the
year, we knew he would leave large
shoes to fill. During his 20 years with
the department, including the last 5 it
at the helm, Brandon helped develop a
statewide reputation for excellence.
Now, as Brandon retires to pursue new
opportunities, I would like to take a
moment to thank him for his service to
the city of Paducah and the Common-
wealth of Kentucky.
Brandon graduated from Murray
State University and earned a master’s
degree from Andrew Jackson Univer-
sity. It was at the Murray Police De-
partment that Brandon began his noble
vocation in law enforcement. He spent
3 years there before joining Paducah’s
police force in 1998.
Every day, Brandon wore the badge
with pride. Out of love for his commu-
nity, he faced down danger with integ-
rity and professionalism. Our Common-
wealth is blessed with an abundance of
brave men and women who put them-
selves in harm’s way to protect their
fellow citizens, and Brandon fulfilled
his duty with distinction.
It didn’t take long for his potential
to be recognized in Paducah. Promoted
to detective the year after joining the
department, Brandon continued to earn
the respect of his colleagues both in
Paducah and throughout the State.
When the previous police chief an-
nounced his retirement in 2013, Bran-
don became the best choice to lead his
colleagues to preserve the peace.
Brandon’s leadership has helped place
the Paducah Police Department among
the most respected law enforcement or-
ganizations in Kentucky. One of his
major initiatives was to strengthen the
partnerships between the department
and the local community. Brandon re-
cently said he was particularly proud
of the ‘‘Chief’s Community Forum,’’ a
way to receive feedback on the percep-
tion of policing in the city. Throughout
his service, Brandon became an exam-
ple of integrity and credibility in law
enforcement, and the Kentucky Asso-
ciation of Chiefs of Police named him
the Chief of the Year in 2016.
In recent years, I have had the privi-
lege to work with Brandon to bring in-
creased Federal law enforcement re-
sources to Paducah in support of the
work already being done there to com-
bat the substance abuse epidemic. In
2018, the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration and the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation both committed to open
new offices in Paducah and to dedicate
assets to a partnership with State and
local law enforcement. Brandon and
the men and women of the Paducah Po-
lice Department were, of course, inte-
gral to this effort to keep our commu-
nities safe.
At his retirement celebration, Bran-
don was greeted with an outpouring of
support and gratitude from the com-
munity he had spent two decades serv-
ing. I would like to take this oppor-
tunity to add my voice to those con-
gratulating him for his remarkable
success in Paducah. With his wife
Renee and their children, Natalie and
Reese, I wish him all the best in his
next adventure. I ask my Senate col-
leagues to join me in thanking Chief
Brandon Barnhill for his leadership at
the Paducah Police Department.
f
TRIBUTE TO EDDIE ROGERS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
after 16 years of service to the people of
Taylor County, KY, Judge-Executive
Eddie Rogers is beginning his retire-
ment. My friend leaves behind a legacy
of passion for the men and women he
represented, and I would like to take a
moment to acknowledge Eddie’s career
in public service and to thank him for
his commitment to Taylor County.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.027 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S180 January 14, 2019
Eddie first entered the county’s top
job in 1999, and he worked closely with
the members of the fiscal court to ad-
dress the challenges facing the area. He
made some difficult choices, but as he
looked back on his career, Eddie said
he always did what he thought was best
to help attract new jobs to Taylor
County and provide new opportunity
for Kentuckians.
Serving in office a second time begin-
ning in 2006, Eddie’s leadership secured
several major accomplishments for the
county that will continue to be enjoyed
for years to come. During Eddie’s ten-
ure, he oversaw the opening of the Tay-
lor County Judicial Center and the
construction of a new fire department.
The county also built a new animal
shelter, and in the near future, a tech-
nology center will open as a result of
Eddie’s work. These buildings will
stand as lasting landmarks to Eddie’s
service and his success in Taylor Coun-
ty.
At his final fiscal court meeting as
judge-executive, the county’s other
elected officials thanked Eddie for his
leadership, his collaborative nature,
and his record of achievement. They
also noted his work with the Kentucky
Association of Counties, helping other
communities across the Common-
wealth. In addition to his tireless work
for Taylor County, Eddie’s colleagues
also thanked him for his personal
friendship. I can echo those sentiments
and say I have enjoyed working with
Eddie on a broad range of projects for
the community and our home State.
Joined by members of his family, Eddie
adjourned his last meeting with the ap-
preciation of many throughout Taylor
County.
At the end of his 16 years of dedica-
tion, Eddie has a lot to be proud of, and
I would like to thank him for his hard
work. With his children, Michele,
Wynn, and Natalie, and his grand-
children, Dalton and Laine, I hope he
will enjoy a well-earned retirement. I
ask my Senate colleagues to join me in
congratulating Eddie for his years of
service to Kentucky.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent from this evening’s
vote on cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to the Strengthening America’s
Security in the Middle East Act of 2019,
S. 1.
On vote No. 3, had I been present, I
would have voted nay on the motion to
invoke cloture.∑
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO WOODY CRAWFORD
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I
would like to recognize the retirement
of Mr. Millard ‘‘Woody’’ Crawford of
Colebrook, NH.
Since 1975, Mr. Crawford has worked
for the Colebrook District Office of the
New Hampshire Electric Co-operative
in the New Hampshire North Country.
The Colebrook District Office distrib-
utes power to about 1,500 co-op mem-
bers in Columbia, Colebrook, Dixville,
Stewartstown, Clarksville, and Pitts-
burg, NH and maintains miles of over-
head lines.
Returning to New Hampshire after
college in 1971, Mr. Crawford took a job
digging and setting poles for the co-op,
before making a pitch to the district
representative as to why they should
hire him as a utility lineman. He
learned line work on the job, and bring-
ing power to a household by connecting
someone to the grid remained his fa-
vorite part of the job throughout his
career.
In 1997, Mr. Crawford was responding
to an outage with his partner, Mark
Monahan, when they witnessed the
shooting of a New Hampshire State
Trooper. The gunman, having already
killed another state trooper, a district
court judge, and a newspaper editor,
threatened Mr. Crawford and Mr.
Monahan, but they drove to the main
road to stop traffic and prevented the
loss of more life.
Mr. Crawford’s colleagues praise his
professionalism and care for others,
and I am proud to join them in con-
gratulating him on his retirement.
I hope you will join me in honoring a
dedicated Granite Stater, Woody
Crawford.∑
f
REMEMBERING GERALD
BOSCHWITZ
∑ Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President,
today I wish to honor and pay tribute
to Gerald Boschwitz, who passed away
on December 30, 2018.
Gerry’s life was defined by his endur-
ing kindness and commitment to his
family. The son of Ellen and former
U.S. Senator Rudy Boschwitz, Gerry
came from a family that valued service
and decency. During his life, he em-
bodied these values and passed them on
to his children as well.
I went to Wayzata High School with
Gerry. An accomplished student, he
then attended Carleton College where
he studied political science, a subject
for which his family life prepared him
very well.
Gerry, or ‘‘the Gerb’’ as he was
known to his family, was the first of
Rudy and Ellen’s four sons and the
leader of his pack. Gerry was a quin-
tessential oldest son and big brother,
serving as both a mentor and a sound-
ing board for those he loved. Whether
it was helping his father on the cam-
paign trail, or his brothers make career
decisions, Gerry always showed up,
ready to give his support.
Gerry also worked alongside his sib-
lings at the family’s Plywood Min-
nesota/Home Valu Interiors business
for 25 years, stepping in as CEO when
his father was ready to pass the torch.
He later cofounded a business of his
own.
His commitment to his work often
made him the first one up in the morn-
ing and out the door, but that didn’t
stop him from putting his family first,
including leaving voicemails for his
wife Janet at her work so that his
voice was the first she would hear in
the morning.
Gerry’s family—his wife Janet and
their sons David, Benjamin, and Mi-
chael—was truly the centerpiece of his
life. Gerry was deeply committed to
the Boy Scouts and served as an assist-
ant scoutmaster for more than a dec-
ade. The Scouts played an important
role in the lives of his sons as well—all
three Eagle Scouts—something Gerry
was very proud of.
Gerry fought valiantly against his
multiple myeloma cancer for 41⁄2 years,
undergoing numerous treatments in-
cluding a stem cell transplant and a
natural killer cell transplant. In keep-
ing with the kindness and generosity
that defined so much of his life, Gerry’s
final gift to others was the knowledge
researchers will gain from his experi-
ence.
That final act is no surprise to those
who knew him best.
May his memory be a blessing.
Thank you.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 3:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
S. 24. An act to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
At 3:04 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 221. An act to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
monitor and combat anti-Semitism globally,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 266. An act making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 221. An act to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
monitor and combat anti-Semitism globally,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.029 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S181
January 14, 2019
H.R. 266. An act making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, January 14, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 24. An act to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. JONES,
Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr. COONS):
S. 112. A bill to amend the charter of the
Future Farmers of America, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. PORTMAN):
S. 113. A bill to appropriate funds for pay
and allowances of excepted Federal employ-
ees, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. DAINES, and Mr. ROUNDS):
S. 114. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide that activities relat-
ing to the training and readiness of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces dur-
ing a lapse in appropriations shall constitute
voluntary services that may be accepted by
the United States; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. Res. 17. A resolution congratulating the
North Dakota State University football
team for winning the 2018 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Foot-
ball Championship Subdivision title; consid-
ered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 1
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1, a bill to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appro-
priation of funds to Israel, to reauthor-
ize the United States-Jordan Defense
Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian peo-
ple, and for other purposes.
S. 21
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 21, a bill making continuing
appropriations for Coast Guard pay in
the event an appropriations act expires
prior to the enactment of a new appro-
priations act.
S. 47
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) and the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 47, a bill to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes.
S. 69
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 69, a bill to allow reci-
procity for the carrying of certain con-
cealed firearms.
S. 80
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 80, a bill to repeal the an-
nual fee on health insurance providers
enacted by the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act.
S. 94
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
94, a bill to amend the Pittman-Robert-
son Wildlife Restoration Act to facili-
tate the establishment of additional or
expanded public target ranges in cer-
tain States.
S. 105
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 105, a bill to amend title X of the
Public Health Service Act to prohibit
family planning grants from being
awarded to any entity that performs
abortions, and for other purposes.
S. 106
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 106, a bill to reauthorize and ex-
tend funding for community health
centers and the National Health Serv-
ice Corps.
S. 109
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG), the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT), the Sen-
ator from Wyoming (Mr. ENZI), the
Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY), the
Senator from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the
Senator from Nebraska (Mr. SASSE),
the Senator from Texas (Mr. CORNYN),
the Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the
Senator from Alabama (Mr. SHELBY)
and the Senator from North Carolina
(Mr. TILLIS) were added as cosponsors
of S. 109, a bill to prohibit taxpayer
funded abortions.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 17—CON-
GRATULATING THE NORTH DA-
KOTA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOT-
BALL TEAM FOR WINNING THE
2018 NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATH-
LETIC ASSOCIATION DIVISION 1
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP SUB-
DIVISION TITLE
Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 17
Whereas the North Dakota State Univer-
sity (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘NDSU’’) Bison football team won the 2018
National Collegiate Athletic Association (re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘NCAA’’)
Division I Football Championship Subdivi-
sion title game in Frisco, Texas, on January
5, 2019, in a convincing victory over the East-
ern Washington University Eagles by a score
of 38 to 24;
Whereas, with the 2018 NCAA Division I
Football Championship Subdivision title,
NDSU has now won 15 NCAA football cham-
pionships;
Whereas NDSU has won 7 of the last 8
NCAA Division I Football Championship
Subdivision titles, an exceptional achieve-
ment that is unprecedented in modern colle-
giate football history;
Whereas the NDSU Bison completed the
2018 NCAA football season with a perfect
record of 15 wins and 0 losses, displaying ex-
traordinary resilience and skill;
Whereas head coach Chris Klieman and the
entire coaching staff led the NDSU Bison to
an outstanding total of 69 wins and 4 na-
tional championships during the 5 seasons
that Chris Klieman was head coach at NDSU,
instilling character and perseverance in the
members of the NDSU football program;
Whereas an estimated 17,000 NDSU Bison
fans attended the championship game, re-
flecting the tremendous spirit and deter-
mination of Bison Nation that has helped
propel the success of the team; and
Whereas the 2018 NCAA Division I Football
Championship Subdivision title was a vic-
tory not only for the NDSU football team,
but also for the entire State of North Da-
kota: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the North Dakota State
University Bison football team as the cham-
pions of the 2018 National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division I Football Champion-
ship Subdivision;
(2) commends the players, coaches, and
staff of North Dakota State University for—
(A) their hard work and dedication; and
(B) fostering a continuing tradition of ex-
cellence; and
(3) recognizes the students, alumni, and
loyal fans who supported the North Dakota
State University Bison football team during
a successful quest to bring home another Na-
tional Collegiate Athletic Association Divi-
sion I Football Championship Subdivision
trophy for North Dakota State University.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Douglas
McDonough, a congressional fellow in
my office, be granted floor privileges
for the remainder of this year.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA6.004 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S182 January 14, 2019
NOTICE: REGISTRATION OF MASS
MAILINGS
The filing date for the 2018 fourth
quarter Mass Mailing report is Friday,
January 25, 2019.
An electronic option is available on
Webster that will allow forms to be
submitted via a fillable pdf document.
If your office did no mass mailings dur-
ing this period, please submit a form
that states ‘‘none.’’
Mass mailing registrations or nega-
tive reports can be submitted elec-
tronically at http://webster.senate.gov/
secretary/mass_mailing_form.htm or
delivered to the Senate Office of Public
Records, 232 Hart Building, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20510–7116.
The Senate Office of Public Records
is open from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. when the Senate is not
in session). For further information,
please contact the Senate Office of
Public Records at (202) 224–0322.
f
APPOINTMENT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, pursuant to Public Law 115–232,
on behalf of the Democratic Leader of
the Senate and the Vice Chairman of
the Select Committee on Intelligence,
appoints the following individual as a
member of the National Security Com-
mission on Artificial Intelligence:
Christopher A. R. Darby of New Hamp-
shire.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 266
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that H.R. 266 has been re-
ceived from the House and is at the
desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for its first
reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 266) making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for a second
reading and object to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will re-
ceive its second reading on the next
legislative day.
f
CONGRATULATING THE NORTH DA-
KOTA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOT-
BALL TEAM FOR WINNING THE
2018 NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATH-
LETIC ASSOCIATION DIVISION I
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP SUB-
DIVISION TITLE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 17, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 17) congratulating the
North Dakota State University football
team for winning the 2018 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Foot-
ball Championship Subdivision title.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 17) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JANUARY
15, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, Janu-
ary 15; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; finally, that the Senate
recess from 12:30 until 2:15 to allow for
the weekly conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
our Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, over the
weekend, as you may have heard, our
government set a new record. It wasn’t
for the number of roads being built or
repaired in this country. It wasn’t for
higher math scores or graduation rates
for kids in the United States of Amer-
ica. It wasn’t for passing the most bills
or investing the most dollars in our fu-
ture. It wasn’t for paying attention to
the next generation of Americans. It
was for the longest shutdown in the
history of the United States—a selfish
act taken by partisan politicians that
is an embarrassment to our country
and to our future.
It has been 24 days. We have Federal
employees all over the State of Colo-
rado and I am sure the State of Alaska,
the Commonwealth of Virginia, as we
heard before, who are out of work be-
cause of what Washington has done to
them. It is nothing they have done.
They have fulfilled their end of the
bargain. But because we have a screw
loose around here because we are the
only modern, industrialized country in
the world that shuts down its govern-
ment for politics—our allies don’t shut
down their government for politics,
and our foes don’t shut down their gov-
ernment for politics. No local govern-
ment shuts down its government for
politics. No school district shuts down
its government for politics. No State
would ever think of doing it. No elected
official at any level of those govern-
ments would show their face in the gro-
cery store on the weekend after they
shut down the government and said to
the citizens of Alamosa or the citizens
of Durango or the parents in Denver
public schools: Sorry. Your kids can’t
come to school today because we are
shutting down the government for poli-
tics.
It is ridiculous.
I met an air traffic controller today
who got her check on Friday after she
worked through the entire holiday. She
had a kid. I don’t know how old he was,
but he was a baby who had to be car-
ried. She worked the entire holiday,
was separated from her family, got her
check on Friday, and it was for 77
cents. The people in this body might as
well be standing outside and lifting
their middle finger at her and at the
TSA workers who were there today at
Denver International Airport making
sure that we were safe, that the trav-
eling public was safe, and who were not
getting paid, unlike the people here
during this shutdown.
By the way, that airport, which we
are very proud of in Denver and in Col-
orado, the Denver International Air-
port, is the newest airport that has
been built in the United States of
America, and it was built almost a
quarter of a century ago because we
are not making the investments that
anybody else in the world is making.
As I said, no other advanced country
in the world shuts down its govern-
ment for politics. I expect us to have
disagreements. We should have dis-
agreements, but we shouldn’t shut
down the government over this dis-
agreement. It has been 24 days.
While we were shut down, other
countries were actually investing in
their future.
In the last 24 days, South Korea
broke ground on an expanded bullet
train outside their capitol of Seoul.
While we were shut down, Canada an-
nounced support for a new 5-megawatt
geothermal plant—the first of its kind
in that country.
India issued tenders to set up 7.5
gigawatts of new solar capacity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA6.012 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S183
January 14, 2019
New Zealand announced millions in
new resources to improve the safety of
rural highways.
You should see our rural highways.
And it is not just this shutdown; it is a
decade—a decade of fiscal fights made
in the name of fiscal responsibility
that have put us in the position for the
first time since the Vietnam war and
before the Vietnam war to see our un-
employment rate falling and the deficit
going up.
This same wrecking crew who called
Barack Obama a Socialist and a Bol-
shevik and was incapable of bringing
themselves to help at a moment when
our unemployment rate was at 10 per-
cent and we were at the depths of the
worst recession since the Great Depres-
sion has now closed the government
and given us a $1.5 to $2 trillion deficit
while the unemployment rate is fall-
ing. And every one of them promised
their constituents and my constituents
that these tax cuts would pay for
themselves.
God knows, when they add it up,
what this shutdown is going to cost the
American people. It is not saving them
money.
Vietnam opened a new international
airport near Halong Bay to attract
tourists and boost the economy.
Singapore is preparing an Under-
ground Master Plan to maximize its
urban space by moving things like data
centers, utilities, and water reservoirs
below ground.
A new report shows that for the first
time ever, Germany drew more energy
from renewable sources than coal in
2018.
Ireland, in contrast to what I was
just saying about the United States of
America, ended the year with a budget
surplus. Imagine the flexibility it gives
legislators and policymakers there to
think, what are we going to do with
this surplus? How are we going to in-
vest in the next generation? How are
we going to shore up our equivalent of
Social Security? Maybe we can have a
real middle-class tax cut or lift some
people out of poverty in our country.
We can’t ask those questions today be-
cause of our fiscal imbalance and be-
cause the Government of the United
States is shut down.
While we were shut down, other
countries moved forward with a trade
partnership that excludes the United
States. Once it is fully in place, it will
represent a trading block of nearly half
a billion consumers whom our manu-
facturers should be selling to and our
small businesses should be exporting
to.
Not surprisingly, China has been ex-
tremely busy over the last 24 days
while we have been shut down. While
we have been shut down, China landed
a spacecraft on the dark side of the
Moon. That has never happened before
in human history. There was a time in
our history—you will remember it—
when the Russians launched Sputnik.
That caught our imagination. John F.
Kennedy said: We are going to put a
man on the Moon within the decade.
That is what he said. That is what we
did. Now, because of the fecklessness of
this Congress, did you know that
America cannot send an astronaut into
space without asking the Russians for
permission to ride on one of their rock-
ets?
A whole generation of Americans
that I was part of was inspired by the
space mission that NASA led. Unfortu-
nately, in my case, it did not lead me
to understand anything about mathe-
matics or science, but it inspired us as
Americans to have a big vision for
what our country could do and for what
our country could do in competition
with our adversaries around the world.
Do you think the Chinese are not ob-
serving what we are doing while they
are putting a rocket, a spaceship on
the dark side of the Moon for the first
time in human history—something
they will always be able to claim;
something we will never be able to
claim? Do you think the Russians
know that we can’t put somebody up
on the space station if we want to, that
we have to wait for them to let us do
it? Just after they put that spaceship
on the other side of the moon, China
announced that it is planning another
mission to the moon by the end of the
year and a mission to Mars by as early
as 2020.
It announced that it is planning to
invest in 4,200 miles of new railway
lines this year, including almost 2,000
miles of high-speed rail. Do you know
how many more that is than we have?
About 2,000, and that says nothing
about the investments that they have
already made.
They have begun operating new high-
speed rail lines in East China and
Northern China with initial speeds of
155 miles per hour while our govern-
ment is closed. That is another plan;
that is another set of tracks. China has
plans for a 6-gigawatt wind farm on the
border with Mongolia that, once com-
pleted, would become the largest in the
world. China continues its pursuit of a
vast space-based communications net-
work that will cover every inch of the
Earth. If we are not careful—if we are
not careful—they are going to deploy
5G a lot more quickly than we will.
That is what the rest of the world is
doing while we are shut down.
My view of this is that we don’t need
to wait for the President on this. That
is what the majority leader keeps say-
ing. He keeps saying: Well, I can’t pass
something the President will veto be-
cause it will not become law.
I don’t understand the logic of that,
speaking of math. We passed a bill in
this Senate—this Republican-con-
trolled Senate; I think it was virtually
unanimously—to keep the government
open. The House of Representatives
passed a very similar bill to keep the
government open, and in the middle of
this, in the midst of all of this, Presi-
dent Trump said: I am not going to ac-
cept that because I am going to use
this moment to extort Congress for $5
billion for my wall.
He said to the people he refers to as
‘‘Chuck and Nancy’’: Give me the $5
billion.
They said: Why don’t you just open
the government? The Senate has
passed it almost unanimously, and the
House has passed it.
His answer was ‘‘because I will lose
leverage,’’ meaning: I will not have the
misery I am creating for the Federal
workforce. I will not have people who
can’t pay their mortgage, who can’t
pay for their early childhood edu-
cation, who can’t pay for their edu-
cation. I will not have their misery to
use to extort Members of Congress into
giving me $5 billion for my wall.
This is notwithstanding the fact that
he promised over and over and over
again when he was running for Presi-
dent that Mexico would pay for the
wall. That is not my talking point;
that is not my coming out here and
being unfair and trying to exploit a
weakness or a misstatement. I think it
is fair to say that almost all of his
campaign was based on the idea that
there was going to be a wall and that
Mexico was going to pay for the wall.
He could not have been clearer about
that.
Now he’s trying to shut down the
government because he knows that
Mexico will not pay for the wall. The
rest of us knew the whole time he was
telling America untruths about it. He
has now turned, instead, to the Amer-
ican taxpayer to say: OK. I wasn’t tell-
ing the truth about it then, but don’t
pay any attention to that. You now
have to pay for the wall.
Our first response to that is: No, you
haven’t even spent the money that has
been appropriated for the wall to date.
He has not built an inch of the wall.
Look it up.
The second problem is that anybody
who has studied this question for any
moment of time knows that his pro-
posal is a waste of money for the
United States. I am not going to be lec-
tured by anybody on the other side
about the need for border security. I
was part of the Gang of 8 that nego-
tiated the immigration bill in 2013.
That was a bill that had not $5 billion
of border security in it, not $2.3 billion
of border security in it, but $46 billion
of border security. It got 68 votes in
the Senate, never went to the House,
was never allowed to have a vote be-
cause of the tyranny of the so-called
Hastert rule, which requires people not
to vote their conscience but to vote
only along party and partisan lines—
another disgraceful chapter in modern
American political history. That $46
billion in that bill doubled the number
of security agents at our border. It
built 350 miles of what the President
now refers to as steel slats, as if he in-
vented that idea. It made sure we could
see every single inch of our border.
If the Chinese are going to be able to
see every single inch of the world, the
least we could do is see every inch of
our border, and in that bill we were
able to do that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.032 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S184 January 14, 2019
Meanwhile, he tells his base—and
FOX News repeats it every single
night—that Democrats are for open
borders; Democrats are for terrorists
pouring in over the southern border.
I have become convinced—and we
spent years working on immigration,
years working on border security,
years working with my most cherished
Republican colleagues on this issue in
a bipartisan way—that the President
doesn’t want the wall. He wants the en-
tertainment of the wall. He wants to
rally his base around the wall. Mean-
while, he is taking the leading econ-
omy in the world, a country with the
largest capacity for self-defense in
human history, and he has shut down
its government over a $5 billion, phony
wall. It is a disgrace.
It is a disgrace for all hard-working
Federal workers—and their families
who depend on them—who are out of
work, who are being furloughed, who
aren’t being paid. It is a disgrace for
every person who works in State and
local governments and in school dis-
tricts all across this Nation, who would
never think about shutting down their
government but who understand what
they possess as civil servants is a sa-
cred trust to their community and to
the next generation of Coloradans or of
folks from New Hampshire or of Alas-
kans or of Americans.
We can’t wait for the President—and
I will finish with this—because he ei-
ther doesn’t want the wall or he
doesn’t have the capacity to get to a
solution to it.
So we have to do our work as Sen-
ators. We have to vote to reopen the
government. If that were put on the
floor tomorrow, it would pass, and I
will bet that it would pass with a veto-
proof majority. Why? Because the con-
stituents of everybody in this place
would say: Are you out of your mind?
Don’t come back here and have another
townhall and explain why you shut
down the government over politics.
Instead, Democrats and Republicans
should come together in this Chamber
and set an example for the American
people and say: All is not lost. This ex-
ercise in a democratic Republic is
going to live to fight another day. We
have come to our senses. We are not
going to beat our own constituents to
death for the purpose of empty par-
tisan slogans or ideas that aren’t going
to advance the interests of the next
generation of Americans.
I worry every night that I am here
about what kind of history the next
generation of Americans is going to
write, about what we did when it was
our responsibility to make sure that
we fulfilled our commitment to them,
the same ones that generation after
generation after generation of Ameri-
cans have fulfilled for people who came
after them. That is what it means to be
a citizen in a Republic like ours.
We are violating every norm of that
approach to the work and allowing our
competitors around the world to create
advantages for themselves and poten-
tial liabilities for us. We shouldn’t let
this thing go into the 25th day or 26th
day or 27th day. We should end it now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to join my Democratic col-
leagues in sharing stories of what we
are hearing from our constituents who
are being impacted by this government
shutdown.
I want to take a minute to thank my
friend and colleague from Colorado for
his thoughtful and comprehensive and
passionate remarks about where we are
and why. This is a needless and terrible
exercise in politics, and we need to re-
open the government.
This senseless shutdown has been
dragging on now for weeks, affecting
vital government services and leaving
many Federal workers without pay.
With every day that passes without a
resolution, hard-working people are
dealing with greater uncertainty, and
many are facing tough choices in order
to protect their families and the way of
life they have worked so hard to build.
Like many of my colleagues, I have
heard from a number of people
throughout my State who have been af-
fected by this shutdown.
On Friday, I visited two nonprofits in
New Hampshire, the Nashua Soup
Kitchen and the Community Action
Partnership—most of us know it as
CAP of Strafford County—which pro-
vides vulnerable people with shelter,
food, and support. They are now in dan-
ger of being unable to provide services
that are a critical part of our safety
net. They also fear an increase in de-
mand for those services because unpaid
Federal workers will be turning to
them for help.
Federal employees and others af-
fected by the shutdown in New Hamp-
shire have also written to my office to
describe the hardships they are facing
and to urge us to reopen the govern-
ment. One of those Granite Staters has
been an air traffic controller for close
to 19 years. Sadly, on Christmas Eve,
her mother passed away, leaving her
with a terrible loss but also with the
stress and expenses of a funeral, all
while having to work Christmas Eve
and Christmas Day. On top of that, now
she has not received a paycheck for
that work.
She wrote:
The government shutdown has been the
last thing on my mind. But now the realiza-
tion of not being able to pay my mortgage,
credit cards from Christmas-time, and now
this funeral is too much to bear.
She put it simply, saying:
My colleagues and I deserve better.
I also heard from a Granite Stater
who works for the IRS. He wrote to me
saying:
The prospect of not having a paycheck for
an extended time is causing sleepless nights,
and I am recovering from an extended bout
of pneumonia that ended up putting me in
the hospital right before Christmas. . . . My
wife is worried about the bills for that. Last
night, I worked pushing out the car pay-
ments. Today I applied for unemployment
for the first time in 25 years, and talked to
my mortgage company.
He continues:
All this was under control a month ago,
but now has me worried, and is costing me
charges and interest.
He also detailed his concerns about a
coworker who is terrified of losing her
home if she is not able to pay her mort-
gage and of another who is waiting to
address a health issue until she has a
paycheck again. He said of him and his
fellow Federal workers:
We are hardworking, dedicated employees.
Our jobs involve long hours, nights away
from home, and risks to our health and safe-
ty. . . . All I want is to do my job and be paid
fairly for it.
Finally, I heard from a Granite
Stater whose husband is in the Coast
Guard and recently relocated to New
Hampshire. She said:
To say this shutdown is impacting us is an
understatement.
She wrote that she and her husband
recently relocated to New Hampshire
and spent every last penny purchasing
a home in the State where they first
met.
She said:
We knew it was going to be tight with our
two paychecks, but we would have enough to
make ends meet. . . . That all changed after
Christmas when we were informed that our
President was prepared to shut down the
government over a wall.
Since then, she and her husband have
watched, hoped, and prayed that fund-
ing would come because now they fear
they are going to have to call family
members to beg and to borrow money
to pay their mortgage and not go in de-
fault.
As bad as the direct impact of this
situation is on Federal workers and on
some of our most vulnerable and on
people and small businesses who rely
on government services, the shutdown
also has ripple effects on other people
and businesses across our State.
We must do better. The President’s
politically motivated crisis is dev-
astating for too many hard-working
families in New Hampshire and across
the country. They deserve better than
being used as pawns for a campaign slo-
gan created by President Trump.
It is time for these games to stop, for
the President’s shutdown to end, and
for our government to reopen. We need
a vote on the floor of the Senate on the
bipartisan bills that we already passed
that would reopen this government
with a veto-proof majority.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to-
night to speak about the shutdown. I
know the hour is late. I will cut short
my remarks.
But we are now, as you heard and as
many Americans know, in day 24 of the
shutdown. This is a shutdown that the
President, a number of weeks ago, said
that he—I am not quoting him exactly,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.033 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S185
January 14, 2019
but he seemed to want to have a shut-
down, and then he went forward and ex-
ecuted it even after this body, the Sen-
ate, voted unanimously just before
Christmas to extend funding for the
government until February so we could
continue debates until then. But he
chose to upend that and now we have
this shutdown lasting not just 24 days
but now the longest in American his-
tory. That is not a distinction any
President or administration or Con-
gress—especially the majority here in
the Senate—should be proud of.
I think it is very clear that there is
a way out of this, and the way out of
this would not foreclose—in fact, it
would enhance—the chances that we
can have a fulsome, thorough, policy-
oriented debate on border security,
which we should have. We should actu-
ally enlarge that to speak to or debate
a lot of major immigration issues and
maybe come up with a bipartisan bill
like we had in 2013, where 68 votes
brought forward a bill out of the Sen-
ate that had probably the best border
security provisions in recent American
history. It had a pathway to citizen-
ship. It was a long and arduous path
but a pathway, nonetheless. As well, it
had guest worker provisions so that
employers could have order, rules, and
certainty as to their workforce and our
immigration system.
We have a very broken system that
we would have been 5 years, at least,
into the fixing of or the repair of if we
had passed that bill—or if the House
had passed that bill. It had 68 votes in
the Senate, but it died in the House.
We haven’t seen a bill like that since—
certainly, not any bill that was as com-
prehensive.
Here we are with 24 days of govern-
ment employees being held hostage by
the administration. I think there is
some complicity here in the Senate, as
well, because we know there is a bill
that would open eight of the nine agen-
cies. That bill is here in the Senate. We
could pass it tonight, tomorrow morn-
ing, or tomorrow afternoon. We could
pass it very quickly because—remem-
ber, the first act of a Democratic-ma-
jority House was to pass Republican
appropriations bills—they are bills
that sailed through the Republican-ma-
jority Senate with little to no opposi-
tion.
That is where we find ourselves, with
a way out of this predicament, which I
believe would not only open up the gov-
ernment—which would be good for the
whole country and for both parties all
across the country and, especially, for
the people mostly adversely affected—
but it would also isolate the issue.
Right?
The President says that he wants to
have changes made, and he has a dif-
ferent view than I do, but let’s have
weeks of debate on border security or
everything else he wants to talk about.
Let’s bring in the experts. Let’s have a
dueling set of experts. Let’s see whom
the American people support. Do they
support one point of view that says we
want border security or the other point
of view that says that you want a wall
or some steel barrier? That is kind of
the choice. Do you want real border se-
curity or something else? We should
have a debate about that.
If anything, the debate about the
shutdown would be set aside because it
would be over. The government would
be opened. The country, the press, the
Senate, and the House would naturally
focus then on issues of dispute. That
would isolate the issue.
But it is very difficult to maintain an
argument or a reasoned debate—a de-
bate based upon facts and policy and
law, and, I hope, on the advice and con-
sultation of border security experts,
not just politicians. We have a lot of
smart people in the Congress, but very
few, if any of them, are border security
experts. Let’s listen to the experts.
Let’s take testimony from them like
they had back in 2013, which under-
girded the bill that got 68 votes. That
would be a way to isolate and focus on
the issue, instead of bringing misery to
what is now hundreds of thousands of
Americans—soon to grow to millions
and, then, tens of millions—because
those who miss paychecks today are a
very big number. That number will
grow when it starts to affect govern-
ment services, which I will outline
rather quickly because of the hour.
We have a lot of men and women in
the country now working without pay
or being furloughed, worrying about
whether they can make a mortgage
payment, put food on the table, or pay
their heating bill. They don’t have a
choice. They can’t just say: Well, sir, I
can’t pay the bill today because the
government shut down. So just wait
and you will be just fine.
No, they have to pay the bill. Thank
God we passed legislation for backpay,
but for some of these folks, backpay
will not be enough because their credit
will be adversely impacted. Their cred-
it may be destroyed even if they get
the backpay.
On Friday, 820,000 Federal workers,
including 14,000 in my home State of
Pennsylvania, missed a paycheck—
more than 1,300 Department of Agri-
culture employees, 990 Department of
Interior employees, 1,200 Federal Bu-
reau of Prisons employees, 775 FAA and
TSA employees, 700 EPA employees, as
well as assistant U.S. attorneys in dif-
ferent parts of Pennsylvania.
I will share a small part of a longer
letter that I got from a constituent.
This constituent said:
I am currently a furloughed U.S. State De-
partment employee and one of your constitu-
ents. I will soon miss a paycheck and, with
car payments, student loan payments, et
cetera, on the horizon, my family of five will
likely suffer. Beyond our personal hardship,
this shutdown is both expensive and counter-
productive to border security.
I couldn’t agree more with that con-
stituent and with the argument that
constituent makes, but what is even
more compelling, of course, is not the
argument about the policy debate here
in Washington. The more compelling
part of that, of course, is missing car
payments, student loan payments, and
a family of that size suffering. That is
real life. That is not just a Washington
theoretical debate. That is real life for
that family.
How about farmers? These are people
who are not Federal Government em-
ployees, but they are affected by the
fact that Federal Government employ-
ees are not at their desks or not in the
field. Farmers can’t visit their local
Farm Service Agency office to get as-
sistance.
We have a new farm bill. It is one of
the great bipartisan achievements.
Democrats and Republicans, House and
Senate, came together for a big farm
bill. That is great. I am glad we got
that done at the end of 2018.
The bad news is that some of that re-
quires advice, consultation, and en-
gagement with Farm Service Agency
offices. They are not able to give that
assistance.
How about seniors who rely upon
transportation services and nutrition
services provided by the Enhanced Mo-
bility of Seniors and Individuals with
Disabilities Program? That and the
Commodity Supplemental Food Pro-
gram, also known as the Senior Food
Box, are now at risk of being isolated.
These seniors are now at risk of being
isolated at home and without food.
Approximately 2,400 units of low-in-
come housing in Pennsylvania are in
jeopardy because the Department of
Housing and Urban Development will
not be able to renew a contract. More
than two-thirds of the people who re-
ceive this type of assistance are seniors
and people with disabilities. The people
who benefit from this type of housing
assistance have average incomes of less
than $13,000.
Two million Pennsylvanians receive
food assistance. It is actually about 1.8
million, but it is almost 2 million
Pennsylvanians who receive assistance
through the SNAP program, or the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program. We used to call it food
stamps. They may lose access if the
shutdown drags on much longer.
I know the administration says:
Don’t worry. Everything is OK for Feb-
ruary.
That is, in essence, what the admin-
istration said, and they haven’t given
us a definitive word about March.
So of those 1.8 million Pennsylva-
nians, a huge share of them have a dis-
ability, and a huge share of them are
children in households who can’t sup-
port themselves and can’t afford food
on their own because they are children.
They benefit, as well. They are part of
the 1.8.
A lot of them, of course, are seniors
who deserve this program because that
is what we do in America. We try to
help people who need food assistance.
That is called being America—being
the strong country that we are, show-
ing how strong we are not just by vir-
tue of our military and our GDP—ev-
eryone knows that. No one comes close
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.035 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S186 January 14, 2019
in the world. But we are also strong be-
cause we say we care about people with
disabilities. We want to make sure if
they need Medicaid, they get that kind
of healthcare. If they need food assist-
ance, we will get that for them. We
care about our seniors, too, because we
are America and we are strong, and it
is an American value.
These programs are important. When
they are shut down, that is not an
American value being upheld. When we
talk about these programs and about
food assistance, this is also real life—
literally, today or the day when you
lose food assistance. Why should that
assistance even be the subject of uncer-
tainty—uncertainty because someone
doesn’t get their way on a policy mat-
ter here in Washington?
I guess it is OK for any Member of
Congress because we are a coequal
branch of government. It is not like
the President is higher than the Con-
gress. We are coequal. I guess because
the President wants to shut the gov-
ernment down to make a point about a
policy matter, I guess that should be
an option that any Member of the
House or the Senate should exercise.
So the next time, it will be a Member
of Congress, when you lose a battle on
a policy matter or you don’t propose
the funding on time, which is what
happened here. They didn’t ask for the
money at the beginning of the year. So
they tried to shoehorn it in at the end
of the year. I guess if you lose the pol-
icy debate or your bill doesn’t pass,
you vote to shut the government
down—take action to shut the govern-
ment down like the President did.
I don’t think that is the way any
party or any country should operate.
So 200,000 Pennsylvanians may lose ac-
cess to the Women, Infants, and Chil-
dren Program, which provides critical
nutritional support to mothers and
young children—200,000.
So there are the 2 million I talked
about. There are 1.8 million people who
are getting the benefits of the SNAP
program, which, by the way, helps all
Americans. People ask: What do you
mean by that? It does. If you spend a
buck on SNAP, you get $1.80 back in
economic activity because people have
to eat, and they tend to spend that
money quickly. It helps everybody. So
the SNAP program is not just a nice
thing to do for people who have disabil-
ities or for seniors or children; the
SNAP program helps all of us because
it helps to stimulate the economy.
Even if you are disinterested in sup-
porting this program but are interested
in having your own American economy
grow, you should support the SNAP
program. It is also the right thing to
do because it is a darned good program.
When you add 1.1 million people who
are getting SNAP and then 200,000 peo-
ple who benefit from the WIC Program,
you will have gotten over 2 million just
in one State.
These programs are not out of money
this week or in the month of January
or in the month of February, but we
don’t know about March yet. We
haven’t gotten any guarantees about
March. Even if we get a guarantee
about March, what about April? That is
far from guaranteed. So that is what
we are talking about here. Why should
these people have to wait? Why should
a farmer have to wait weeks or months
to talk to a Farm Service Agency of-
fice? Why should families who have
food insecurity as part of their lives
not be able to get something to eat be-
cause we are having a policy debate
here? Why shouldn’t we give them the
certainty that they vote for us to en-
sure?
It is unconscionable and unaccept-
able, and I wish I could come up with
better words than that because they
are not at all adequate. It is uncon-
scionable that children and moms and
hungry Americans will suffer because
of this shutdown.
The President says he is concerned
about crime and the flow of dangerous
drugs into the country. I agree with
him. A lot of Americans do, of course.
Yet the shutdown is significantly im-
pairing the FBI and the DEA’s law en-
forcement efforts. These are part of the
list of Agencies that are impacted.
Agents are still doing their work to
keep the public safe. They are dedi-
cated, and they are going to do their
work no matter what.
Yet, with many analysts on furlough,
it is getting harder and harder to work
effectively to keep the public safe. I
want an FBI that has all of the re-
sources it needs, with everyone on
duty, with everyone working. If the
FBI is undermined because of the shut-
down, we are less safe. If the DEA, the
Drug Enforcement Agency, is under-
mined because of the shutdown, we are
less safe. You don’t have to be a law
enforcement expert to say that.
It goes on from there. I have more,
but I will not because of the hour. I
will go back to the beginning.
There are adverse impacts today with
people not being paid as of Friday.
That alone is compelling and urgent
and insulting, frankly, to us as Ameri-
cans and is directly insulting to those
families who don’t deserve this. It is
going to get a lot worse, though. That
number is going to grow and grow, not
just with those who are directly af-
fected with their paychecks and in
their livelihoods and their credit rat-
ings and all of that but with people
who depend upon the Federal Govern-
ment for help when they are vulner-
able, when they are hungry, when they
want an answer to a question, when
they want to close on a mortgage or do
a long list of other things.
For the life of me, I do not under-
stand why we would not pass a bill that
is sitting in this Chamber that would
open eight of the nine Agencies—that
are closed—until the end of the fiscal
year, September 30, so the shutdown
will be over for those eight agencies.
Then you would have one Agency,
Homeland Security, that would get
short-term funding, which would be an-
other reason we could continue the de-
bate and another way to focus atten-
tion on border security and anything
else anybody wants to talk about here.
It would focus the attention on that
issue and remove the issue that is in
front of all of us, which is that 25 per-
cent of the government—and a lot of it
affecting a lot of people—is closed,
shuttered, not working, not effective,
not delivering on results.
There is an easy solution here that
not only does not close the debate on
border security—effective, expert-rec-
ommended border security—but, if any-
thing, enhances the possibility that
there will be a more engaged debate on
border security. As I said, I hope it will
grow into a larger immigration debate.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
DAINES). Under the previous order, the
Senate stands adjourned until 10 a.m.
tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:50 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, January 15,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14JA6.036 S14JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E39
January 14, 2019
HONORING JAMES KING AND
CHARLES COBB FOR THEIR 55
YEARS OF SERVICE IN THE
KEESEVILLE VOLUNTEER FIRE
DEPARTMENT
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor both James ‘‘Jim’’ King and
Charles ‘‘Charlie’’ Cobb for their 55 years of
service in the Keeseville Volunteer Fire De-
partment.
Jim and Charlie both started at the Depart-
ment in 1964 and have shared countless sto-
ries and adventures together since then.
Throughout their 55 years of service, regard-
less of changes to technology or personnel,
the two have remained life-long friends and
are steadfast in their commitment to the safety
of Keeseville and the surrounding commu-
nities.
Jim has admired the fire station since he
was a child and became the first in his family
to join. During his tenure with the Department,
he has held the positions of Fire Chief, Assist-
ant Fire Chief, and Fire Commissioner, and
started the Department’s enhanced 911 sys-
tem. Jim also served as President of the New
York State Association of Fire Chiefs in 2003.
Prior to joining the Department, Jim served for
15 years in the Army, which included a de-
ployment to Korea and assignment to the
962nd Ordinance Company in Plattsburgh.
For Charlie, serving as a firefighter has
been a family tradition. After obtaining his li-
cense, Charlie often drove his dad—who
served with the department for thirty-eight
years—to fire calls, and soon followed in his
father’s footsteps and became a firefighter
himself. During his impressive fifty-five-year
career with the Department, Charlie served as
Fire Commissioner, Assistant Fire Chief, Fire
Police Captain, and EMS Captain.
Having devoted over half a century of their
lives to fire protection, Jim and Charlie are ex-
emplary members of the community. On be-
half of New York’s 21st District, I want to join
the Keeseville Volunteer Fire Department in
honoring Jim King and Charlie Cobb and
thanking them for their many years of public
service.
f
RECOGNIZING FORMER MAYOR
SCOTT EISENHAUER
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Scott Eisenhauer, who recently
retired as Mayor of Danville after 16 years of
service.
Like many other cities, Danville has faced
its share of challenges. Yet, through it all,
Mayor Eisenhauer was a beacon of hope and
resiliency as a tireless advocate for his home
town and a superb manager of its affairs. Over
the past few years, I have come to know Scott
and I have seen firsthand the many positive
results his hard work has brought.
Today, Danville is a far better place to live,
work, and raise a family than it was when
Scott won his first election in 2003. Numerous
large-scale economic development projects
have been realized and more are in the works.
Public housing programs will be accomplished
in early 2019. Additionally, a long list of infra-
structure and quality of life projects were com-
pleted under Scott’s stewardship.
His list of accomplishments are many, but
perhaps the most remarkable aspect of Scott’s
tenure as mayor was how successfully he was
able to gain a consensus with the many stake-
holders he engaged. His working relationship
with city aldermen, the business community,
civic and community leaders, and the state
and federal government officials was exem-
plary and a major key to his success.
Madam Speaker, ‘‘Eisenhauer will be
missed’’ was the title of a recent editorial in
Danville’s newspaper. It is a good way to sum
up how the city feels about their former mayor.
Indeed, Scott’s boundless energy and endless
enthusiasm will be missed by all, and I wish
him the very best as he begins a new chapter
in his professional life.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF
DOUGLAS VERVERS
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
recognition of Douglas Ververs, who retired in
2018 after a 30-year career with the Cornell
Cooperative Extension (CCE). Mr. Ververs has
served the CCE in various capacities through-
out the years and has remained steadfast in
his commitment to support economic develop-
ment and the agriculture in Upstate New York.
Mr. Ververs graduated from SUNY Oswego
with a degree in Industrial Arts & Technology
Education in 1979. He spent his first eight
years after college working in sales for the
Black Clawson Company in Fulton, but
changed his career trajectory in January 1988
when he started working for CCE. He first
served as a Small Business and Tourism Edu-
cator for CCE Oswego County, where he
taught businesses how to utilize local attrac-
tions for their customers. In 2006, Mr. Ververs
became Executive Director of CCE Cayuga
County after 17 years working for CCE
Oswego.
Mr. Ververs oversaw all of CCE’s operations
in Cayuga County during his tenure as Execu-
tive Director. This included conducting out-
reach programs for Cayuga County residents
in the fields of agriculture, environmental edu-
cation, and small business and nutrition. Addi-
tionally, Mr. Ververs implemented a 4–H youth
development program through CCE Cayuga.
He was also responsible for many administra-
tive responsibilities at CCE Cayuga.
Outside of his CCE Cayuga activities, Mr.
Ververs was a team member with the New
York Sea Grant Program in Costal Business
Development from 1988 to 2002. He also
shared his knowledge of recreation and the
environment by teaching classes at the SUNY
College of Environmental Science and For-
estry from 2003 to 2005. Mr. Ververs has
been honored many times throughout his ca-
reer for his work in Central New York, includ-
ing his receipt of the Community and Rural
Development Innovator Award in 2001, the
Cornell Cooperative Extension Distinguished
Service Career Award in 2014, and induction
into the Oswego County Tourism Ambassador
Hall-of-Fame in 2005.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
House to join me in honoring the distinguished
career of Douglas Ververs. He has improved
the lives of many Central New Yorkers, as
well as the environment, through his diligent
service to his community. His investment in
the success of his local community is exem-
plary of a model citizen and is a standard from
which we can all learn.
f
HONORING DR. BHAGWATI MISTRY
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize a member of the community who
this year will serve as a delegate to the 15th
Pravasi Bharatiya Divas celebration, which will
be held in Varanasi, India from January 21 to
23.
Dr. Mistry was born in India but emigrated
to the United States in 1978. She has served
the community as a pediatric dentist, deliv-
ering high quality treatment and care to young
children and teenagers in New York for the
past 38 years.
The Pravasi Bharatiya Divas event occurs
every two years, and is an opportunity for the
Government of India to recognize the contribu-
tions made by the overseas Indian community.
This year, the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas is as-
sociated with two other major events for India,
the Kumbh Mela and India’s 70th Republic
Day. By including Dr. Mistry among the dele-
gates for the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, the
celebration is further enriched because of her
tremendous contributions to the Tarrytown
community.
Congratulations to Dr. Mistry on receiving
this wonderful and well-deserved recognition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14JA8.001 E14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E40 January 14, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF THE FIFTH
ANNIVERSARY OF BEAUTIFUL:
THE CAROLE KING MUSICAL AND
ALL THE AMAZING CONTRIBU-
TIONS THAT CAROLE KING HAS
MADE TO NEW YORK AND OUR
COUNTRY
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize my
dear friend Carole King, arguably the most
prodigious singer-songwriter of our century, for
the fifth anniversary of Beautiful: The Carole
King Musical which is based on her life and
career.
Beautiful: the Carole King Musical opened
on Broadway on January 12, 2014. After its
first season the show won a GRAMMY for
Best Musical Theater Album as well as two
Tony awards. In 2015, it opened on London’s
West End, garnering 2 Olivier Awards. The
show is now entering its sixth year.
Carole King launched her extraordinary mu-
sical career as a hit songwriter at the young
age of seventeen with the song ‘‘Will You
Love Me Tomorrow,’’ co-written with her then-
husband Gerry Goffin. With Goffin and others,
she went on to write dozens of chart-topping
songs throughout the 1960’s. King made her
breakthrough as a musical artist in her own
right when she released her era-defining
album Tapestry in 1971, which stayed on the
charts for over six consecutive years and was
inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in
1998.
To date, King has composed more than 100
hit singles and amassed numerous prestigious
musical awards, including four Grammy
Awards. She was the first woman to receive
the Library of Congress Gershwin Prize for
Popular Song, which she was honored with in
2013. She has also been inducted into the
Songwriters Hall of Fame as well as the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame and was a Kennedy
Center Honoree in 2015.
In addition to her prolific musical career,
King has also dedicated her exceptional abili-
ties towards environmental activism and en-
suring the conservation of American wildlife,
parks, and wild places. King is a long-time
resident of Idaho and began working with the
Alliance for the Wild Rockies in 1990, testi-
fying on Capitol Hill against legislation that
would harm Idahoan natural spaces. She has
also been a stalwart and outspoken advocate
of the Northern Rockies Ecosystem Protection
Act (NREPA), a bill I have introduced in every
Congress since the 103rd Congress. King tes-
tified in favor of NREPA in 2009 before the
House Natural Resources Subcommittee on
National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the extraordinary contribu-
tions of Carole King, whose environmentalism
and musical talents have bettered New York
and our nation and inspired a Broadway musi-
cal.
IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE EX-
TRAORDINARY LIFE OF MAYOR
LARRY PAUL LANGFORD
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the extraordinary life and
legacy of the late Mayor Larry Paul Langford.
Mayor Langford was a beloved member of the
Birmingham, Fairfield and Jefferson County
communities, who had bold dreams for the
communities he loved and served He pro-
moted economic development and made sig-
nificant investments in the children and
schools of Fairfield and Birmingham. Mayor
Langford will be remembered as a larger than
life personality who broke boundaries as the
first black reporter for the region at WBRC; the
first black Mayor of Fairfield, AL; the first black
President of the Jefferson County Commis-
sion; and as a former Mayor of Birmingham. A
Vietnam veteran, Mayor Langford served in
public office in multiple capacities for nearly 23
years and will be greatly missed.
On March 17, 1946, Larry Langford was
born to John Langford and Lillian Nance
Langford, as the oldest of six children. He
grew up understanding the importance of a
good education and having a strong founda-
tion of faith to guide him. His mother often
stressed that a quality education was the key
to improving one’s lot in life and encouraged
all of her children to strive for academic suc-
cess. A proud graduate of A. H. Parker High
School in Birmingham, Langford took his
mother’s advice to heart, but placed his
dreams of attaining a college degree on hold
when he chose to enlist into the United States
Air Force shortly after finishing high school.
After serving for five years in the Air Force
during the Vietnam Era, Langford returned
home with a renewed sense of service to his
community and quickly completed his college
education at the University of Alabama at Bir-
mingham (UAB). Langford attained a Bachelor
of Arts degree in Social and Behavioral
Sciences and began working for a local news
station. Langford became the first African
American male to become a news reporter for
WBRC 6 News in its region The importance of
this role was never lost on Langford. He knew
that after the tumultuous decade before, to
have an African American man reporting the
news in this area was just one of several
signs that the City of Birmingham was chang-
ing. Langford did well as a reporter, using his
charisma and outgoing personality, he was
able to speak with the people of Birmingham
every day and record their stories.
After several years working as a reporter,
Langford decided to run for his first political of-
fice. He was elected to the Birmingham City
Council in 1977 where he quickly became
known as the ‘‘liveliest and most outspoken’’
of the council members, as well as the most
media-savvy. He would frequently brief report-
ers before meetings and would then provide
the most memorable or controversial quotes
packaged in sound bites for television cov-
erage. During his time on the Birmingham
Council, he also worked as a radio news di-
rector and contributed to the Birmingham
Times. After an unsuccessful run for Mayor of
the City of Birmingham against fellow council-
man Richard Arrington, Jr. in 1979, Langford
temporarily retreated from public service.
By 1982, Langford had moved to Fairfield,
AL and married the love of his life, Melva Fer-
guson A few years later, Langford decided to
return to public service and help the City of
Fairfield respond to the complaints of the com-
munity. Langford ran for Mayor and won hand-
ily, defeating a crowded field of several can-
didates. Langford became the first African
American Mayor of the City of Fairfield in
1988, another first for the charismatic public
servant. After his election, he began an ag-
gressive campaign to revitalize the city that in-
cluded a massive project that would fix the
streets and sidewalks of Fairfield. After a suc-
cessful lobbying attempt to the Alabama State
Legislature, Langford was granted more power
in his role as Mayor over the Fairfield City
Council, that allowed him to increase the city’s
sales tax to save Fairfield City Schools which
were facing bankruptcy and the possible threat
of having to close all of the public schools in
the City. It was there that Langford became an
outspoken advocate for students and began to
find ways to make sure students who attended
Fairfield City Schools would be ready for the
technological advancements they would be
facing in the near future.
While the Mayor of Fairfield, Langford also
distinguished himself by pushing for regional
cooperation in economic development and he
became the driving force behind an agreement
of 11 Jefferson County municipalities to join
forces in 1998 to finance the construction of
Visionland Amusement Park in Bessemer, a
$90 million project.
During his fourth term as Fairfield Mayor,
Langford set his eye on the Jefferson County
Commission where he hoped his connections
in Jefferson County would allow for stronger
regional partnership amongst the cities of Jef-
ferson County. Langford was elected to the
Jefferson County Commission in 2002, defeat-
ing incumbent Jeff Germany. After being elect-
ed to the Commission, he was then elected
President of the Jefferson County Commis-
sion; becoming the first African American to
do so. A strong believer in helping students
succeed, he proposed a 1 percent sales tax
that helped build 30 new schools and gen-
erated over $1 billion in revenue. These new
resources were immediately put to use by the
nearly 36,000 students who were a part of the
Jefferson County School System at that time.
This was one of Langford’s most successful
projects and the effects of these schools are
still felt throughout the county today.
In 2006, Langford attempted a second run
for Mayor of Birmingham This time, he was
successful and won enough votes to avoid a
run-off election. Mayor Langford was sworn in
on November 13, 2007. Just like he had done
in Fairfield and on the Jefferson County Com-
mission, as Birmingham Mayor, he put stu-
dents first. Langford wanted to make sure that
these students were getting every opportunity
possible. Mayor Langford struck an agreement
with a foundation that provided computers to
children from developing countries, and got
them to expand their reach to Birmingham City
School. Nearly 17,000 elementary and middle
school students received laptops that year.
While Mayor Langford’s 23-year political ca-
reer resulted in many successful public
projects, his service was not without its con-
troversy. Mayor Langford’s tenure as Bir-
mingham mayor was cut short when a jury
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14JA8.005 E14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E41
January 14, 2019
found him guilty of public corruption on Octo-
ber 28, 2009 and was sentenced to 15 years
in federal prison. After serving eight and half
years, on December 28, 2018, due to his fail-
ing health, Mayor Langford’s sentence was
commuted by a federal judge giving compas-
sion release. The next day, Mayor Langford
was transferred from a federal prison hospital
in Lexington, Kentucky to Birmingham by am-
bulance where he was admitted to a Bir-
mingham hospital and remained until his death
on January 8, 2019.
Mayor Langford was an active member of
St. Mary’s Catholic Church in Fairfield, AL and
frequently held bible studies to help promote
the Word of God. He wanted to help the
young men and women in his community to
be guided by the strength and lessons of the
Bible and to help heal the community through
faith. Mayor Langford is survived by his be-
loved wife, Melva; son, Ronald Strothers;
brother, Oliver Nance; niece, Lena Powe
McDonald; sister-in-law, Casi Ferguson; two
grandchildren, Ronald and Jared Strothers;
and a host of other nieces, nephews, friends
and supporters.
On a personal note, I am grateful for the
kindness shown to me by Mayor and Mrs.
Langford when I first moved to Birmingham.
Mayor Langford was a man of big vision and
a huge heart that has left our community bet-
ter because of his many initiatives. It was out
of respect for his many good deeds that I was
honored to play a part in getting Mayor
Langford’s compassionate release due to his
failing health so that he could spend his final
days in Birmingham. Mayor Langford died as
he lived—with dignity, distinction and as a free
man with his family, friends and community
who loved him deeply.
On behalf of Alabama’s 7th Congressional
District, I ask my colleagues to join me in re-
membering the life of Mayor Larry Paul
Langford. May we celebrate the totality of his
life today and honor his great works during his
23 years of service to Fairfield, Birmingham,
and Jefferson County, Alabama.
f
RECOGNIZING JDRF ADVOCATE
MAX SELMSER
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise in rec-
ognition of Max Selmser, a constituent in my
district living with type 1 diabetes. Now 13
years old, Max has lived with type 1 diabetes
for over seven years and has become an ad-
vocate for the Juvenile Diabetes Research
Foundation (JDRF). Max’s efforts have en-
gaged his family, friends, and community in
finding a cure for type 1 diabetes.
Type 1 diabetes presents significant obsta-
cles for those struggling with the illness. Af-
flicted individuals must constantly manage the
disease through insulin shots to stabilize their
blood sugar and are at long-term risk for var-
ious severe complications. However, the mil-
lions of people living with type 1 diabetes have
bonded together to form a strong community
working to discover a cure in the near future.
Max is a perfect example of a member of this
community.
Max participates in various awareness and
fundraising events for type 1 diabetes. He has
long served as a JDRF Youth Ambassador
and Youth Advocacy leader since his diag-
nosis. In these roles, he informs his commu-
nity about type 1 diabetes, how he lives with
the illness, and offers his advice to newly di-
agnosed children. Additionally, he is active in
the nationally popular JDRF One Walk and
raised $35,000 to research a cure with his
walk team.
For the 2019 JDRF Children’s Congress,
Max aspires to be a delegate from New York
State in order to bring his advocacy efforts to
Washington. He will have the opportunity to
meet with lawmakers to discuss the funding
needs of the Special Diabetes Program if se-
lected. Max is an inspiring individual and is an
excellent role model for children living through
type 1 diabetes. He has my full support as he
continues the application process.
We have a responsibility to invest in cures
and assist researchers in their efforts to cure
the diseases plaguing millions of Americans,
and costing our nation billions of dollars. Type
1 diabetes is no exception and Congress must
invest in the medical specialists searching for
a solution to this ailment. Congress has taken
positive steps forward with the 21st Century
Cures Act, but these efforts must continue.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
House to join me in recognizing Max Selmser.
Living through any disease is no easy task but
Max doesn’t let his disease prevent him from
reaching his full potential. I thank Max, as well
as advocates across the country, for their ef-
forts to find a cure for type 1 diabetes. I am
optimistic one day soon a solution to this ill-
ness will be discovered thanks to the commit-
ment of organizations such as the JDRF.
f
SUPPORTING H.R. 206, THE EN-
COURAGING SMALL BUSINESS
INNOVATORS ACT AND H.R. 246,
THE STIMULATING INNOVATION
THROUGH PROCUREMENT ACT
OF 2019
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I want to state my support for H.R. 206, the
Encouraging Small Business Innovators Act
and H.R. 246, the Stimulating Innovation
through Procurement Act of 2019. I thank
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ, Congressman
ROUDA, Congresswoman FINKENAUER and
other colleagues on both committees for their
work to advance these bills to the House
Floor.
Through competitive research and develop-
ment grants and contracts, the SBIR and
STTR programs provide opportunities for inno-
vative small businesses to participate in the
federal research and development enterprise.
The Federal R&D enterprise supports innova-
tion by funding the best and brightest at our
great research institutions, our national labs,
and small businesses across all sectors of our
economy. The SBIR and STTR programs
have proven to be an important part of that in-
vestment. Over the years, the Science Com-
mittee has supported strong funding as well as
improvements in policy and oversight for the
SBIR and STTR programs. Last Congress,
several important pilot programs were ex-
tended and other updates were made in law
that help make the programs more effective
and efficient. These include supporting more
early-state funding for small business
innovators, providing funding for important
agency outreach and program administration,
and streamlining reporting requirements.
The Science Committee considered several
of the provisions in H.R. 246 in the 115th Con-
gress. As these two bills advance, the Com-
mittee looks forward to working with our col-
leagues on the Small Business Committee to
review and adopt policy changes in the SBIR
and STTR programs that continue to strength-
en the partnership between innovative small
business and our federal research agencies.
Further, I hope we will continue working to-
gether to ensure that the agencies prioritize
outreach and other activities to increase the
participation of women and minority-owned in-
novative small businesses in the SBIR and
STTR programs.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 206
and H.R. 246.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
on January 14, 2019, I regret I was unable to
vote due to an important conflict in my con-
gressional district. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 30, H.R.
116, the Investing in Main Street Act.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF HERB KELLEHER, CEO OF
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 14, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
as the representative of the 30th Congres-
sional District of Texas, I rise today to recog-
nize the life and legacy of Mr. Herb Kelleher,
CEO of Southwest Airlines.
Herb Kelleher was one of a kind. He em-
bodied the colorful spirit and joyful nature of
the airline he cofounded. He exuded this
bright personality whether he was on tele-
vision, in a room full of people, or speaking to
just one individual. Beyond instilling the value
of fun in his company, he revolutionized air
travel by making the low-cost, low-fare airline
accessible for many Americans.
Born in New Jersey, he studied English and
philosophy at Wesleyan University and then
law at New York University. It was his wife,
Joan, whom he met on a blind date, who per-
suaded him to set up a law firm in Texas.
Southwest Airlines was born not on the back
of a cocktail napkin as he later liked to boast,
but when one of his legal clients, Rollin King,
owner of a small commuter airline, and his
banker, John Parker, came to his office. Both
men found travelling between the cities of
Houston, Dallas and San Antonio inconvenient
and expensive and thought they could do it
better. With Herb Kelleher’s help, they suc-
ceeded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14JA8.006 E14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E42 January 14, 2019
Since it’s conception as a public company in
1971, Southwest has succeeded by just about
every measure. In more than 45 years, in an
industry filled with bankruptcies and mergers,
Southwest has never had a year where it lost
money. Under Mr. Kelleher’s leadership,
Southwest broke through in an industry en-
trenched with big names to offer a new spin
on commercial air travel. In addition, the com-
pany promoted a healthy work environment
before the idea became a widely-embraced
corporate concept.
To Mr. Kelleher, Southwest Airlines was
more than just another company; to him, it
was a cause. His goal was to keep fares low
and fly to as many cities as possible. In his
words, the focus was to ‘‘democratize the
skies’’ by making it as easy, affordable, and
flexible for everyday Americans to travel. Such
a mission may seem quaint today, but it was
a revolutionary aspiration back when he first
began.
Madam Speaker, the life of Herb Kelleher
that we celebrate today is a testament to the
value of great character and honesty. Because
of Mr. Kelleher, Southwest Airlines made an
essential contribution to America’s quality of
life. And most importantly, for Dallas and Tex-
ans statewide, Mr. Kelleher made an essential
and long-lasting economic contribution to our
region. Today as we reflect on his life, it is
safe to say that the late Mr. Kelleher made a
very real contribution to our world, and we are
all witnessing the benefit of those contributions
today.
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Jan-
uary 15, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 16
9:30 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
To continue hearings to examine the
nomination of William Pelham Barr, of
Virginia, to be Attorney General, De-
partment of Justice.
SH–216
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine fighting
elder fraud, focusing on progress made
and work to be done.
SD–562
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules for the 116th
Congress.
SD–106
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to
be Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–406
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters.
SH–219
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine the future
of nuclear power, focusing on advanced
reactors.
SD–138
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14JA8.010 E14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D37
Monday, January 14, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S165–S186
Measures Introduced: Three bills and one resolu-
tion were introduced, as follows: S. 112–114, and S.
Res. 17. Page S181
Measures Passed:
Congratulating the North Dakota State Univer-
sity Football Team: Senate agreed to S. Res. 17,
congratulating the North Dakota State University
football team for winning the 2018 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Football Cham-
pionship Subdivision title. Page S182
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act: Senate resumed consideration of the mo-
tion to proceed to consideration of S. 1, to make im-
provements to certain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt
the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people.
Pages S166–79
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 50 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. 3), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Page S174
Senator McConnell entered a motion to reconsider
the vote by which cloture was not invoked on the
motion to proceed to consideration of the bill.
Page S174
Appointments:
National Security Commission on Artificial In-
telligence: The Chair, pursuant to Public Law
115–232, on behalf of the Democratic Leader of the
Senate and the Vice Chairman of the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, appointed the following indi-
vidual as a member of the National Security Com-
mission on Artificial Intelligence: Christopher A. R.
Darby of New Hampshire vice Senator Heinrich.
Page S182
Messages from the House: Page S180
Measures Referred: Page S180
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S180–81
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S181
Additional Cosponsors: Page S181
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S181
Additional Statements: Page S180
Privileges of the Floor: Page S181
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—3) Page S174
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:50 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Jan-
uary 15, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S182.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Committee announced
the following subcommittee assignments for the
116th Congress:
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies: Sen-
ators Hoeven (Chair), McConnell, Collins, Blunt,
Moran, Hyde-Smith, Kennedy, Merkley, Feinstein,
Tester, Udall, Leahy, and Baldwin.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies: Senators Moran (Chair), Alexander, Mur-
kowski, Collins, Graham, Boozman, Capito, Ken-
nedy, Rubio, Shaheen, Leahy, Feinstein, Reed,
Coons, Schatz, Manchin, and Van Hollen.
Subcommittee on Department of Defense: Senators Shelby
(Chair), McConnell, Alexander, Collins, Murkowski,
Graham, Blunt, Moran, Hoeven, Boozman, Durbin,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14JA9.REC D14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D38 January 14, 2019
Leahy, Feinstein, Murray, Reed, Tester, Udall,
Schatz, and Baldwin.
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development: Senators
Alexander (Chair), McConnell, Shelby, Collins, Mur-
kowski, Graham, Hoeven, Kennedy, Hyde-Smith,
Feinstein, Murray, Tester, Durbin, Udall, Shaheen,
Merkley, and Coons.
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Govern-
ment: Senators Kennedy (Chair), Moran, Boozman,
Daines, Lankford, Coons, Durbin, Manchin, and Van
Hollen.
Subcommittee on Department of Homeland Security: Sen-
ators Capito (Chair), Shelby, Murkowski, Hoeven,
Kennedy, Hyde-Smith, Lankford, Tester, Shaheen,
Leahy, Murray, Baldwin, and Manchin.
Subcommittee on Department of the Interior, Environment,
and Related Agencies: Senators Murkowski (Chair),
Alexander, Blunt, McConnell, Capito, Hyde-Smith,
Daines, Rubio, Udall, Feinstein, Leahy, Reed, Tester,
Merkley, and Van Hollen.
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies:
Senators Blunt (Chair), Shelby, Alexander, Graham,
Moran, Capito, Kennedy, Hyde-Smith, Rubio,
Lankford, Murray, Durbin, Reed, Shaheen, Merkley,
Schatz, Baldwin, Murphy, and Manchin.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch: Senators Hyde-
Smith (Chair), Shelby, Lankford, Murphy, and Van
Hollen.
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies: Senators Boozman (Chair),
McConnell, Murkowski, Hoeven, Collins, Capito,
Rubio, Daines, Schatz, Tester, Murray, Reed, Udall,
Baldwin, and Murphy.
Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs: Senators Graham (Chair), McConnell,
Blunt, Boozman, Moran, Rubio, Lankford, Daines,
Leahy, Durbin, Shaheen, Coons, Merkley, Murphy,
and Van Hollen.
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and Related Agencies: Senators Collins
(Chair), Shelby, Alexander, Blunt, Boozman, Capito,
Graham, Hoeven, Daines, Reed, Murray, Durbin,
Feinstein, Coons, Schatz, Murphy, and Manchin.
Senators Shelby and Leahy are ex officio members of each
subcommittee.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 18 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 527–544; and 4 resolutions, H.J. Res.
27–28; and H. Res. 40–41, were introduced.
Pages H543–44
Additional Cosponsors: Page H545
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Brown (MD) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H521
Recess: The House recessed at 12:05 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H522
Recess: The House recessed at 2:02 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H522
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Investing in Main Street Act of 2019: H.R. 116,
to amend the Small Business Investment Act of
1958 to increase the amount that certain banks and
savings associations may invest in small business in-
vestment companies, subject to the approval of the
appropriate Federal banking agency, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 403 yeas to 2 nays, Roll No. 30;
Pages H522–24, H534
Stimulating Innovation through Procurement
Act of 2019: H.R. 246, to amend the Small Business
Act to require senior procurement executives, pro-
curement center representatives, and the Office of
Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization to as-
sist small business concerns participating in the
Small Business Innovation Research Program and the
Small Business Technology Transfer Program;
Pages H524–26
Encouraging Small Business Innovation Act:
H.R. 206, to amend the small business laws to cre-
ate certain requirements with respect to the SBIR
and STTR program; and Pages H526–28
TANF Extension Act of 2019: H.R. 430, to ex-
tend the program of block grants to States for tem-
porary assistance for needy families and related pro-
grams through June 30, 2019. Pages H531–34
Recess: The House recessed at 5:10 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:32 p.m. Page H534
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:01 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14JA9.REC D14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D39
January 14, 2019
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Expanding Contracting Opportunities for Small
Businesses Act of 2019: H.R. 190, to amend the
Small Business Act to eliminate the inclusion of op-
tion years in the award price for sole source con-
tracts. Pages H528–31
Privileged Resolution—Intent to Offer: Rep-
resentative Rush announced his intent to offer a
privileged resolution. Pages H536–37
Privileged Resolution—Intent to Offer: Rep-
resentative Ryan announced his intent to offer a
privileged resolution in the form of H. Res. 40.
Page H537
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H528.
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appears
on page H534. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:23 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
JANUARY 15, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nomination of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to
be Attorney General, Department of Justice, 9:30 a.m.,
SH–216.
Select Committee on Intelligence: closed business meeting
to consider pending intelligence matters; to be imme-
diately followed by a closed hearing to examine certain
intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
268, the ‘‘Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019’’, 3
p.m., H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:01 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14JA9.REC D14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D40 January 14, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, January 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate may consider any cleared
legislative and executive business.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for
their respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, January 15
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E39
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E41, E41
Katko, John, N.Y., E39, E41
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E40
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E40, E41
Shimkus, John, Ill., E39
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E39
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:01 Jan 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D14JA9.REC D14JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
