Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1341
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2019 No. 20
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Gracious and merciful God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
In this Chamber, where the people’s
House gathers, we pause to offer You
gratitude for the gift of this good land
on which we live and for this great Na-
tion which You have inspired in devel-
oping over so many years.
In these days, please send Your holy
spirit to inspire those members of the
conference committee, that a construc-
tive compromise might be reached to
secure the funding of all government
services.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. The Chair will lead
the House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
The Speaker led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the House stands adjourned until 11:30
a.m. Monday, February 4, 2019.
There was no objection.
Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 1
minute p.m.), under its previous order,
the House adjourned until Monday,
February 4, 2019, at 11:30 a.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
78. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-575, ‘‘Health Insurance Marketplace
Improvement Temporary Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
79. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-576, ‘‘Controlled Substance Testing
Temporary Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
80. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-565, ‘‘Voting Rights Notification
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
81. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-564, ‘‘Sexual Blackmail Elimination
and Immigrant Protection Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself
and Ms. WILSON of Florida):
H.R. 934. A bill to amend the Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
include certain retirees in the Multiem-
ployer Health Benefit Plan, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
BOST, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. LAMB, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mrs. MILLER, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 935. A bill to provide for transfers to
the 1974 UMWA pension plan and a reduction
in the minimum age for allowable in-service
distributions; to the Committee on Natural
Resources, and in addition to the Committee
on Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RASKIN (for himself, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SOTO, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
and Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 936. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 and the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit a corpora-
tion from making disbursements for a polit-
ical purpose unless the corporation has as-
sessed the preferences of its shareholders
with respect to such disbursements, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on House Administration, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and
Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 937. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to prevent the
misclassification of drugs for purposes of the
Medicaid drug rebate program; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia):
H.R. 938. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, with respect to eli-
gibility for approval of a subsequent generic
drug, to remove the barrier to that approval
posed by the 180-day exclusivity period af-
forded to a first generic applicant that has
not yet received final approval, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. KELLY of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:57 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA7.000 H31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1342 January 31, 2019
Illinois, Mr. COHEN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr.
LANGEVIN):
H.R. 939. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require federally licensed
firearms importers, manufacturers, and deal-
ers to meet certain requirements with re-
spect to securing their firearms inventory,
business records, and business premises; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
KIND, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
COLE, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. BACON, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. BARR, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 940. A bill to amend the Trade Expan-
sion Act of 1962 to impose limitations on the
authority of the President to adjust imports
that are determined to threaten to impair
national security, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Rules, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BERGMAN:
H.R. 941. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to adopt certain strategies
for preventive colorectal screenings for vet-
erans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Ms. HILL
of California, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Mr. SOTO, and Mrs. MURPHY):
H.R. 942. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an enhanced re-
search credit for the development of smart
gun technologies; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
VELA, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. COHEN, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. KIND, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. MCCAUL, and Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana):
H.R. 943. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to award grants to eligible enti-
ties to carry out educational programs about
the Holocaust, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. MURPHY (for herself, Ms.
SHALALA, and Ms. CASTOR of Florida):
H.R. 944. A bill to require the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission to
publish an annual report on the estimated
impact in each State of the Medicaid expan-
sion added by the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act, including the estimated
impact that adopting such expansion would
have in States that have not expanded their
Medicaid coverage; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 945. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the cov-
erage of marriage and family therapist serv-
ices and mental health counselor services
under part B of the Medicare program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and
Mrs. MURPHY):
H. Res. 94. A resolution raising awareness
and encouraging the prevention of stalking
by expressing support for the designation of
January 2019 as ‘‘National Stalking Aware-
ness Month’’; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 934.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 935.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. RASKIN:
H.R. 936.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 937.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 938.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 939.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 940.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 clearly grants Congress
the authority ‘‘To regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations’’—not the President. This
bill reclaims delegated Congressional au-
thority over Section 232 tariffs.
By Mr. BERGMAN:
H.R. 941.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of.’’
By Mr. HIMES:
H.R. 942.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, as this legislation pro-
vides for the general welfare of the United
States.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 943.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mrs. MURPHY:
H.R. 944.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to Article I, Section 8, which
authorizes Congress to regulate commerce
among the states, and to make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out that power.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 945.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 51: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 117: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 119: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 141: Mr. FOSTER and Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana.
H.R. 205: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 273: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. RUSH, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. SUOZZI,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 336: Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. ZELDIN, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, and Mr.
CURTIS.
H.R. 339: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 394: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 479: Mr. CLOUD, Mr. YOHO, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana,
and Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 531: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 535: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 549: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 553: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. SPANO, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, and
Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 557: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 596: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 615: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 653: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 678: Ms. HAALAND, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs.
HAYES, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. BASS, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CLYBURN, Ms.
FUDGE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:57 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L31JA7.100 H31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1343
January 31, 2019
H.R. 708: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 736: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 739: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. GUEST,
Mr. WATKINS, and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 748: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. COLLINS of Geor-
gia, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. MAST, Mr. MOON-
EY of West Virginia, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. TURNER,
and Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 757: Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 761: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 781: Mr. HIGGINS of New York and Mr.
MAST.
H.R. 791: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 809: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 860: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 874: Ms. MENG and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 878: Mr. LAMB, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 885: Mrs. HAYES.
H.J. Res. 18: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.J. Res. 37: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. DOGGETT,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
HOULAHAN, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H. Res. 54: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. FOSTER,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 58: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H. Res. 84: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:57 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA7.001 H31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S775
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2019 No. 20
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Lord of the harvest, we continue to
seek You, for we desire to do Your will.
You are the strength of our lives.
As our lawmakers strive to walk
uprightly, provide them with the har-
vest of truth, justice, and righteous-
ness. May they cultivate such ethical
congruence that their rhetoric will be
undergirded by right actions.
Lord, keep them aware of Your con-
tinuous presence as they find in You
fullness of joy. Show them the path to
life as Your truth brings them to a safe
harbor.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
S. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
earlier this week, Senate Democrats
stopped filibustering the important
legislation before us. They finally
joined Republicans and voted to ad-
vance these measures to renew our
commitment to Israel, deepen our co-
operation with Jordan, and deliver jus-
tice for the victims of Assad’s brutality
in Syria.
But it appears some of my Demo-
cratic colleagues are not finished with
their obstruction just yet.
On Tuesday, I offered a straight-
forward amendment to allow for a
straightforward debate about the Sen-
ate’s continued commitment to ongo-
ing missions in Syria and Afghanistan.
It is not a partisan amendment. It is
not complicated. There is no poison
pill—just an opportunity for Senators
to go on the record about what our
country should be doing in Syria and
Afghanistan.
I have been clear about my own views
on these subjects. I believe the threats
remain. ISIS and al-Qaida have yet to
be defeated, and American national se-
curity interests require continued com-
mitment to our missions there.
But I guess some Senate Democrats
don’t want to vote on these important
subjects. Perhaps it could have put
some of my colleagues with aims be-
yond the Senate at odds with parts of
the far left. Whatever the reason, our
colleagues tried to avoid taking a posi-
tion and tried to block my amendment
from getting a vote.
Make no mistake. Today, the Senate
will vote on this amendment. Members
will go on the record for our allies and
our partners in the Middle East.
When Senator RUBIO introduced S. 1,
which is just a collection of bipartisan
bills, I hoped for an open amendment
process so that the Senate could debate
important matters of national secu-
rity. I am disappointed that our friends
on the other side of the aisle have cho-
sen to make that impossible.
Another issue I had hoped we could
address is America’s ironclad commit-
ment to the transatlantic alliance.
NATO has a proud history of delivering
greater security to America and our al-
lies and greater peace to the world. We
stood shoulder to shoulder with our
NATO allies throughout the Cold War;
they stood with us following 9/11.
NATO’s mission in Afghanistan today
is an essential element of bringing
peace and stability to that troubled
country.
NATO will continue to be critical to
transatlantic security, but it must
adapt to new challenges. The United
States has made significant new in-
vestments in our security posture in
Europe, most notably through troop
deployments all along the eastern
flank and through the European Deter-
rence Initiative, which has bipartisan
support here in Congress.
Former Secretary Mattis was also in-
strumental in pushing NATO to re-
form, especially in the areas of capa-
bilities modernization, readiness, and
military mobility. These reforms are
essential to ensuring NATO readiness.
President Trump has also reaffirmed
our Nation’s commitment to NATO. As
recently as just a few days ago, he said
the United States will ‘‘be with NATO
100 percent.’’
The President is right to call upon
our allies to contribute their fair share
toward our collective defense. As
NATO’s Secretary General recently ex-
plained, President Trump has ‘‘clearly
stated that NATO allies need to invest
more. . . . we agreed to do more . . .
and now we see the results. . . . by the
end of next year, NATO allies will add
. . . 100 billion extra U.S. dollars [for]
defense.’’
Here is how the Secretary General
summed it up: ‘‘So we see some real
money, and some real results, and we
see that the clear message from Presi-
dent Trump is having an impact.’’
We need to build on this momentum
and continue strengthening NATO, dis-
pelling all doubt—all doubt—about
America’s commitment to this alli-
ance, which has reshaped history for
the better.
NATO deserves the Senate’s support.
I believe it has the Senate’s support,
and at some point I hope this institu-
tion is able to debate that matter.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.000 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S776 January 31, 2019
H.R. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on a totally different matter, earlier
this week I began discussing H.R. 1.
This is the House Democrats’ marquee
bill for the new Congress.
I have stated this week that it really
adds up to one big expensive partisan
power grab, an effort to centralize
more control over America’s speech
and America’s voting here in Wash-
ington—the ‘‘Democratic Politician
Protection Act.’’ I am pleased that peo-
ple are beginning to pay attention to
this monstrosity—a monstrosity.
Today I want to focus on how the
power grab would affect our elections
because when Washington politicians
suddenly decide their top priority is
grabbing unprecedented control over
how they get elected and sent to Wash-
ington in the first place, alarm bells
should start ringing all over this place.
After all, article I, section IV of the
Constitution clearly gives—clearly
gives—State legislatures primary re-
sponsibility for ‘‘the Times, Places,
and Manner of holding Elections for
Senators and Representatives.’’
There are times in American history
when it has come to that. There have
been times when our Nation has needed
the Federal Government to get in-
volved to expand and protect the fran-
chise or to respond to a national emer-
gency, for examples, bills like the Vot-
ing Rights Act, which secured the fran-
chise for African Americans, or the
Help America Vote Act, which provided
guideposts—guideposts—to prevent a
crisis like the Bush v. Gore recount
from occurring a second time.
So what is the alleged crisis now?
What is the alleged crisis now, in 2019,
that has House Democrats calling for
an unprecedented Federal takeover of
elections across our country? Why is
this Democratic bill—which would cre-
ate more Federal Government man-
dates over the minutia of the election
process than has ever been done in the
past—necessary now?
The year 2016 saw the most ballots
ever cast in a Presidential election in
American history. Now, with popu-
lation growth, that isn’t entirely sur-
prising, but the turnout rate was the
third highest since 1968. So people are
voting in great numbers.
Let’s look at the 2018 midterms—the
highest midterm turnout in 50 years.
People voted in the midterms.
Listen to what Americans themselves
had to say about their experience.
After the election, 92 percent—92 per-
cent—of surveyed voters told the Pew
Research Center their voting experi-
ence was ‘‘very easy’’ or ‘‘somewhat
easy’’—92 percent—very easy or some-
what easy to vote. Regardless of when
they voted and how they voted, huge
majorities communicated that they
had no real trouble—no real trouble—
casting their ballots. No trouble.
My Democratic friends seem to be
implying there is a supposed crisis here
that conveniently is not rooted in the
facts or in the opinions of American
voters.
There is no objective basis for the
sweeping Federal takeover of elections
that House Democrats have dreamed
up. There is no emergency. It is just a
Washington power grab for its very
own sake.
Decision after decision that our Con-
stitution properly leaves to the States
just melts away in this proposal. Prac-
tically every variable of any con-
sequence to American elections gets a
top-down mandate written by whom?
Why, the Democrats, of course.
Could States require a signature to
vote under the Democrats’ bill? Only if
they accept a computerized mark,
making that signature requirement
about as serious as clicking one
checkbox on a website.
What if States and localities want to
make sure that ineligible voters under
the age of 18 don’t end up on the voter
rolls or decide whether or how con-
victed felons have their voting rights
restored? Well, under the ‘‘Democratic
Politician Protection Act,’’ States
have no choice in the matter.
How many early days of voting
should there be? Do polls need to be
open on Sundays? What is the best way
to make absentee ballots available?
When can early voting take place, and
how long and where should the polling
places be located?
Different States and communities
have come to different legitimate judg-
ments on all of these questions. It is a
core part of our constitutional system,
and the decentralization of our election
process leads to a more democratic sys-
tem with more direct impact on the
elections of those decision makers.
The United States of America has
never been about centralizing all power
in Washington, and Washington should
not get to micromanage the processes
that determine who comes to Wash-
ington.
But, alas, House Democrats don’t
seem to care if their partisan power
grab upsets this constitutional bal-
ance. These Representatives even—get
this—want the Federal Government to
dictate to States how their very own
congressional districts will be drawn.
They want the Federal Government to
tell the States how to draw their con-
gressional districts.
Right now, there is a competition of
ideas among the States about the best
way to handle this. Different places ar-
rive at different answers.
Naturally, House Democrats have a
different idea. They want to force
every State to use a commission that
is designed by them—by Washington
Democrats. Every State will have to
use a commission designed by Wash-
ington Democrats whose structure and
procedures are prescribed, of course, by
Washington Democrats. If a State
doesn’t know how to bow to their will,
then the DC Federal court will make
the decisions that have been reserved
for the State legislatures going back to
our Nation’s founding.
I know it is not fashionable on the
far left to praise the wisdom of our
constitutional structure. It seems to be
out of fashion. I am sure that in some
corners I will be derided for referencing
the Constitution at all. They will say:
How could it still be relevant after all
these years?
Of course, this thinking shows ex-
actly why our founding principles are
so important.
Our Constitution is there to protect
our liberties and protect our form of
government from the whim of whoever
happens to be currently in power.
These guardrails exist to stop things
like a narrow partisan majority in the
House of Representatives grabbing con-
trol of election laws just to benefit
themselves politically. We need to
stand with Alexander Hamilton and
our Constitution, not with the House
Democrats’ partisan power grab.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S. 1, which the
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 65, to express
the sense of the Senate that the United
States faces continuing threats from ter-
rorist groups operating in Syria and Afghan-
istan and that the precipitous withdrawal of
United States forces from either country
could put at risk hard-won gains and United
States national security.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk for
S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 1, S. 1, a bill to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance pro-
visions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.002 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S777
January 31, 2019
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mitt Romney, Richard
Burr, John Cornyn, Rick Scott, Mike
Crapo, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Michael B.
Enzi, Kevin Cramer, Mike Braun, John
Boozman, Steve Daines, James M.
Inhofe, Thom Tillis, Joni Ernst.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT ACT—MOTION TO PROCEED
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to Calendar No. 7, S. 47.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion to pro-
ceed.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 7, S. 47,
a bill to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States, and
for other purposes.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk on
the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 7, S. 47, a bill
to provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States, and for
other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mitt Romney, Richard
Burr, John Cornyn, Rick Scott, Mike
Crapo, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Michael B.
Enzi, Kevin Cramer, Mike Braun, John
Boozman, Steve Daines, James M.
Inhofe, Thom Tillis, Joni Ernst.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 1
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I am
pleased the Senate is finally debating
S. 1 after three inexplicable Demo-
cratic attempts to filibuster the bill.
This package of Middle East policy
bills, all of which have bipartisan sup-
port, addresses a number of key issues.
For starters, this legislation will fur-
ther strengthen our relationship with
our closest ally in the Middle East,
Israel. It authorizes 10 years of mili-
tary support funding to Israel. It reaf-
firms the U.S. commitment to ensuring
that Israel has better weapons and
equipment than its enemies. It will
also foster increased technical coopera-
tion between Israel and the United
States to support the security of both
of our countries.
The legislation also strengthens our
relationship with another close ally of
ours in the Middle East, the Kingdom
of Jordan. The Senate Intelligence
Committee hearing on Tuesday was a
timely reminder of the importance of
investing in our alliances. Senior intel-
ligence officials testified that China
and Russia are becoming increasingly
aggressive in seeking to increase their
influence, not just in their own regions
but in other parts of the world. Rus-
sia’s support in the Syrian regime is a
prime example.
Now, more than ever, it is vital that
we maintain close relationships with
our allies. The legislation before us
also contains the Caesar Syria Civilian
Protection Act. This legislation will
help hold accountable individuals who
have supported the atrocities of the
Assad regime. It directs the Treasury
Department to investigate whether the
Central Bank of Syria launders money
for the Syrian Government.
The conflict in Syria has claimed
hundreds of thousands of lives and
driven literally millions of Syrians
from their country. While the United
States cannot solve every conflict
around the world, it is vital that we
make it very clear the United States
will not tolerate those who have con-
tributed to the brutality of Bashar al-
Assad’s government.
Finally, the legislation we are con-
sidering today will protect the right of
State and local governments to decline
to do business with entities that have
chosen to boycott Israel. As I said, all
of the bills in the legislation before us
today have bipartisan support, and I
hope the Senate will pass this legisla-
tion with a strong bipartisan majority.
AMENDMENT NO. 65
Madam President, I also would like
to take a few moments to talk about
an amendment the leader has proposed.
As I noted, this week, our intelligence
community leaders gave a frank assess-
ment of the threats we face to our na-
tional security and to our interests,
from ISIS and al-Qaida to the danger
posed by a growing alignment between
Russia and China, to Iran’s desta-
bilizing activities in the Middle East.
As intelligence officials made clear,
the U.S. faces numerous persistent
threats, and we should be wary of let-
ting our guard down or becoming com-
placent about our strength. For that
reason, I would like to state my sup-
port for Leader MCCONNELL’s amend-
ment to express the sense of the Senate
that we should be cautious about any
premature withdrawal of our troops
from Syria and Afghanistan.
We don’t have to look back very far
for a reminder that prematurely with-
drawing our troops can create a power
vacuum that terrorists and others will
step in to fill. Our too-hasty with-
drawal from Iraq, on a timeline we an-
nounced to our enemies, created the
circumstances that allowed for the rise
of ISIS. We need to be wary about al-
lowing something like that to happen
again.
Terrorist groups are not the only en-
tities we have to worry about. Adver-
saries like Russia and Iran are already
trying to flex their power in the Middle
East and would be more than happy to
take advantage of an early U.S. with-
drawal to strengthen their foothold in
the region.
While I understand and respect Presi-
dent Trump’s desire to bring our troops
home and to end these protracted wars,
we must do so in a way that ensures
enduring stability and protects our in-
terests and those of our allies. The
leader’s amendment is an important re-
minder of the need for caution and re-
flection as we consider troop with-
drawals and would reassure our allies
that the United States does not intend
to abruptly leave them in the midst of
the battle.
I hope all my colleagues will support
the leader’s amendment when we vote
on it later this afternoon.
USS ‘‘SOUTH DAKOTA’’
Madam President, before I close, I
would like to mention the commission
of the Navy’s newest Virginia-class at-
tack submarine, the USS South Dakota,
which will occur this Saturday, Feb-
ruary 2, 2019, in Groton, CT. Designated
SSN 790, the USS South Dakota will be
the 17th submarine of her class, push-
ing the envelope of U.S. maritime tech-
nology and undersea dominance.
We are proud the State of South Da-
kota will once again be represented in
the fleet by this engineering marvel,
which will project America’s strength
and protect our national interests
throughout the maritime domain and
beyond.
In March 2012, I led the South Dakota
delegation, which then included Sen-
ator Tim Johnson and Congresswoman
Kristi Noem, in writing Secretary of
the Navy Mabus to request that the
Navy name its next attack submarine
the USS South Dakota. I join them and
all South Dakotans in saying we are
excited to see this honor come to fru-
ition.
The South Dakota will build off the
legacy of her forebears, a Pennsyl-
vania-class armored cruiser that served
as a troop escort in World War I and a
battleship that was one of the most
decorated battleships in World War II.
The battleship South Dakota was a
proud representative of the 68,000
South Dakotans who answered their
country’s call to serving the war, earn-
ing 13 battle stars in the Pacific the-
ater.
The South Dakota led with her nine
16-inch guns in the battles of the Santa
Cruz Islands and Guadalcanal, which
earned her a reputation as a fighting
machine by defending U.S. aircraft car-
riers and disabling the enemy’s.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.004 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S778 January 31, 2019
In her second Pacific tour, the South
Dakota supported marine landings on
the Marshall Islands with shore bom-
bardments before joining the Battle of
the Philippine Sea and fighting
through a bomb hit in order to defend
our fast carriers. As information on
U.S. military action was limited at the
time, she was often referred to as ‘‘Bat-
tleship X’’ and ‘‘Old Nameless.’’
The submarine South Dakota will con-
tinue this distinguished tradition of
service, and as is the nature of the sub-
marine force, the accomplishments of
this new boat and her crew may be
even more secretive than those of her
battleship predecessor’s. In fact, it
could be decades until we fully appre-
ciate all the South Dakota might do in
her 30-plus-year service life. We may
very well read about her exploits in a
sequel to ‘‘Blind Man’s Bluff’’—the dar-
ing account of early U.S. submarine es-
pionage and power projection.
Because of the nature of their work,
the so-called Silent Service is often an
undersung hero of the U.S. military’s. I
have certainly never seen a submarine
at an airshow or coming down Main
Street in a parade. The nature of the
sub force’s mission is as secretive as it
is high stakes, but at any given mo-
ment, the U.S. submarine force is pa-
trolling the depths of the ocean and is
monitoring littoral waters for threats
against our Nation and our allies.
The South Dakota will project power
at sea and ashore with her payload of
torpedoes and Tomahawk cruise mis-
siles, which can be delivered without
warning. Undetected, she will carry out
the seven core competencies of the sub-
marine force—anti-submarine warfare,
anti-surface warfare, the delivery of
special operations forces, strike war-
fare, irregular warfare, intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance, and
mine warfare—all while keeping adver-
saries on their toes.
While Saturday will be a time for our
Navy and the country to celebrate this
milestone, the South Dakota won’t just
be talked about here at home; around
the world, our adversaries are taking
note as this submarine will further
strengthen our global presence and
ability to protect the interests of the
U.S. and our allies. Our adversaries are
already undertaking significant efforts
to challenge U.S. military capabilities
and international order.
While they can try to copy our de-
signs, mimic our operational concepts,
or even try to replicate the way we
train, one thing they will never be able
to do is to imitate our people. The
commissioning crew has proven its ap-
titude and professionalism in the
months leading up to this point. The
men and women of our submarine
force, like those who serve in the ranks
across the Department of Defense, are
the root of America’s military
strength.
As Americans, we are grateful for all
who have answered the call to serve
and the families who support them, es-
pecially those who endure spending
months apart during long deployments.
The lives of submariners are not easy,
and they are not easy for their loved
ones. We thank them for their sac-
rifice.
The South Dakota’s complement of 135
talented officers and sailors will put its
population in line with those of South
Dakota towns like Isabel, Pierpont,
and Java. Like South Dakota’s rural
towns, the USS South Dakota will be a
tight-knit community of its own, al-
beit one that is uniquely confined to a
submersed vessel just over a football
field long and with a nuclear reactor.
The indigenous inhabitants and early
pioneer settlers of the State of South
Dakota instilled a resourceful and re-
silient ethic in the culture of our State
that continues to this day. This was
driven by the remote, austere, and
often unforgiving conditions on the
Great Plains. I am confident that such
hardiness will be replicated in all offi-
cers and crew members of the South
Dakota as they live up to the boat’s
motto, which means ‘‘Under the sea,
we rule.’’
As boat sponsor Deanie Dempsey
brings the boat to life on Saturday, we
thank the officers and crew of the
South Dakota for their dedicated serv-
ice to our country.
May God bless the USS South Dakota
and keep watch over her as she patrols
the seas.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
S. 1
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want
to continue talking about a subject
that I talked about yesterday, and that
is our situation in the Middle East—
specifically, but not exclusively, with
respect to Syria.
To focus my thoughts, I want to
begin talking about S. 1, which we are
considering and will be considering
shortly. We have been considering the
procedural matters.
S. 1 is the Strengthening America’s
Security in the Middle East Act. Its
sponsor is the senior Senator from the
Presiding Officer’s State, Senator
RUBIO. He has done an extraordinary
job with this bill. We both know Sen-
ator RUBIO. He is whip-smart, as I said
yesterday. Speaking for me, he has for-
gotten more foreign policy than I will
ever know.
This is a good bill. I will just men-
tion a couple of things. Senator RISCH
has worked very hard on it as well. He
is, of course, the chairman of our For-
eign Relations Committee.
There is a lot to like in S. 1. I just
made a list walking over here. No. 1, S.
1 is going to reaffirm our commitment
to protecting Israel. Israel is easily our
most important ally in the Middle East
and is easily our most important friend
in the Middle East. On some days, I
think they are easily our only friend in
the world, and we should support our
friends. Let me say that again. We
have to support our friends, and Israel
is a friend. This bill will support Israel,
and I like that. So I am going to vote
for the bill.
No. 2, Senator RUBIO’s bill strength-
ens our bond with Jordan, another key
ally. Jordan is a key ally in fighting
terrorism and the humanitarian catas-
trophe caused by Assad’s butchering of
his own people in Syria, along with the
help of Vladimir Putin in Russia.
No. 3, Senator RUBIO’s bill will com-
bat a radical economic welfare cam-
paign against Israel. That is very im-
portant. You either support Israel or
you don’t. It is time for everybody to
stand up and be counted. I do.
Finally, Senator RUBIO’s bill creates
new sanctions on the Government of
Syria. I am not sure they are going to
be enough, but it is a start. It targets
those who have been laundering money
to help the Assad regime.
I support all of these things. I sup-
port S. 1, sponsored by Senator RUBIO.
I thank him, Senator RISCH, and every-
body who has worked so hard on S. 1.
There is a way to make S. 1 better,
and I have an amendment pending that
will do that. I have heard some of my
colleagues correctly say that S. 1 is
about standing with our allies, and
that is important. Certainly, America’s
foreign policy is centered, in part,
around interests but not exclusively
around interests. Values are important
too. If you have a foreign policy just
based on your nation’s interests, all
you do is go from deal to deal to deal,
and everything becomes expendable,
depending on what day it is.
America’s foreign policy has never
been based exclusively on interests. I
am not saying interests aren’t in-
volved, but it has been based on values.
One of our values in America is that we
stand with our allies. That is what S. 1
does. It stands with our friend Israel. It
stands against our enemy Assad. It
stands with Jordan.
I will tell you who it doesn’t stand
with—the Syrian Kurds. The Kurdish
people are one of the largest—if not the
largest—minorities in the world that is
stateless. There are Kurds in Iraq, Iran,
Turkey, and Syria. They don’t have a
caliphate. They don’t have a country.
They are occupying northeast Syria
right now, and I believe they want
peace. I believe—some of my colleagues
disagree with me—that they believe in
democracy, and that they, in large
part, embrace Western values.
I understand that is debatable, but I
will tell you one thing that is not de-
batable. We would not have defeated
ISIS without the help of the Syrian
Kurds. That is just an actual fact. You
can write that one down and take it
home to Mama.
Before somebody starts saying, well,
we haven’t defeated ISIS, I say: You
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.009 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S779
January 31, 2019
never defeat the terrorist group. They
will just change their names. Has every
jihadist in the world been eliminated
in the Middle East? No. Duh. We will
never eliminate all of them, but that
doesn’t mean the President was wrong
to say a couple of years ago, when he
became President: I don’t know how
many jihadists are calling themselves
members of ISIS.
There were 100,000. There sure aren’t
100,000 today. I know they had a capital
in Raqqa. I know they had a caliphate
in the Middle East. I know there were
at least 100,000 of them, but there
aren’t 100,000 of them now.
We wouldn’t have beaten back ISIS
without the help of the Syrian Kurds.
The President has announced that he
is going to pull American troops out of
Syria, and he is talking about pulling
American troops out of Afghanistan. I
know there is a lot of debate about
that. To be truthful, I don’t know who
is right and who is wrong.
Senator MCCONNELL has a vote on his
amendment to S. 1 today. I am not sure
I am going to vote for it. It is not be-
cause I think he is wrong, but it is be-
cause I am not sure he is right. I am
not sure who is right. The President
says one thing, his intelligence com-
munity says another, and Members of
the Senate say a multitude of things,
as we always do.
We have to get this one right. There
is a lot of talk, not by Senators, but I
have seen the opinions in the press.
They say that this is all just a bunch of
cynical politics, that the whole purpose
of S. 1—and I don’t believe it, but I
have heard people say it, and I guess I
can see their point—is about making
somebody take a tough vote; that is all
it is about.
Well, I don’t care about tough votes
or easy votes or the politics of this. I
think what the American people are
looking at is that we have been in
Syria, and we have been in Afghanistan
and Iraq, and we have spent trillions of
dollars. Why are we there? Have we ac-
complished why we are there? And if
not, when are we going to accomplish
it? And, by the way, how much more
will it cost?
I think the President makes a very
valid point about nation-building and
about mission creep. I have listened to
this debate, and I honestly don’t know,
and I don’t think the American people
know. I know the intelligence commu-
nity may be split, but we in the Sen-
ate, all of us—I have met every Mem-
ber of the Senate—all have brains
above a single cell organism. We can
have experts come over here and brief
us and tell us the pros and the cons. We
haven’t done that, and that really
bothers me.
I am not here to criticize Turkey or
President Erdogan. I am not saying I
agree with everything President
Erdogan does or everything Turkey
does, but Turkey is a NATO ally, and
that means a lot to us. Turkey is sup-
posed to be a friend. I wish we could
have better relationships with Turkey.
I would like to have a trade deal with
Turkey, but I also want to protect our
friends the Syrian Kurds.
It is no secret and it is no understate-
ment to say that President Erdogan,
his administration, and Turkey have
had some pretty harsh things to say
about the Syrian Kurds and about some
of the things that Turkey might do if
we pull out and the Syrian Kurds are
left exposed. I know that puts us in a
very difficult situation. It puts the
Senate in a very difficult situation. It
puts the President in a very difficult
situation. Well, that is why we are
here.
The purpose of this amendment,
which I hope the Senate will support—
I hope I will be allowed to bring it up—
is not to make anybody take a tough
vote or an easy vote. It is not about the
2020 elections. It is not about trying to
get back at the House. It is about try-
ing to allow us to focus and, hopefully,
resolve a problem coming down the
pike, like thunder on a summer night,
that we are going to have to face: What
are we going to do if we pull out or
minimize our presence in Syria, and
our friends the Turks attack our
friends the Syrian Kurds? What are we
going to do?
I don’t want to see us wait until that
happens and have us all running around
like a bunch of sprayed roaches trying
to figure it out. We need to deal with it
now. We don’t need to deal with it on
the politics, and we don’t need to deal
with it in terms of who we are trying
to make take a tough vote.
I would like to see the Senate have a
briefing. I would like to bring experts
over to talk to us—those who believe
we ought to remain in Syria, those who
believe we ought to leave. While we are
at it, let’s do the same thing about Af-
ghanistan.
Then let’s talk to the American peo-
ple straight up: Here is what we have
decided, and here is why. Here is the
game plan. Here is when it is going to
be completed, and here is what it is
going to cost.
I am going to go back to where I
started. I am not naive, nor is the Pre-
siding Officer. A country’s foreign pol-
icy always has involved with it inter-
ests—your own interests—but it is not
interests alone. There has to be a
moral component to a nation’s foreign
policy, and our moral principle is that
we stand by our friends.
I am glad we are standing by Israel.
I am going to vote for the bill. I am not
sure I am going to vote for the amend-
ment this afternoon, but I am going to
vote for the bill. I just wish we would
stand by our friends the Syrian Kurds.
Thank you.
I yield to the chairman of the For-
eign Relations Committee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I recog-
nize the Senator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
First, let me thank Senator KEN-
NEDY. I think he has articulated a num-
ber of things that are important to us,
and it is important that we do debate
these things. When the Founding Fa-
thers put the Constitution together,
they were very clear on article I rights,
legislative rights, and some on the ex-
ecutive branch rights. On foreign pol-
icy, I think that was a work still in
progress with them, and they left it
with both branches to have a role in
both crafting the foreign policy of this
country and also in execution of the
foreign policy of this country. In es-
sence, that is what we are doing with
S. 1.
S. 1 is a work that has been going on
for a considerable period of time, and it
addresses the relationships we have
with a number of our friends in the
Middle East. I think I heard the Sen-
ator say he did agree with S. 1 and the
things that are in there, trying to help
our friends the Israelis, trying to help
our friends the Jordanians, and also
trying to help what friends we have in
Syria to help them shed the yoke of
Bashar al-Assad, which is the Caeser
bill, which is included in this. This is a
conglomeration of about four different
bills. It is bipartisan, not something
that is common around here these
days, but it is bipartisan in almost all
respects, and it does do a lot of the
things we want it to do. So I appreciate
hearing his support for S. 1. I want to
talk for just a minute about a couple of
issues he raised.
No. 1, talking about the debate that
has been going on within the executive
branch on certain issues. This is the
way it is supposed to work. Most of the
time, this is done in the Intelligence
Committee and in the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee in closed hearings.
Occasionally, it bubbles over, as it has
recently, where there were some state-
ments made by the intelligence com-
munity that the President didn’t nec-
essarily subscribe to, but the intel-
ligence community was doing its job.
There are 17 committed intelligence
Agencies of the United States. Every
day, they gather a massive amount of
information which they try to boil
down and understand where we are
headed. Their job is to gather that and
to submit it to policymakers—this
body, to the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, to the Intelligence Committee,
this entire body, and, most impor-
tantly, to the President of the United
States and all policymakers through-
out government. They do that, and
they do a good job doing it. Not every-
one agrees.
The intelligence communities—I
think I can say without breaching con-
fidences—from time to time have a dif-
ferent level of confidence as to a con-
clusion they reach regarding a certain
situation. Sometimes we debate these
things publicly. The vast majority of
times, we don’t. As policymakers, we
do have to make decisions.
The President of the United States
has recently talked about the military
activities we are doing both in Syria
and in Afghanistan, and it has properly
spawned a debate as to what we are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.011 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S780 January 31, 2019
doing there, as the Senator suggested,
what we have accomplished there, and
what our continuing work there should
be. I think that is a work in progress
today.
I think everyone agrees that no mat-
ter what, the nation-building we did
after World War II in Germany and
Japan and after the Korean war in
South Korea was incredibly successful.
We spent a lot of money there, we im-
ported American values there, and we
did a great job. Over the last few dec-
ades, we have tried to use the same
model in the Middle East, and it has
been very unsuccessful. Before you can
be successful, people have to want what
you are giving them. That has not been
unanimously accepted in the Middle
East, and I think the President is right
that we need to examine the nation-
building and, for that matter, standing
up our fighting forces that again have
not been particularly competent in the
Middle East.
In any event, it is a good debate to
have. We are in the middle of that de-
bate right now. I think everyone agrees
that, no matter what, we have to main-
tain a sufficient military presence in
the Middle East in various places. I
think the military people are better
making that decision than we are, but
we have to have a military presence in
certain places so that when we get a
threat to America, we can respond, and
we will respond. I don’t think there is
anything the President has said that
backs us away from our commitment
to respond, when necessary, to threats
to the United States by terrorists. We
are going to continue to respond. I
think he has rightly identified that we
should reexamine our nation-building
efforts and expenditures in some areas,
and I think he is right there.
I want to touch on, for just a minute,
what the Senator said about the situa-
tion between the Turks and the Kurds,
and then yield to my friend from
Texas. You are absolutely right. The
Kurds have been a great friend of ours
for a long time. They have stood by our
side. They have helped us in Syria and
in other places when we have been
fighting over the recent decades in the
Middle East. They are good people. I
met with them yesterday, and as I al-
ways do, I thanked them for their com-
mitment to us and the sacrifices they
have made. I realize they are there in
their homeland and protecting their
homeland. They have been magnificent
fighters, and they are great people to
have alongside us.
Some elements of the Kurdish people
have had issues with Turkey. Turkey
has been a long ally of the United
States. We have a significant military
presence there and a significant base
there. This has been going on for a long
time. They are a member of NATO.
They are an official NATO ally of ours,
which gives us certain responsibilities
and gives them certain responsibilities.
The fact that the Kurds and the
Turks are having issues with each
other should very much concern us. No
matter what happens, as the Senator
mentioned, we have American values,
and both the Turks and the Kurds have
to understand that they need to re-
spect human rights, they need to re-
spect the rule of law, and we have to
stand by and watch that this occurs.
There have been conversations going
on—I don’t think it is a secret to any-
one—about how this is going to play
out and what role the United States
plays in this regard, but it is a difficult
situation, as the Senator referred to.
At this time, I am going to oppose
the amendment the Senator has pro-
posed. I do so reluctantly because I
think he is trying to speak to the fact
that we need to stand by our friends,
and we do need to stand by our friends.
Our relationship with the Turks, I
don’t think it is a secret to anyone
that it has hit a rough patch, but sim-
ply because we are in a rough patch
doesn’t mean we throw the baby out
with the bathwater.
We are going to have to continue to
keep our commitments. We are going
to have to, as the Senator suggested,
see that we stand by our friends. It is
going to be difficult. It is difficult in
the situation we are in, but we can do
this, we are committed to do this, and
we are going to continue to work at it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICING
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, on
Tuesday of this week, the Senate Fi-
nance Committee had a very important
hearing on the skyrocketing costs of
prescription drugs, something the Pre-
siding Officer knows a lot about.
In 2017, a study found that more than
half of Americans regularly take some
form of prescription medication. Mod-
ern medicine has made living with
chronic health conditions that would
have once been debilitating or fatal—
like diabetes, high blood pressure, or
asthma—modern medicine has made
living with those conditions manage-
able. That is a blessing for which we
are all grateful.
I know, at the same time, many of
my constituents and many Americans
struggle to buy prescription drugs to
treat common health problems, not be-
cause they aren’t widely available but
because they simply are unaffordable.
For many higher cost, brand-named
drugs, generic alternatives are avail-
able at a lower price. For example, I
happened to take a drug called Lipitor,
which previously was covered by a pat-
ent. As a result of that patent, the cost
of the drug was higher because the pro-
ducer of the drug had a monopoly. We
grant that monopoly for a period of
time—I believe it is 12 years—in order
for them to recoup their research and
investment dollars. Unfortunately,
many of these efforts to come up with
lifesaving drugs are unsuccessful. So in
order to encourage innovation and life-
saving discoveries, we have to find a
way to allow drug companies to re-
cover their sunk costs and make a prof-
it.
Generic drugs have really been a life-
saver for many people. That same
Lipitor that I take now is off of patent
and is available for a few dollars for a
30-day supply. That is just one exam-
ple. One study found that 93 percent of
generic prescriptions are filled at $20 or
less, with the average cost being just
more than a little over $6, but for
many drugs, there are no low-cost al-
ternatives, and people are increasingly
struggling to cover the rising costs of
their medication.
One witness from Indiana, Kathy
Sego, I think, speaks for a lot of par-
ents who have children suffering from
diabetes needing insulin, and I think
her story was emblematic of that prob-
lem across the country.
In her case, she is a wife, a mother of
two, and a choir teacher. Her son Hun-
ter is one of the more than 30 million
Americans who suffer from diabetes,
and he relies on insulin to manage his
blood sugar.
Kathy told us that when her son Hun-
ter started college, he started to go to
the pharmacy to pick up his insulin
prescription himself. That is when he
discovered that it cost $1,700 a month,
even with health insurance. The
copay—the part they were responsible
for and had been paying for Hunter, un-
beknownst to him—is $1,700 a month.
Kathy assured him that, unfortunately,
that cost was correct; $1,700 only cov-
ers a 1-month supply.
Over the next few weeks, their family
began to notice a change in their son
Hunter. He was losing weight, falling
behind in school, and was depressed—a
far cry from what she said was his nor-
mally positive and energetic self. Un-
beknownst to his parents, Hunter had
only purchased one vial of insulin when
he needed four, and he began rationing
his supply of the drug. To try to coun-
terbalance that, he began skipping
meals—which is dangerous for a dia-
betic to do, let alone an incredibly ac-
tive college football player like him.
Fortunately, in time, his family real-
ized what had happened, and they in-
tervened, avoiding what could have
been fatal consequences, but her family
still battles with the expense of this in-
sulin.
Kathy says she worries about what
happens when Hunter graduates from
college, noting that his life choices are
contingent upon his ability to pay for
the medicine he needs to keep him
alive. She wondered at our hearing:
Can he afford an apartment, utility
bills, and repay his student loans? Hun-
ter, she said, needs insulin to live, but
should that need for insulin keep him
from living?
About 1.5 million Americans have
type 1 diabetes like Hunter, where
their body produces no insulin to deal
with the blood sugar, but as I men-
tioned earlier, 30 million Americans,
according to the Centers for Disease
Control, have diabetes, and about 3
million of those 30 million are in my
State of Texas. Three million Texans
have diabetes for which insulin is a re-
quired treatment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.012 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S781
January 31, 2019
While we know it is common to see
higher drug prices for new drugs that
have recently completed the costly re-
search-and-development phase, that is
not the case for insulin, which has been
around for nearly a century and is a
type of biologic drug which is generally
more expensive to produce.
I hope Kathy and Hunter’s story—
which could be told millions of times
by other families across the country—
impels us to investigate the causes for
these unreasonable costs for some of
these prescription drugs. I hope we find
a solution—and I am confident we will
if we try hard enough—that will allow
families like Kathy’s to live without
the burden of wondering how to pay for
their healthcare costs, particularly
when it comes to prescription drugs.
At Tuesday’s hearing, I also ques-
tioned our witnesses about a phe-
nomenon known as rebates and the
way pharmacy benefit managers deal
with pharmaceutical companies.
I noted that, ordinarily, it was a
crime to kick back money to a pro-
vider. For some reason that nobody
could justify, there was an exclusion
for these rebates by pharmacy benefit
managers to pharmaceutical compa-
nies.
In the case of prescription drug pric-
ing, rebates and discounts provided by
manufacturers could mean the dif-
ference between a drug being covered
by your insurance plan or not, and, cer-
tainly, whatever the net price is after
the rebate is not transparent to any-
body, much less to the consumer, or re-
turned directly to the consumer. Not
only does this drive up the list price
and out-of-pocket cost of lifesaving
drugs, but it makes it impossible for
Congress or anybody to determine
where each dollar goes.
I find this lack of transparency
alarming. It shouldn’t take an ad-
vanced degree to figure out where your
money is going when you buy prescrip-
tion drugs or how to shop for the most
effective drug at the right price. When
it comes to prescription drugs, we need
to promote transparency first and fore-
most, and we need to streamline and
eliminate regulations and laws that
allow the middlemen to unnecessarily
drive up prices. We know we have the
opportunity to do that in the coming
months.
We shouldn’t require people suffering
from chronic diseases to subsidize the
healthcare costs of healthy people.
There is something strangely wrong
about this picture. I am glad we had
the opportunity to listen to witnesses
on this topic, and I thank them for
taking the time to share their insights.
I look forward to continuing to work
with all of our colleagues on the Fi-
nance Committee and generally to
identify ways to make prescription
drugs more affordable and accessible to
the American people.
As the Presiding Officer knows, given
his background in healthcare, I am
confident he can be an important part
of that solution, as well.
TRIBUTE TO SUSAN PAMERLEAU
Mr. President, switching gears just a
bit, I want to share a quick good-news
story of two outstanding Texans who
blazed the trail for women in public
service.
While I was in San Antonio, my
hometown, a couple of weeks ago, I had
the chance to congratulate our new
U.S. marshal for the Western District
of Texas, Susan Pamerleau. Over the
years, she has held many impressive ti-
tles—general in the Air Force and sher-
iff—and now she is a U.S. Marshal. In
addition to each of those, I have always
been proud to know her under a dif-
ferent title—as a friend.
At Susan’s ceremonial swearing-in,
Chief Judge Orlando Garcia opened by
noting the historical significance of
her being the first female marshal ever
in the Western District of Texas, which
was established in 1857.
Susan’s long and impressive career
began at Lackland Air Force Base in
Texas, where my dad happened to have
been stationed at one time, where she
received her commission through offi-
cer training school. Over the course of
her 32-year career in the Air Force, she
rose through the ranks and retired, ul-
timately, as an Air Force major gen-
eral in the year 2000.
When she returned to Texas, Susan
joined USAA as a vice president and
later became senior vice president. It
wasn’t until 10 years later that her ca-
reer in law enforcement began when
she was elected sheriff of Bexar Coun-
ty, TX, which is the 11th largest sher-
iff’s office in the Nation.
Susan was the first woman to hold
that role as well, but she said:
It was not about being the first woman. It
was really about redefining the role of what
the Bexar County sheriff does.
Over the years, I have had the oppor-
tunity to work with her on a number of
issues impacting my constituents and
our constituents, including mental
health and law enforcement reforms. I
think she has made an enormous con-
tribution to both of those areas.
Needless to say, I was thrilled when
the President nominated Susan to be
the new U.S. marshal for the Western
District of Texas and when she was
confirmed last fall. Her integrity, lead-
ership, and management skills are crit-
ical to the Western District of Texas,
which comprises 68 counties and more
than 6 million people.
I wish, once again, to congratulate
my dear friend Susan Pamerleau on be-
coming the U.S. marshal, and I look
forward to continuing to work with her
as we serve together the people of
Texas.
REMEMBERING MARY LOU ROBINSON
Mr. President, finally, when you talk
about women opening doors in Texas,
you can’t leave out Mary Lou Robin-
son, who sadly passed away last week-
end at the age of 92.
Her long and distinguished legal ca-
reer began at the University of Texas
School of Law, where she met her hus-
band, A.J. After law school, they re-
turned to Amarillo, TX, where they
opened up the firm appropriately
named Robinson & Robinson.
In 1955, she left the private practice
of law when Potter County commis-
sioners appointed her judge of the Pot-
ter County Court at Law, making her
the first in a series of firsts for this re-
markable woman.
Judge Robinson found her passion,
and she was hooked. In the coming dec-
ades, she became an advocate for wom-
en’s rights, and she helped to promote
the passage of the Texas Equal Rights
Amendment, a constitutional amend-
ment voted on by the people in 1972.
Over the course of her remarkable 63-
year judicial career, Judge Robinson
served as the 108th District Court
judge, followed by associate and then
chief justice of the 7th Court of Ap-
peals, located in Amarillo.
In 1979, she was appointed by Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter to be a judge of the
U.S. District Court for Northern Dis-
trict of Texas, where she served for
nearly 40 years.
Her career is impressive, not only for
its length but for its quality. One at-
torney practicing before Judge Robin-
son noted: ‘‘Lawyers may disagree on a
lot of things, but almost all agree that
she treats everyone equally and fair-
ly.’’ That is high praise for a district
judge.
Judge Robinson will be remembered
as an inspiring and devoted judge, an
early advocate for women’s rights, and
a beloved member of her community.
Last summer, Senator CRUZ and I in-
troduced a bill to rename the Federal
building and courthouse in Amarillo
the J. Marvin Jones Federal Building
and the Mary Lou Robinson United
States Courthouse.
This lasting testament to her judicial
career will live on for generations, and
I am proud that Senator CRUZ and I
were able to cement this legacy for this
legal pioneer.
While our family sends our prayers to
the family of Mary Lou Robinson, we
can all be proud of her distinguished
career of service, not only to her be-
loved community in Amarillo but to
the State of Texas and to the Nation as
a whole.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I recog-
nize the Senator from North Carolina.
COMBUSTIBLE CIGARETTES
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I was not
next in the queue. Senator GARDNER
was, but since I don’t see him, I am
going to jump in, in great Senate fash-
ion.
I rise today to educate my colleagues
and the American people on actions
that are currently being taken by the
Food and Drug Administration. It deals
with one specific thing that is familiar
to all of us: combustible cigarettes. It
revolves around a decision the FDA has
just announced earlier this year: their
plan to ban menthol combustible prod-
ucts. Their rationale for doing this is
that menthol is the doorway for youth
usage of tobacco products.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.013 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S782 January 31, 2019
Let me start and end at the same
point. I am going to start with this
chart. This chart displays, from 2011 to
2017, the CDC’s annual study of youth
usage of tobacco products. Specifically,
this one addresses the use of menthol
cigarettes, where we have seen a reduc-
tion of 5.8 percent to 2.5 percent.
Somehow, as this chart displays, we
have had a significant reduction in the
use of menthol products for youth in
this country. With this trend line, we
are now making the case, as the Fed-
eral Government, that we have to ban
this product because it is what is fuel-
ing an increase in youth usage.
Over the same period, youth usage of
combustible cigarettes has dropped by
12.5 percent. By any standard we would
look at, we would say that we have an
education program in America that is
actually having the right impact here.
Between what we educate, parental
guidance, and school pressures, the
usage of our youth is going down.
This would be something that typi-
cally we would praise, but, no, an ad-
ministration that came in primarily
saying that we are here to reduce the
regulation of the Federal Government,
has picked one area that not only is it
not reducing, but it is disregarding the
trends that we see, and it is coming out
with new regulations that, at the end
of the day, are going to impact adults
for whom we haven’t either provided
the tools to stop using combustible
cigarettes or who have made a con-
scious choice that they want to use a
legal product they know up front is
harmful to their health.
To successfully talk about this, I
have to hit rewind and go back 10
years, because it was 10 years ago, in
2009, that the Congress of the United
States took up the Tobacco Control
Act. I will say that it was a controver-
sial debate. I spent hours on this floor.
Here are some of the points I made in
2009—that H.R. 1256, which was the To-
bacco Control Act, did not provide a
pathway to market for new tobacco
products. New tobacco products were
products that technologically we could
create that provided a level of satisfac-
tion for its users but didn’t have the
harmful effects of the combustion of
tobacco. Innovative products—we see
them in the market place today. They
are there not because of the guidance
of the Food and Drug Administration,
with over 10 years of total control over
the tobacco industry. They are there
because the marketplace demanded it.
Consumers said: Give me a tool to
switch. We have gone from gum to
patches, to now electronic cigarettes.
It was believed, at the time, that be-
cause we centralized tobacco regula-
tion within an Agency that under-
stands how to use scientific informa-
tion to make decisions, they would
look at trend lines like this and would
make decisions that were consistent
with it—that as technology became
more available, we could determine
how to put a heart valve in with it
being less invasive through the use of
technology. Over 10 years, we haven’t
figured out how to write a foundational
rule to tell companies how they need to
apply to get an e-cigarette approved.
When we went into this 10 years ago,
HHS claimed that the Department
would need $100 million to establish an
Agency solely focused on tobacco prod-
ucts. We did them one better. We im-
posed user fees on the tobacco indus-
try. For every piece of tobacco product
that is sold, they paid to the FDA a
user fee on that product. It is that user
fee that has funded the FDA effort.
In 2019, the FDA received $712 million
in user fees from the industry. Let me
put that in perspective. Everybody who
buys a tobacco product is paying a
higher price today so that this money
can go to the FDA so the FDA, hope-
fully, will create a foundational path-
way that will allow them to approve
and receive applications for reduced-
harm products.
It is very consistent with this trend
line of money we pumped into edu-
cation to reduce youth usage and to en-
courage adults to switch, but until it is
illegal in the United States, adults
ought to have the freedom to choose
the products they want.
Unfortunately, 10 years later, we are
in no better position than we were 10
years ago, where the choices are com-
bustible products or products that have
yet to even have an established path-
way by the FDA.
Those who are venturing out today
offering e-cigarettes and alternatives
are doing it with the understanding
that tomorrow the FDA could walk in
and say: We are going to pull this prod-
uct off the marketplace because it
hasn’t been approved. Yet the FDA has
never created the pathway and shown
an individual or a company the appli-
cation process to get a product like
this approved.
Ten years ago, before TCA was signed
into law, there were 14 Agencies that
regulated tobacco in the United States.
It was the Treasury Department, the
Transportation Department, Com-
merce, Justice, the Executive Office of
the President, HHS, Education, Labor,
and the General Services Administra-
tion. It is now consolidated into one.
You would think that we would do a
much better job of doing it.
I am going to share with you the con-
clusion, and I will come back to this a
couple of times.
There is an age restriction on the
purchase of tobacco today. It is 18. We
can have a debate as to whether it
should be 21. We can have a debate
about moving the age.
But when an agency that has the sole
control of tobacco cannot enforce the
age requirement for it to be purchased,
you have to ask yourself, by taking
away options that adults have, does
that in any way, shape, or form affect
youth usage when the youth are ille-
gally accessing the product today?
You see, back when 14 agencies con-
trolled it—and being a former Gov-
ernor, the Presiding Officer may re-
member some of this—States actually
enforced because the Federal mandate
was to enforce the age requirements.
They do it on alcohol today, and in
some places, they do it on tobacco. But
when we centralized all of the author-
ity at the FDA, the FDA apparently
gave up on the age requirement, and
they only focused on things like this,
where they can manipulate through
government regulation, through oner-
ous actions on the consumers, what
they want to accomplish, which I
would suggest to my colleagues and to
the American people is not driven by
facts or science; it is driven by politics.
It is driven by those who want to see
this product eliminated.
I will say what I said 10 years ago: I
am ready for the debate. Let’s bring it
to the floor, and we can talk about it
and debate it.
This is eerily similar to Canada a few
years ago when they banned menthol
products. How did they follow that up?
This year, they legalized cannabis.
Maybe that is the route we are on. We
can have that debate at any point, but
right now, that is illegal in the United
States, and we put up with it with
States that have legalized it. I am not
sure it is a good move for adults, and I
am not sure it is a good move for our
youth. It certainly has the same com-
bustible concerns we have with tobacco
products. But there is a difference be-
tween the two—this is legal. We have
agreed that if you are over 18, you can
choose to use it—with an extensive
educational campaign to tell every-
body why it is harmful to their health.
Also 10 years ago, I offered an amend-
ment to create a department within
HHS known as the Tobacco Harm Re-
duction Center, requiring public rank-
ing of tobacco products according to
their risk. That amendment would
have allowed for the development of
new products to encourage individuals
to give up traditional tobacco products
and turn to less harmful products.
I remember the debate well. My col-
leagues who were opposed to me in the
debate said: If we centralize this at
FDA, the natural reaction will be that
they will migrate to not only the appli-
cation being understood as to how to
process it, but they will be inclined to
approve those products quickly because
of the alternative that we know today.
Here we are 10 years later, and we
have no transitional, foundational
pathway for a manufacturer to know
how to apply to the FDA or what
standards they have to meet. It is al-
most as if we are going to make it up
as we go along. Therefore, these prod-
ucts are on the marketplace, but there
is no application process at the FDA.
They are susceptible to millions of dol-
lars of investment being yanked tomor-
row because somebody wakes up and
says: My gosh. Youth have started
using e-cigarettes. The Presiding Offi-
cer knows there is an 18-year-old age
requirement on e-cigarettes as well. Is
the answer to that to remove all of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.016 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S783
January 31, 2019
that product for every American be-
cause we can’t figure out a way to en-
force an age limitation? I would sug-
gest to my colleagues, if that is where
we are headed, we are going to elimi-
nate some products that will cause
chaos in this country.
I suggest that this will not cause
chaos, but this will be the wrong signal
to send to adults who prefer to use this
product, and we do it under the false
pretense that we are doing this because
of America’s youth. America’s youth
are doing the right thing. They are re-
ducing their usage of combustible prod-
ucts. They are not enticed by things
like menthol. Yet they are the ones
whom we are using to be the fig leaf of
all this new government regulation
that the Food and Drug Administra-
tion is proposing to do.
Within the office of tobacco control,
there are 778 employees. There are
close to 1,000 employees in the center
for drug review. Put that in perspec-
tive—all the drugs that are out there,
all the applications they are going
through. We have almost as many peo-
ple in the tobacco control agency as we
do in drug review.
Well, the one thing I can assure you
about drug review is that they actually
do process applications. It is long. It is
laborious. We would like to speed that
up. Under the latest PDUFA reauthor-
ization, the user fee for drugs, there is
a 304-day average to process an applica-
tion. Well, the review of a modified
risk—if you change the risk of a com-
bustible, if you have decided as a man-
ufacturer that you are going to change
the paper on the cigarette because
there is technology that assures you
that paper is not going to burn and
somebody is not going to fall asleep
and burn down a house—when they
change that, that has to go through a
modification review at the FDA. How
long does a modification review cur-
rently take? It takes 360 days—56 days
longer than that of a new drug applica-
tion actually working its way through
the Food and Drug Administration.
They can’t claim there are not enough
people. There are ample people, and the
FDA has hired 267 employees in to-
bacco control since 2017. The numbers
may actually be identical now.
As I said earlier, in 2019 the FDA will
receive $712 million in user fees from
the industry. Of the $582 million in user
fees collected by the FDA in 2018,
which we have just completed, $205 mil-
lion originated from the sale of com-
bustible menthol cigarettes. So this
one proposal is going to reduce by one-
third the amount of money that the
regulatory agency has.
I might share with the Presiding Offi-
cer—because I think he would find this
of great interest, having left the State
of Florida as Governor—that there is a
tax revenue piece tied to this. A ban on
the sale of menthol cigarettes will gen-
erate a significant revenue loss for
State, Federal, and local governments.
Last year, menthol sales brought in
$4.1 billion in Federal excise tax, it
brought in $9.1 billion in State and
local excise tax, and it brought in $1.8
billion in State and local sales tax.
That is a total of $15.2 billion. Two-
thirds of it is—State and local govern-
ments will lose over $10 billion in rev-
enue from this one decision, the elimi-
nation of a choice for adults—all under
the belief and sales pitch to the Amer-
ican people that this is going to stop
youth usage of tobacco. Bull. We are
not going to stop youth usage until we
enforce the age limit, whether it is 18,
20, 21, wherever we set it. We elimi-
nated enforcement of the age when 10
years ago we consolidated all of this
into one entity at the Food and Drug
Administration.
So my suggestion to my colleagues is
we have gotten no benefit out of this. If
anything, we have lost because we
don’t enforce age. We have gotten no
new innovative products. We are not
even on the horizon looking at a pro-
posed pathway. There is not a pathway.
I question whether there is even one
perceived, even though we have 1,000
people working at CTP—soon to be cut
by one-third by their own proposal that
is going to eliminate user fees based
upon the loss of sales of menthol prod-
ucts.
So I say to my colleagues, it is ex-
tremely important that you under-
stand that when Commissioner Gott-
lieb announced his reform initiative for
the regulation of tobacco on July 28,
2017—and I recognize the fact that we
move from administration to adminis-
tration, we move from Commissioner
to Commissioner, and most come in
and say: The last guy did it all wrong;
I am going to do it differently. I hold
him to his word on July 28 when he
said that. He said in that announce-
ment: The goals of the new approach
will include the development of
foundational regulations to provide the
rules of the road for the review of to-
bacco product applications and a path
to market for less harmful products as
part of the solution to end the cycle of
disease and death.
Let me repeat what I said earlier.
The FDA has yet to issue a single
foundational rule as called for in July
of 2017. The proposed version of one SE
rule is currently under review at the
OMB.
If you are now the single agency in
charge of the regulation of tobacco and
you are looking at how to reduce the
harm of the product, wouldn’t your
focus first be on how you approve tech-
nological products that meet the
threshold of reduced risk? If you saw
an increase in youth usage, would you
not look at a period of time, like 7
years, and ask yourself, is this an
anomaly?
We will have a report next month
from CDC of their annual tobacco sur-
vey. There must be something alarm-
ing in it relative to youth usage of e-
cigarettes alone, and I don’t dispute
what they found. If, in fact, we find
that menthol took a spike up and they
say 11 percent of our youth are using
it, I will question the science of their
survey, with the trend that has consist-
ently built over the last 7 years.
But I would also make this point: If
there is an age limitation on e-ciga-
rettes, just as there is on combustibles,
are we not smart to first go in and find
an enforcement mechanism for age if,
in fact, our concern is that our youth
are using the product?
In essence, what they have done with
the menthol rule is they suggested: We
don’t want to enforce the age thing.
That is hard. What is easy for us to do
is to do something that is political. It
doesn’t change much, but we can go
out and say ‘‘Look at what we did. We
eliminated access to this product.’’
The majority of the people who use
this product are adults. The tax reve-
nues at the State, local, and Federal
levels are huge.
As a matter of fact, one of the settle-
ments that were made prior to the To-
bacco Control Act was the Master Set-
tlement Agreement. That was before
the Presiding Office was Governor and
before some in this room might have
been born. It was in 1998, and it was a
significant change for an industry.
They agreed not only to defray Med-
icaid costs at the State level; they
agreed to an annual payment. That an-
nual payment was more than $200 bil-
lion in manufacturer funds to defray
the cost of healthcare to States
through Medicaid resulting from the
use of tobacco products and to develop
cessation programs to get Americans
to quit smoking.
Let me suggest to you that it is not
the industry that is fighting this; it is
the industry that is fueling this. They
are funding it. They are the ones fund-
ing the CTP. They are the ones funding
the education programs. They are actu-
ally the ones that are supplementing
Medicaid funding in States.
Well, let me say to Commissioner
Gottlieb and to those bright folks over
at CTP: When you do this, you are
eliminating a portion of that $200 bil-
lion that is calculated based upon the
sale of products in the marketplace,
and you are reducing the shared cost of
Medicaid. For many States that have
diverted that money to other things,
you are reducing economic develop-
ment. I think one State was building
sidewalks with tobacco money in one
large city.
I could be critical of how they have
done it and what they have used it for,
but I do know this: I went far enough
in math to know that if you reduce the
amount of sales and if the payment is
figured based on sales, then you reduce
the take States and cities are going to
get from taxes or from the settlement.
So I say to my colleagues, con-
centrate on this number—2.5 percent
was the last number the CDC came out
and said that of our youth, this is the
percentage that use menthol products.
We should not quit until that number
is zero. If you want to make that num-
ber zero for youth under 18 today for
all tobacco products, I have the an-
swer: enforce the law. Hold retailers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.017 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S784 January 31, 2019
accountable. Do the same raids on to-
bacco that you do with alcohol. We
probably will never get to zero, but we
might do better than 2.5 percent of
menthol or 8.5 percent of overall to-
bacco usage.
I want to summarize because I know
there are other colleagues who wish to
speak. I assure my colleagues, and I as-
sure Commissioner Gottlieb and all the
individuals who work at the CTP at the
Food and Drug Administration, I am
going to be down here every week.
These speeches are going to get longer
and longer and they will get more and
more detailed because I want my col-
leagues who aren’t here to understand
the debate we went through, the deci-
sions we made, and the assumptions
that were made for consolidating these
Agencies into one Agency versus mul-
tiple Agencies, and what they said
would happen. I can give my own re-
port card, and I am giving it to you.
They have done zero. All of these mat-
ters about reduced-harm products that
the FDA was going to set up, transi-
tional, foundational rules don’t exist.
It is 10 years later. It is 2 years after
the current Commissioner got in and
said: We are going to do this.
Well, I am still waiting. Rather than
produce things which adults can take
advantage of—tools to get off of com-
bustible cigarettes—what is the action
all of a sudden they take? To
everybody’s amazement, they said: We
are going to ban menthol from the
marketplace.
I mentioned Canada earlier. They
banned menthol and, 3 years later,
they approved cannabis as a legal prod-
uct. I am not accusing the administra-
tion of having that pathway, though it
does raise suspicion because it is not
the administration of reduced regula-
tion and onerous government when you
see what the FDA is proposing to a
legal consumer product, but I will state
that the Commissioner announced not
long ago that they were beginning to
review products that were derived from
cannabis, oils, and other things that
they thought they could safely approve
for use in the United States.
Well, Mr. Commissioner, you are only
fueling my fears that you are following
the roadmap Canada followed; that this
is all a bait-and-switch situation. Not
only is it not valid to suggest we are
doing this because of our youth, you
are doing it to prove that the Food and
Drug Administration can overreach
and not be slapped and that somewhere
down the road you may come to the
same conclusion Canada did; rather
than enforce cannabis and illegal
drugs, let’s just approve them. Let’s
make them legal. Boy, that is a sad
day. It is shocking to me as one who
has been engaged in this debate for now
25 years.
We are extremely worried about the
combustible impact of cigarettes—and
we should be—but States don’t have
any concerns about the combustible
nature of cannabis. There are no filters
on it. There are no regulations on the
paper that is used, even though it is
legal in some States. As a matter of
fact, we have less research on cannabis
in this country than any legal product
that exists, including bandaids.
There is more research and develop-
ment and approval that goes into
bandaids than goes into cannabis in the
States where it is legal for either rec-
reational or medical use.
So I would state to Commissioner
Gottlieb, in the insane world you have
created, if you are going to head down
this road, No. 1, expect Congress to
weigh in but, No. 2, understand that if
you begin to loosen up the legal use of
cannabis, then we are going to hold
you to the same standards you display
for everyone else, everything that you
hold a drug manufacturer to, that you
hold a drug device manufacturer to,
and, quite honestly, that you hold the
tobacco industry to. Don’t think you
are going to slide this by and there are
not going to be regulations or that we
are going to adopt the Canada model or
we are going to continue letting States
do what they are doing.
If you are worried about somebody
burning a product and inhaling it into
their lungs, there better be as much
concern about that as it relates to
marijuana use. Why is there no effort—
given that this is legal from a rec-
reational and medical standpoint—
from the FDA to study this and put the
science out?
It only suggests to me that science is
not important. Yet this is the institu-
tion that is the gold standard for the
use of science. There is a scientific rea-
son for why it takes 304 days to get a
new drug approved. There is no sci-
entific reason that it takes 360 days to
approve as acceptable changing the
paper on a combustible cigarette.
I am not creating this pathway, the
FDA did. It started with the U.S. Con-
gress providing this much authority to
one Agency, an Agency they believed
could do everything. Because they are
not funded by the U.S. Congress for
this piece—they are funded by the in-
dustry—do you know what? They think
Congress has no say in it.
Do you know who funds 75 percent of
new drug applications that are filed,
reviewed, and approved? The drug in-
dustry. Seventy-three percent of appli-
cations they review and approve for the
medical device industry are funded by
the medical device industry.
With regard to generic drugs, which
we all want more of because they drive
down the cost of drugs in America, all
of a sudden the FDA has a backlog that
is years-long for approving generic ap-
plications. They said, if only we had a
user fee agreement for generic drugs,
and that user fee agreement is over 60
percent of the cost of approving a ge-
neric drug. What has happened? The
backlog is every bit as big today as it
was when the user fee was created. So
if my colleagues wonder why I am
standing in the way of a user fee agree-
ment for over-the-counter drugs, it is
because I figured this out.
They get funded by the industry.
Their actual work goes down. The
American people pay the tab for the
user fees that are sent to the FDA,
while the price of drugs, devices, ciga-
rettes, and over-the-counter drugs goes
up. When Congress stands up and says
explain this, they look at us—and we
control 25 percent of their budget for
any given center—and they say: We are
going to go talk to the people who pay
75 percent of our budget, not to you.
The last thing I will share is that 25
years ago it wasn’t like this. Twenty-
five years ago, we appropriated
everybody’s budget in the administra-
tion. One hundred percent of the
money for the FDA was appropriated
by Congress. When I, as a Member of
the U.S. Senate, picked up the phone
and called the FDA, they didn’t want
to answer my question over the phone.
They wanted to come to my office that
day and answer it. They wanted to ac-
tually solve the problem.
I just went through a period of time
where I gave FDA 2 weeks to respond
to letters and, in some cases, it took a
month to get a response.
They don’t think we play a role in
this. Yet we set legislation priorities
for the country. I would suggest to my
colleagues that this is an isolated ex-
ample, that is true, but it is an exam-
ple of a much bigger problem within
the Food and Drug Administration and
this Commissioner; that Congress is in-
significant to them; that you can be
called up to provide oversight in front
of a committee, and you can say what-
ever because we have no clarity and no
transparency inside the system. So
they can tell me the review time has
gone down 47 days since last year. I
don’t know whether it is accurate. I
can only tell you this. I don’t see it in
the numbers of third parties that do re-
views. I see actions such as this with
no science to substantiate it, and I
have to question the science they use
across the landscape of products they
review.
The Food and Drug Administration
regulates 25 cents of every dollar of the
U.S. economy. This ought to be some-
thing that not just my colleagues but
the American people should be con-
cerned with.
If you believe my argument is half
accurate and this is ill-advised, for
God’s sake, pick up the phone and call
the White House switchboard and tell
the President, who came in to reduce
regulation, that there is an Agency
that is not listening.
Not only is there an Agency that is
not listening, the President has a Com-
missioner that went on Twitter, and
there was a tweet that said the Presi-
dent’s numbers are going down, and the
Commissioner ‘‘liked’’ the tweet.
Maybe I will say that a few more times
so the President will see it or hear it,
but maybe somebody is listening who
will tell him.
I am not interested in a single indi-
vidual’s political goal. This has to be
an individual political goal because
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.019 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S785
January 31, 2019
there is no science to substantiate
what they are doing, and the losers are
the localities and States in taxes and
States in settlement payments but,
more importantly, adults who choose
this product because it is legal.
Now the FDA says, with the strike of
a pen: We can eliminate it. It is no
longer a choice you have.
That is not the America I signed up
for, but I did sign up to come here and
fight for things I thought weren’t in
the best long-term interests of the
country. This is at the top of my list
right now. You will hear me often.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The Senator from Iowa.
(The remarks of Ms. ERNST per-
taining to the introduction of S. 285 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Ms. ERNST. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
(The remarks of Mr. SANDERS per-
taining to the introduction of S. 309 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I yield
the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the cloture
vote on the McConnell amendment
occur at 3 p.m. today, and the filing
deadline for second-degree amendments
apply as if the vote occurred at the
originally scheduled time of 3:30 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Ms. COLLINS per-
taining to the introduction of S. 296 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Ms. COLLINS. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
to discuss challenges that influence
nearly every component of our day-to-
day lives and the opportunity to ad-
dress these challenges in the 116th Con-
gress.
No matter who you are, where you
live, or your level of income, every one
of us is affected by our Nation’s trans-
portation system. I believe, as most
Nebraskans do, that a core responsi-
bility of the Federal Government is to
provide sufficient and sustainable
transportation and infrastructure to
all of our citizens. Our transportation
system is critical to our national secu-
rity, to our economy, and to our public
safety. Here in the Senate, I have
worked hard to remove the unneces-
sary obstacles to the safe and efficient
flow of goods and people throughout
our country and around the world, and
I plan to continue that work as we
begin this Congress.
This is a priority that is of particular
importance to my State of Nebraska.
Agriculture is the economic engine of
our State’s economy. According to the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office, Ne-
braska is the fifth largest agricultural
exporting State. To continue moving
our products from the heartland to the
coasts and beyond, we need an effi-
cient, an effective, and a safe transpor-
tation system. Few understand this
better than Nebraskans. We rely on the
connection of our roads and highways,
railroads, ports, and ocean carriers to
bring goods and services to the world
market. We use trucks to haul live-
stock across the country. Our railroads
and waterways move vast quantities of
grain across the prairie and to the
coasts, and our ports and ocean vessels
move these commodities around the
world.
For Nebraska to continue benefiting
from domestic and international trade,
it is vital that we build and maintain
our infrastructure, reduce unnecessary
regulatory burdens, and promote safety
across the surface transportation net-
work. We must also recognize that con-
nections across all of these modes—
truck, rail, waterway, ocean, and air—
must function smoothly for the system
to work.
In the Senate Commerce, Science,
and Transportation Committee, I am
proud to, once again, chair the Sub-
committee on Surface Transportation
and Merchant Marine Infrastructure,
Safety and Security, which oversees
the important surface transportation
issues. This will be my fifth year as
chairman, and I am looking forward to
continuing the effective accomplish-
ments that my colleagues and I have
made.
Specifically, in 2015, we worked
across party lines to pass the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act,
more commonly known as the FAST
Act. This was the first long-term high-
way bill that had been passed by Con-
gress in over a decade, and it included
several positive reforms to our surface
transportation system. It recognized
the importance of freight movement as
part of the broader infrastructure de-
bate by including a new freight for-
mula program and a freight specific
grant program. It gave key State and
local officials the flexibility they need-
ed to develop strategic investments in
their communities.
Together, we have improved the flow
of commercial traffic and increased the
safety of America’s roads, but there is
still much work to be done. With the
116th Congress underway, we have
much to do on transportation policy.
Of note is the quickly approaching
expiration of the FAST Act reauthor-
ization in September of 2020. The trans-
portation and safety subcommittee,
which oversees the Department of
Transportation and a number of modal
administrations, will be hard at work
on our part of that FAST Act reauthor-
ization. Administrations under the ju-
risdiction of the subcommittee include
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Ad-
ministration, the Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration, and the National High-
way Traffic Safety Administration.
Each of these modal administrations
will be closely examined by the sub-
committee.
We will be holding hearings on Fed-
eral trucking policy and will be pro-
viding oversight for the FMCSA. The
trucking industry is critical to our
economy because it moves the most
freight by volume and value across this
country. As such, we will be examining
a number of trucking issues, including
hours of service requirements, the
Compliance, Safety, Accountability
Program, and the very wide scope of
trucking regulations. Moving forward,
we will work together to find safe,
practical solutions to these issues.
Additionally, we must carefully con-
sider policies to support our port facili-
ties and the connections they make be-
tween truck and rail networks to ocean
shipping. It may sound funny to my
colleagues that a Senator from a triple
landlocked State like Nebraska is ad-
vocating the support of our ports and
ocean shipping industry. Yet, as I
noted earlier, Nebraska is the fifth
largest agriculture exporting State in
the Nation, and whether it is beef or
grain or equipment, we depend on our
ports to ensure our quality products
reach around the world.
There are currently a wide variety of
issues facing this key portion of our
transportation system. Ocean carriers
are using even bigger vessels, which
has greatly increased the amount of
freight moving through the ports and
is affecting the connections to other
transportation modes.
Port operations are becoming in-
creasingly complex, and stakeholders
are examining ways to support freight
movement by better utilizing data,
such as GE Portal at the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach.
Ports are taking advantage of new
types of infrastructure, like inland
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.020 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S786 January 31, 2019
ports, while also addressing new chal-
lenges such as a shortage of chassis to
move the containers.
State and local governments, indus-
try, labor, and the Commissioners at
the Federal Maritime Commission are
reviewing these and other important
issues to the maritime commerce sys-
tem. We need to hear from all of these
stakeholders to better understand
these challenges and these opportuni-
ties before us.
Additionally, last year, the Federal
Railroad Administration oversaw one
of the biggest changes to our railroad
network in recent history—the imple-
mentation of positive train control, or
PTC.
There are 41 railroads that are re-
quired by Congress to install and to use
PTC on their systems. I was glad to see
the statement from the FRA that all 41
railroads met the deadline to submit
documentation that they are either
utilizing PTC or that they have com-
pleted the requirements to receive an
extension, as required by the Positive
Train Control Enforcement and Imple-
mentation Act of 2015. This, however,
was the first of two major deadlines for
PTC implementation.
Railroads that receive an extension
must complete their PTC systems no
later than December 31, 2020. Congress
must continue its oversight of PTC im-
plementation, especially as railroads
work to achieve that interoperability
across the network.
The Transportation and Safety Sub-
committee will be looking at PTC but
also at regulations and railroad invest-
ments more broadly, both at the Fed-
eral Railroad Administration and at
the Surface Transportation Board.
Late in the 115th Congress, the Sen-
ate confirmed Patrick Fuchs and Mar-
tin Oberman to be members of the
STB, and I look forward to working
with the Board and its new members on
rail commerce issues.
The Transportation and Safety Sub-
committee will also examine pipeline
safety issues as we prepare for a reau-
thorization of the Pipeline and Haz-
ardous Materials Safety Administra-
tion. For families, consumers, workers,
and businesses, the safety and security
of our pipeline network must remain a
top priority. America’s pipelines move
vital energy to homes and businesses in
Nebraska and throughout our Nation.
Congress must continue its robust
oversight of our pipeline network.
In 2016, we worked in a bipartisan
manner to pass a bill I introduced—
what ultimately became known as the
PIPES Act—to reauthorize PHMSA
through fiscal year 2019.
The Transportation and Safety Sub-
committee will be working to reau-
thorize PHMSA with an eye toward im-
proving the efficiency and the effec-
tiveness of the Agency’s pipeline over-
sight. We will continue ensuring the
Agency has what it needs to complete
its pending rulemakings.
As Congress begins its work on these
surface transportation issues, I look
forward to working with the adminis-
tration on policies that cut redtape and
improve the movement of people and
freight across our system.
During the last Congress, I was very
pleased to twice host Transportation
Secretary Elaine Chao to Nebraska,
and I look forward to continuing to
work with the Secretary and the Modal
Administrators. I also look forward to
working with Senator DUCKWORTH, the
new ranking member of the Transpor-
tation and Safety Subcommittee, and
with all of my colleagues on the sub-
committee so we can find bipartisan
solutions for our surface transpor-
tation system.
We have a very unique opportunity
to work together to improve the daily
lives of all Americans. This is so much
more than just drawing a few lines on
the map. It means making decisions
that will help parents get their chil-
dren to school using safe and reliable
roads. It means ensuring our commer-
cial truckdrivers, railroads, ports,
ocean carriers, and all those in between
can ship products made in Nebraska to
the rest of the country and all over the
world. It means connecting American
communities.
During my chairmanship, I will en-
courage strategic, targeted, and long-
term investments that improve safety
and more efficiently facilitate com-
merce. By working together, we can de-
liver solutions that will allow Amer-
ican families, communities, and busi-
nesses to thrive for generations to
come.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
AMENDMENT NO. 65
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I come to
speak about the pending amendment
we are going to vote on in about 25
minutes. It is an amendment that says
it is a mistake to proceed with the
withdrawal from Syria in the pace and
scale that is currently proposed or that
the White House has announced they
are going to undertake.
What I will say here today is what I
said about it initially; that is, that I
think it is a bad idea. I said it then,
and I said it to the President in a sub-
sequent meeting, and I think it is im-
portant to restate it here as we begin
to vote, since I believe this issue is
going to be covered in the press more
as a political issue than as a foreign
policy one.
It is unfortunate that a lot of these
issues are wrapped up as political deci-
sions. These are not votes on political
decisions. These are votes on the con-
duct of American foreign policy, which
oftentimes have no partisan lines but
rather are ideological, in some cases,
or just simply a different way to view
an issue.
I share the White House’s and the
President’s desire that as quickly as
possible—the key words being ‘‘as pos-
sible’’—we end conflicts abroad. It is in
the best interest of our Nation, our
families, and the families of the service
men and women who are stationed
abroad and involved in conflict zones
that this be the case. The problem is, if
you do so in the wrong way, you end up
dramatically increasing the likelihood
of a future conflict that will involve
even bigger wars, with an even higher
investment of lives and resources to
win.
Our foreign policy in the Middle East
today—particularly in this region we
are talking about with Syria and Iraq—
is focused on two primary objectives,
as clearly stated by the policymakers.
The first is the regional threat of Iran,
its growing influence and its spreading
reach, and the other is counterterror-
ism. These are the two linchpins of
why we are there in the first place.
The Iran threat is self-explanatory.
They pose a threat to our allies in the
region, particularly Israel but ulti-
mately to the United States. The ter-
ror threat is one that reminds us how
quickly we as a nation have a tendency
to forget things.
Now, no one has forgotten September
11, 2001, but what we sometimes fail to
remember is what made it possible in
the first place. What made September
11, 2001, possible in the first place was
that a terrorist organization—al-
Qaida—led by Osama bin Laden, had es-
tablished within Afghanistan a safe
haven. Al-Qaida was not the Govern-
ment of Afghanistan—that was the
Taliban—but the Taliban allowed them
to have a safe haven in Afghanistan,
and from that safe haven, they were
able to plot terrorist attacks against
America and ultimately strike us here
in the homeland. It was possible be-
cause they had a place that allowed
them to do this.
It is, in fact, the key to any terrorist
organization that would like to con-
duct external attacks and that would
like to attack America. They have to
have a place to operate from, and it
cannot be a place where they are being
followed, where they are being at-
tacked, and where they are being wiped
out by Americans or coalition forces. It
has to be a safe haven.
My No. 1 concern about this decision
that has been made is that it could
lead to the reestablishment of safe ha-
vens inside of Syria from which ISIS
and al-Qaida could reconstitute them-
selves, conduct external plotting, and
ultimately attack the United States.
We already face this risk. In North-
west Syria today, there is very little
sustained pressure on ISIS elements. In
Idlib, there is virtually no pressure on
al-Qaida. Now, imagine with even less
coalition pressure being put upon
them, how capable they can become
and how quickly they can establish a
place from which they can plot against
us.
To understand why ISIS needs to plot
against us and conduct spectacular at-
tacks against Europe and the United
States—this is a group that needs to
prove it is still alive, and it is still
strong. If they can’t prove it, they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.030 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S787
January 31, 2019
can’t recruit people, and they can’t
raise money.
They are also in competition with
other terrorist groups. In fact, ISIS is
a spinoff of al-Qaida. These groups ac-
tually compete with one another for
members and for resources. Both of
them have a vested interest in attack-
ing us abroad, not just in fulfillment of
some ideological aims but as a means
of survival because if these groups are
able to conduct or inspire these kinds
of attacks, it gives them credibility,
they attract members and fighters, and
it allows them to raise money for more
attacks.
Some people will tell you: Well, let
the others who are in the region take
care of them—Turkey or Iran or the re-
gime or the Russians. The problem is,
none of these groups have shown any
interest in fighting ISIS, not even a
limited interest.
The Turks are largely interested in a
buffer zone in the northern part of
Syria—a buffer zone which the Kurds
do not dominate because of their own
internal politics. I am not claiming the
Turks are fans of ISIS. I am saying
ISIS is not their No. 1 priority.
Their No. 1 priority is defeating
Kurdish forces and gaining control of a
buffer zone in the northern part of
Syria. That is what they are going to
prioritize above anything and every-
where else. They are not a reliable
partner, nor do they have the capa-
bility to be a reliable partner in sus-
taining pressure on ISIS.
Interestingly enough, if you look at
what Turkey will need—even if they
wanted to be a sustained partner
against ISIS—it is logistical support
from the United States of America. In
essence, they can’t even do what they
are promising to do unless we are there
with them to do it, but they don’t want
us to be there. That tells you they real-
ly just want us to leave so they can
create this zone in the northern part of
Syria.
The regime only cares about ISIS if
they are in population areas or if ISIS
is threatening critical infrastructure.
If ISIS is taking ahold of an oil facility
somewhere, they will care. If ISIS is in
the middle of a big city, they will care.
All of these other vast spaces, they
don’t have the resources, and frankly
they don’t care, as long as they don’t
pose a threat to the regime, they don’t
pose a threat to population centers
they want to control, and they don’t
pose a threat to critical infrastructure
like oil. If they are not there, they are
not going to spend their limited re-
sources.
All things being equal, they probably
want to defeat them, but they don’t
have the wherewithal to sustain pres-
sure on them. They have limited re-
sources, and they are going to invest
those resources in controlling popu-
lation centers and in controlling crit-
ical infrastructure.
So here is the answer: If the United
States and the anti-ISIS coalition are
not in Syria and operating until ISIS is
completely wiped out, there will be no
sustained pressure on ISIS or on al-
Qaida, and they will both grow back
stronger, and they will have the capa-
bility to plot against the homeland and
American interests around the world.
That is something we cannot allow to
happen. We cannot have that happen.
Some may say: Well, we can target
them. We just don’t have to have 1,500
or 1,800 special operators on the
ground. We don’t need to do that. We
can do it through the air and so forth.
ISIS is becoming an insurgency. An in-
surgency is much different than a
group with a flag that controls build-
ings and territory. You can find those
people, and you can strike them. An in-
surgency is people who blend into the
population.
By day, they are a baker or an ac-
countant or a merchant, but in the eve-
nings and at night, they are an ISIS
fighter planting bombs and killing peo-
ple. Insurgencies are very difficult to
fight and almost impossible, if not im-
possible, to fight with simply airpower,
which is why the situation in Syria has
been so positive. Two thousand Amer-
ican servicemen and special operators,
alongside thousands of Syrian Demo-
cratic Forces and Kurds—who are pri-
marily doing the ground fighting with
our logistical support and air support—
have eroded ISIS’s control of territory
in the country, but they have not
eliminated it, and there is enough of it
left that it could reconstitute itself. In
fact, it is in the process of doing so al-
ready. They are clearly capable of kill-
ing American servicemen, as they did a
few days ago, and since that time,
there have been a series of other IED
attacks inside of Syria, some of which
could have killed Americans.
This is a group who has openly
talked about their desire to possess
chemical weapons, which they could
use at any moment, potentially,
against Syrian Democratic Forces and
Kurds in that area—and, by the way,
putting directly in danger our remain-
ing service men and women alongside
them. This remains a dangerous group
capable of conducting attacks not just
in Syria but potentially—especially if
they have a safe haven abroad—here in
the United States.
That is not to even mention a group
who doesn’t get talked about enough
anymore—al-Qaida. Al-Qaida still ex-
ists, and there is a part of Syria in
which they are completely
uncontested. No one is going after
them. They completely dominate the
area, and they do whatever they want
from there. And I promise you they are
not there starting a car wash; they are
there working to expand their brand
and reach, to resurrect the al-Qaida
brand around the world. What is the
fastest way to do that? By conducting
an attack against the United States
and our interests. We should be worried
about that alone.
The first reason why I am against
this policy and why I support this
amendment is that this policy directly
undermines one of the two pillars of
our strategy and our policy in this re-
gion, and that is counterterrorism. The
second is the spread of Iranian influ-
ence. Let there be no doubt that this
withdrawal as currently structured is a
win—perceptually at a minimum but I
believe in reality—for Iran.
Let’s begin in Southern Syria, the
areas that border Israel and Jordan.
Our withdrawal means Iran and their
pro-Iranian forces that include
Hezbollah militias will now have even
more operating space from which to
target Israel and will now be able to
set up a more reliable ground route by
which they can send weaponry into
Lebanon to support Hezbollah so that
one day they can attack Israel from
the air with rockets, precision-guided
munitions, and the like.
We see it already, for example, in
Natanz, where the United States still
maintains a presence very near a huge
refugee camp. We can already see the
pro-Iran, pro-regime forces beginning
to encroach closer and closer upon the
American position, to the point where
we may have to leave simply because
we no longer have a defensive posture
we can sustain. But what the with-
drawal has done is it has allowed Iran
and the pro-regime forces to go to our
allies, to go to the groups on the
ground whom we have been working
with to fight ISIS and say to them
‘‘The Americans are unreliable. The
Americans are leaving. You might as
well partner up with us now. We are
the only ones who can protect you’’ or
‘‘You can lay down your weapons and
just go back to your families because
Americans are leaving.’’ I fear it is
working. I fear that they may dictate
the pace of our withdrawal, because
that announcement alone has under-
mined our credibility in the eyes of the
partners we have worked with in
Southern Syria.
What I just outlined is also true in
the north, where the Kurds are facing
the risk of military attack from the
Turks, and they are saying: America is
leaving, and the only people left whom
we can partner up with to protect us
are Iran and the regime and/or the Rus-
sians.
In fact, we have left them no choice
but to join up with Iran and the Rus-
sians and pro-regime forces because if
the choice is between annihilation by a
Turkish military attack and joining up
with a regime to stop a Turkish intru-
sion, they are joining up with a regime
in Iran, further increasing Iran’s power
in this country.
It is not just contained within Syria;
this announcement has actually accel-
erated the process of putting pressure
on us to also get out of Iraq. All of the
pro-Iran political parties inside the
Iraqi Parliament are pushing very
hard, very aggressively to pass a law
that kicks America out of Iraq, and
they are moving quickly on this. We
see their tentacles in Afghanistan,
where they are beginning to create in-
ternal political pressure through their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 31, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.031 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S788 January 31, 2019
parliamentary body to force America
to pick a date: Tell us when you are
leaving, a date certain.
People may say: What is wrong with
this? Get out of Syria. Get out of Iraq.
Get out of Afghanistan. Why are we
fighting other people’s wars?
We are not. These are not other peo-
ple’s wars; these are ours. These people
who are going to operate in these safe
havens and Iran—we are their target.
They want to strike at us. And if we
are not in Afghanistan and we are not
in Iraq and we are not in Syria, then
from where exactly are we going to
conduct operations against terrorism?
From where exactly are we going to be
postured to defend ourselves if Iran de-
cides to strike our other military fa-
cilities in the region? The answer is, we
won’t have anyplace to do that from.
We won’t. Not to mention what it says
to the region.
Understand this: The Iranians and
our enemies in the region have been
telling everyone for a long time—and
the Russians echo this—‘‘The Ameri-
cans are unreliable. They always aban-
don their friends. You can’t count on
them’’ or ‘‘America is a declining
power.’’ That is the other argument
they use openly: ‘‘America is a great
power in decline, and every year that
goes by, you will see that they can’t
back up their words, and that is why
you can’t count on them. America is
weakened.’’ I don’t believe that is true.
In fact, we know that is not true. But
halfway around the world, they do, and
when we take actions that prove it, it
makes it true in the minds of a lot of
people and a lot of countries, and it ac-
tually is dangerous because it could in-
vite someone to take a reckless and ir-
responsible action on the basis of mis-
calculation. Someone may actually be-
lieve ‘‘America is now weak; let’s at-
tack them,’’ and then we will be in a
war.
The best way to prevent a war is to
make sure those who want to fight you
know they have no chance of winning.
If you give them any belief that they
have a chance to win because you have
withdrawn and, as a result, reinforced
the narrative being used against you, I
believe you will have increased the
chance of war.
This is being used against us right
now. Iran is openly parroting this.
They are holding this up as an example
of an Iranian win. They are saying:
This proves our strategy has been
working. The Americans are leaving
Syria. They are going to have to leave
Iraq. They are going to leave Afghani-
stan with their tail between their legs.
We are winning, and they are losing.
It reinforces a narrative, by the way,
that is also used against us by the Chi-
nese and other parts of the world.
This is a very dangerous situation.
That is why this is a bad idea. This is
about a lot more than just pulling out
and not wasting any more money in
these other places. There is no one in
the world who wishes that more than I
do. I wish the money, I wish the lives,
I wish all of this investment had not
had to be spent. I openly wonder, how
much more could we be doing if we
didn’t have this threat? But here is the
problem: Whether or not we want it to
exist, the Iranian threat and the threat
of terrorism exist.
We cannot deal with the world the
way we want it to be; we have to deal
with the world the way it is. We didn’t
create the terror threat, but it is there.
We can ignore ISIS, we can ignore al-
Qaida, and we can ignore Iran, but they
will not ignore us. We can decide not to
go after them, but they will come after
us.
I think it is a grave mistake because
if we allow al-Qaida or ISIS or both to
have a resurgence, they will attack the
United States of America, they will at-
tack our allies and our interests
around the world, and they will try and
they will plot to attack us here at
home. The Iranian influence operation
and their growth and influence in Iraq
and Syria and now in Lebanon and in-
creasingly in Yemen—and God forbid,
in the future, in Bahrain—pose an exis-
tential threat to all of our allies in this
region—none more so than the State of
Israel. That is why I support this
amendment. That is why I hope all of
my colleagues will support this amend-
ment.
It is important that the legislative
branch and the Senate, which has a
constitutional role to play in the set-
ting of American foreign policy—they
come to us to confirm people, and they
come to us to fund these things—that
we play our rightful role in the setting
of American foreign policy. It is impor-
tant that the Senate be on the right
side of this issue so that we can hope to
influence future actions and policies
before they are taken and we can help
change them once they have been
taken in places headed in the wrong di-
rection.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the
McConnell amendment expresses the
sense of the Senate regarding the with-
drawal of U.S. troops from Syria and
Afghanistan, an action I have long sup-
ported. Many Senators, including sev-
eral of the cosponsors of the amend-
ment, have supported the exact oppo-
site position and would prefer to send
more U.S. troops to both countries.
I believe that our military and diplo-
matic presence in Syria and Afghani-
stan should be determined by strategy
and not by Presidential whims. I be-
lieve that our strategy should be devel-
oped with the thoughtful input of ex-
perts, both in executive agencies and in
Congress. I believe that strategy
should be consulted and coordinated
with allies and partners and that it
should be debated thoroughly in Con-
gress. I believe that our commitments
should not be open-ended and should
have realistic and achievable goals
that bring them to completion.
As the new Congress convened,
amidst a government shutdown, the
majority leader sought to bring S. 1,
this so-called Middle East security bill,
to the floor. Now, he has brought a
hastily drafted amendment to the
table, one that on its face seems to re-
buke the President’s impulsive an-
nouncement earlier this month that he
was precipitously withdrawing troops
from Syria. Congress should debate
this issue. I support bringing our
troops home from Syria and Afghani-
stan, and the manner and pace in
which that occurs should be the subject
of a full debate here in the Senate. We
should have a debate about the scope of
authorities under current authoriza-
tions for the use of military force,
AUMFs, and whether new AUMFs are
warranted. This amendment may be de-
signed to put Members on the record
opposing the President’s announce-
ment, but in Congress, we should have
more meaningful debates that influ-
ence policy and practice rather than
fuel headlines.
I hope the majority leader will soon
schedule that debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the vote
scheduled for 3 p.m. occur now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the Sen-
ate amendment No. 65 to Calendar No. 1, S.
1, a bill to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, John Thune, Thom
Tillis, John Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Roy
Blunt, Josh Hawley, Rick Scott, Deb
Fischer, David Perdue, Mike Rounds,
John Barrasso, Johnny Isakson, Cory
Gardner, Dan Sullivan, Steve Daines,
Todd Young.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on amendment No.
65, offered by the Senator from Ken-
tucky, Mr. MCCONNELL, to S. 1, a bill to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:17 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.032 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S789
January 31, 2019
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN),
the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL),
the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE), and the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. SULLIVAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ and the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. SCHUMER. I announce that the
Senator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) and the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) are
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 68,
nays 23, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 13 Leg.]
YEAS—68
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—23
Baldwin
Booker
Cardin
Cruz
Gillibrand
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Markey
Merkley
Murphy
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Alexander
Blunt
Brown
Durbin
Isakson
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Sullivan
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). On this vote, the yeas are 68,
the nays are 23.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
AMENDMENT NO. 96 TO AMENDMENT NO. 65
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I call
up Menendez amendment No. 96.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The bill clerk read as follows:
The Senator from New Jersey [Mr. MENEN-
DEZ] proposes an amendment numbered 96 to
amendment No. 65.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the reading of
the amendment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To clarify that the amendment
shall not be construed as a declaration of
war or an authorization of the use of mili-
tary force)
At the end of the amendment, add the fol-
lowing:
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed as a declara-
tion of war or an authorization of the use of
military force.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. I would like to ask Sen-
ator MENENDEZ, is it your under-
standing that your amendment does
not affect any existing legal authori-
ties governing the use of military
force?
Mr. MENENDEZ. Yes, that is my un-
derstanding. My amendment should
not be construed to affect in any way
any existing authorities governing the
use of military force. It only clarifies
that the McConnell amendment is not
an authorization for the use of military
force or a declaration of war.
Mr. RISCH. I thank Senator MENEN-
DEZ. Based on our understanding of
your amendment, I will be supporting
it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, the
Senate just invoked cloture on the ma-
jority leader’s amendment, and I now
rise to urge support for my second-de-
gree amendment, the one where the
colloquy included in the RECORD be-
tween the chair of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee and me leads to
the conclusion of his support. I believe
the amendment will also have the sup-
port of the majority leader and the rest
of the body. The inclusion of my
amendment will be essential for my
vote in support in terms of moving for-
ward.
As I have stated over the past month,
I continue to be seriously concerned
that precipitously withdrawing U.S.
troops from Syria and Afghanistan will
deeply harm American interests and
security. With that in mind, I am gen-
erally supportive of Senator MCCON-
NELL’s amendment to S. 1, which
echoes what I have been saying for
much of the past 2 years, calling on the
administration to develop a real strat-
egy for securing our interests in the
Middle East, including combating ter-
rorist groups and effectively con-
fronting Iranian and Russian aggres-
sion, and calling on the administration
to more effectively engage with the
legislative branch.
I share in the belief that the way in
which the President announced his
Syria withdrawal—with no plan, with-
out consultation with Congress or our
allies or consideration of the implica-
tion for our partners—is not in our in-
terest. American troops on the ground
are on the frontline, fighting for our
interests and also providing leverage to
achieve diplomatic success.
At the same time, it is imperative
that this body, which has the responsi-
bility to authorize the use of military
force, emphasize that such force alone
will not protect our interests; that
military force alone cannot defeat
ISIS, al-Qaida, or other nonstate ac-
tors; and that military force alone will
not provide enduring, sustainable peace
and security against our adversaries.
More importantly, when we do send
our sons and daughters into combat, we
should do so only after careful consid-
eration and consultation and with
clear objectives and strategy—a strat-
egy that requires investments into dip-
lomatic efforts in coordination with
our allies and partners.
I want to make it crystal clear that
the McConnell amendment cautioning
against a precipitous withdrawal of
U.S. troops in no way constitutes Sen-
ate support for their permanent pres-
ence for an undefined mission. As a
legal matter, my amendment makes
clear one critical point: Nothing in the
McConnell amendment can be con-
strued as an authorization for the use
of military force. Authorizing military
force is simply not part of the debate
on either the McConnell amendment or
S. 1.
At the end of the day, I would like to
see all of our troops back home and off
the battlefield. I believe we must con-
tinue to have comprehensive strategies
to achieve that outcome.
So, in conclusion, I believe the ma-
jority leader’s amendment sends an im-
portant message to the President—that
while he is the Commander in Chief,
the legislative branch will continue to
exercise the due diligence and over-
sight of his actions regarding our secu-
rity and interests abroad. It also sends
a message that the United States will
not abandon our allies and our part-
ners.
I particularly worry about the Kurds
in this regard, who have been some of
the most significant fighters on the
ground in Syria and who are also in
pursuit of our interests there. We can-
not send a global message that once we
have finished using you for our pur-
poses, we will leave you to die on the
battlefield. That sends a message
across the globe: Don’t fight, and don’t
join the United States because when it
finishes with you, it will leave you to
die on the battlefield.
I want to make it clear to the Amer-
ican people, however, that we are not
in the business of authorizing open-
ended conflicts or of keeping our troops
on the battlefield forever. Our safety
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.036 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S790 January 31, 2019
and security depend on holistic, com-
prehensive strategies, and I look for-
ward to working with my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to ensure that
we are effectively using our powers to
make sure the President is effectively
using his.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE’S
HEARING ON WORLDWIDE THREATS
Mr. KING. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss for a few moments reflections
upon the hearing we had this week in
the Intelligence Committee on world-
wide threats. This is an annual hearing
and is in public, at least the first part.
Then there is a closed session after-
ward with the heads of our intelligence
Agencies—the CIA, the FBI, the NSA,
the Defense Intelligence Agency, and,
of course, with the Director of National
Intelligence.
This is an important hearing because
it basically outlines to the American
people the threats we face and the seri-
ousness of those threats. It is an oppor-
tunity for those of us on the committee
and for Members of the Senate in gen-
eral to understand the nature of the
threats, what the intelligence is, and
what the information is that we have
to help us make good policy decisions.
Good intelligence is crucial to mak-
ing good decisions. We live in an in-
credibly complex world, and my work
on the Intelligence and Armed Services
Committees over the past 6 years has
educated me as to just how complex
and difficult a lot of these issues are. I
remember a long discussion about the
Middle East at one of the Intelligence
Committee meetings, and one of the
members on the committee said that
this is a really hard, complicated sub-
ject. The witness that day, who was
from the CIA, said: ‘‘Welcome to the
Middle East.’’
These are very difficult issues, but in
order to make rational, thoughtful, im-
portant, and very results-oriented deci-
sions based upon the information from
these hearings, we have to know the
facts. We have to understand what the
implications are and what the likely
results are but also, more fundamen-
tally, just what is going on, on the
ground. Whether you look back 50
years, 100 years, or 150 years, often our
worst foreign policy misadventures
have been based on one of two things—
either bad intelligence or intelligence
that was somehow skewed in order to
meet the desires of the policymakers.
If we don’t have good intelligence, we
can’t make good decisions.
A lot of attention has been paid to
the people who were testifying at that
hearing—as I mentioned, the heads of
the FBI and the CIA and the Directors
of National Intelligence, Defense Intel-
ligence, and the National Security
Agency. Yet those individuals were
speaking on behalf of thousands of
other people who are scattered around
the world, who often risk their lives to
gain the information they were sharing
with us that day. It was not Dan Coats’
opinion or Gina Haspel’s opinion or
Paul Nakasone’s opinion. They were
distilling and presenting to us the in-
telligence and the information that
had been developed by their good peo-
ple over the course of the past month,
week, years to inform us and to inform
the President of the best information
available so we can make the best deci-
sions.
After the hearing, what disturbed me
was the reaction of the President of the
United States. Instead of absorbing and
listening to this information, he dis-
missed it. He not only dismissed the in-
formation, but he dismissed the mes-
sengers and said they had to go back to
school or that they were being naive.
Now, I don’t want to be heard as having
said that the intelligence community
always gets it right. I know, in my hav-
ing sat through hearings on Afghani-
stan and Syria and on many of the
other difficult subjects we face, that
there are mistakes made and that Dan
Coats does not have a direct line to the
Almighty in terms of the facts. They
are not always right. Yet, if one is
going to dismiss their findings, it
should be based upon some additional
set of facts or information from some
source.
There were two things that bothered
me about the President’s reaction. One
was he essentially dismissed the facts
in a whole series of cases—of Iran and
ISIS. Those were two we talked about.
With regard to North Korea and Rus-
sia, basically, he said: I don’t believe
any of it. The problem with that is, it
undermines the confidence you have in
the decision-making authority at the
highest level if facts don’t matter. The
information that is supplied is not by
Dan Coats, not by Gina Haspel, not by
Paul Nakasone but is the view—the
distilled wisdom—of the thousands of
people whose job it is, whose profession
it is, to ferret out the truth.
At the beginning of the hearing, Dan
Coats gave the best synopsis I have
ever heard of the mission of the intel-
ligence Agencies, of the mission of our
intelligence community. It was very
simple—to seek the truth and to speak
the truth. That is exactly what they
did at that hearing. They sought the
truth through the auspices of these
very professional, very thorough Agen-
cies that are scattered throughout the
world. Then they spoke the truth by
telling us what they learned.
The second problem I have with the
President’s reaction is a little more
subtle, and this goes to the heart of the
relationship between the intelligence
community and policymakers. The sub-
tle message that was being sent was:
Don’t tell the boss things he doesn’t
want to hear. Don’t give it to us unvar-
nished. Style the information; sly the
information; amend the information in
order to meet what is perceived to be
what the boss wants to hear. Whether
the boss is this President, a past Presi-
dent, or a future President, that is dis-
astrous. The intelligence community
has to deal in facts and information,
not policy, but if the message is sent
down through the ranks of ‘‘don’t give
me an assessment that disagrees with
where I started,’’ that will start to hap-
pen.
Indeed, it is human nature. All of us
want to be in the good graces of the
boss. All of us want to give our superi-
ors information they want to get. I was
in law school over 50 years ago and had
a friend who had been a captain in
Vietnam. He told the story of being on
the ground in Vietnam. There was a
skirmish in which a half a dozen Viet
Cong were killed. He filed his report.
His report went to the division. At that
point, half a dozen became 15. It went
to headquarters where 15 became 50. It
then went to Washington where 50 be-
came 150. That is because Washington
wanted to see higher counts. That was
the perception that corrupted the proc-
ess, not because people were being cor-
rupt in the sense of being evil or of
wanting to do wrong but because they
were doing what is human nature,
which is ‘‘I want to please the person
above me in the chain of command.’’
If the President of the United States
is not so subtly telling the intelligence
community what he wants to hear,
that will inevitably affect the quality
of the product he receives, which, in-
deed, will also inevitably affect the
quality of decisions he makes.
Again, I am not saying the intel-
ligence community is always right. I
certainly believe the President or any
other policymaker, including Members
of Congress who receive this informa-
tion, need to review it critically—ask
questions, probe and prod—and try to
be sure the information is correct, but
to dismiss it out of hand in a tweet, it
seems to me, is dangerous. It is dan-
gerous because it undermines the Ex-
ecutive’s authority to make good deci-
sions based upon the facts, and it is
dangerous because it has the potential
for skewing the information itself in
the future. Either one of those things
is a danger to national security.
If the President has facts that are
different than those that are presented
by the intelligence community, he
should at least present them and say:
This isn’t consistent with what I
learned at ‘‘such and such’’ a con-
ference or what I am hearing from the
State Department or from what I am
hearing from Homeland Security. Yet
to simply say they are naive, that they
don’t know what they are doing, and
they should go back to school deni-
grates the work of thousands of loyal,
patriotic Americans who are doing
their level best to produce information
upon which good decisions can be
made.
I stand today not to say the intel-
ligence community always gets it right
but to say the intelligence community
should at least get an honest hearing
and that the information they present
is important to this country. It is im-
portant to the President, and it is im-
portant to the Congress. The day we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:17 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.040 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S791
January 31, 2019
start encouraging them to skew the in-
formation is the day the national secu-
rity of this country is at risk.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 65
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to express my oppo-
sition to the amendment before the
Senate right now with respect to the
disposition of American forces in
Syria.
First, for my colleagues, let me stip-
ulate that President Trump’s Syria
policy has been an absolute mess. It
has been a train wreck. It has been a
dumpster fire on a daily basis. That is
something Republicans and Democrats
can agree on, and I assume that is the
reason we are having this debate right
now.
There is bipartisan consternation
over a policy in Syria that seems to
change daily. It often changes based
upon who the last person was to walk
into the Oval Office or catch the Presi-
dent’s ear.
The current policy seems to be that
the President is intent on pulling out
the 2,000 or so troops that are there at
the request of the leader of Turkey. He
would love to see the United States
pull out so that he could move his
troops in and overrun the Kurdish
forces, which have been our partners
for several years in trying to root out
ISIS and extremist groups from Syria.
Let me also stipulate that I was one
who did not support sending American
troops into Syria in the first place. I
have never believed that there is a
military solution, led by the United
States, to the host of problems that
ravage that country. But once you
have made that commitment, if you
are going to undo it, you have to do it
in some orderly fashion. To simply de-
cide on a moment’s notice, without any
discussion with our allies or partners,
that we are moving troops out is the
wrong way to undo a commitment that
I would argue was wrong in the first
place.
You have to have a plan in place for
the security of those you are leaving
behind—both the Kurdish forces that
you have pushed to bring the fight to
ISIS, as well as all of the civilians who
could be caught in the crossfire be-
tween an advancing Turkish force and
a defensively oriented Kurdish force.
This is not why I am on the floor
today—to try to, once again, rehash all
of the ways that Trump’s policy in
Syria has gone wrong. I want to talk
about why this amendment is not the
right way for us to proceed as a means
of correcting Trump’s backward poli-
cies and how it could, frankly, get us
more deeply mired into a series of con-
flicts in the Middle East, which are not
supported—nor will they be sup-
ported—by the American people.
First, we should be debating an au-
thorization of military force for Amer-
ican forces in Syria, not an amendment
that restricts an illegal use of military
force.
The President does not have congres-
sional authorization to use U.S. troops
to fight ISIS in Syria or anywhere else.
He claims he does because he has taken
the 2001 AUMF and suggested that be-
cause some elements of al-Qaida even-
tually became elements of ISIS, that
authorization continues. There is no
one who voted then for that authoriza-
tion some 17 years ago who thought
that it would now be used as a means
to fight a very different terrorist orga-
nization.
We should be having a debate about
renewing America’s authorization of
military force so that it is updated for
the enemies we are actually fighting,
instead of conceding that the President
has what is now, potentially, unlimited
ability to fight anyone, anywhere
around the world, who has any kind of
affiliation to a terrorist group named
17 years ago. We are not doing that. In-
stead, through this amendment, in
some way, shape, or form, we are rati-
fying the President’s extra-constitu-
tional use of military force overseas,
green-lighting the continued end-
around on congressional authorization
that this President and many other
Presidents would like to continue.
Let me also concede that this perver-
sion of the 2001 AUMF was not invented
by President Trump. It was invented
by President Obama. I opposed it then,
as I oppose it now.
Second, the language of this bill sug-
gests that our mission inside Syria is
not just to fight ISIS. The language of
this bill suggests that our troops are in
Syria to fight Iran as well. Over and
over again, this amendment is peppered
with references to the rationale for our
existence in Syria being not just to
fight ISIS but also to counter Iranian
influence.
In fact, the amendment lists a series
of conditions that we believe need to be
filled before troops are to be with-
drawn. Among those conditions is a
strategy to ‘‘stop Iran from dominating
the region.’’ That is an interesting de-
bate for us to have: What should be the
role of the United States to stop Iran
from dominating the region?
I agree with my Republican col-
leagues that it is not in the security
interests of the United States, nor our
allies, for Iran to continue to gain a
bigger foothold in the region, but there
is absolutely no congressional author-
ization for U.S. forces to be in Syria to
counter Iran or to fight Iran or to try
to be a bulwark against Iranian aggres-
sion. No matter what kind of hoops you
jump through to try to contort the 2001
AUMF to counter ISIS, you cannot get
it to cover Iran.
This resolution—I don’t know that it
suggests, but it essentially admits—it
asserts—that our troops are inside
Syria today not just to fight ISIS but
to stop Iran from gaining a bigger foot-
hold there and, in fact, makes a condi-
tion of our troops’ withdrawal be a
strategy to continue to press back
against the Iranians. There is no
AUMF for that.
Let me tell you my real worry. Put-
ting a bipartisan stamp of approval
today on an amendment that suggests
our troops are inside Syria, in part, to
counter Iran will ultimately empower
those in the administration who are
rooting for actual war with Iran. If
Democrats and Republicans say here,
today, that our mission inside Syria is
ultimately to fight Iran, then doesn’t
that potentially put some imprimatur
of congressional support for a bigger
conflagration with Iran that some in
the administration may be trying to
achieve?
Third, this amendment leaves the im-
pression that there is an American-led
military solution to all of the vexing
problems inside Syria. There is none.
There is none. If we really want to
have a debate about the future of
American policy in Syria, then we need
to come to the conclusion that, ulti-
mately, if we want to be a real player
in the long-term disposition of Syria
for the betterment of the Syrian peo-
ple, then American diplomats, Amer-
ican refugee programs, and American
economic development aid are going to
be much more dispositive than 2,000
American troops.
Let me give you an example. In
Northern Syria, where the Kurds exist
and where American troops are for the
time being, we have a problem. As I
outlined before, the problem is a rel-
atively simple one. We have pushed the
Kurds to become more and more influ-
ential in the military and governance
matters of that region. That was im-
portant for us because the Kurds were
the most likely fighting force to be
able to oust ISIS, but we knew ahead of
time that this was going to create a
problem with the Kurds, who see the
YPG—the Kurdish military—as a ter-
rorist group. We don’t agree with them,
but we knew ahead of time that the
Turks would not stand for the long-
term empowerment of the YPG in
those portions of Syria.
We have now reached the point at
which the rubber hits the road—at
which Erdogan has said: We are not
going to stand for that. We are going to
bring our troops in, creating a poten-
tial flashpoint there.
There is a solution here, and Erdogan
outlined it in an op-ed he wrote for a
major American newspaper. He said:
Well, listen, we understand the Kurds
are going to have to be influential, but
it has to be Kurds we support, not
Kurds we believe to be affiliated with
terrorist groups. That is a really tricky
needle to thread, and I am not sure
that it ever can be threaded. But the
way you do that is, frankly, not with
tanks or with American marines but
with diplomats and with experienced
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:17 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.041 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S792 January 31, 2019
foreign policy hands—people who know
how to work out a complicated polit-
ical arrangement in which the Kurds
continue to be able to run that region
but the Turks decide to hold back and
not press forward militarily. That is a
diplomatic and political quandary that
cannot be solved by the American mili-
tary.
This amendment seems to suggest
that we can solve all of our problems—
or many of our problems—if we just
keep 2,000 troops there.
Fourth, the back end of this amend-
ment lays out a series of criteria that
have to be fulfilled before the troops
can be removed. I mentioned one of
them—that there has to be a strategy
to combat Iranian influence. The final
of these criteria is that ISIS has to
have been substantially defeated in the
region and a certification has to be
made to that effect.
Well, let me ask my colleagues this—
it is a legitimate question, not a rhe-
torical one. I don’t know the answer,
and maybe someone can provide it to
me. When was the last time this Con-
gress tied the Executive hands in that
way? When was the last time this Con-
gress actually laid out the conditions
by which the Executive cannot with-
draw troops from a region? That seems
to be a very curious exercise of our for-
eign policy oversight responsibility.
I am someone who has suggested for
a long time that we have largely abdi-
cated that responsibility. I would love
for us to be debating foreign policy and
exercising our oversight more often,
but the idea that we would, as a legis-
lative body, tell the President that he
cannot withdraw troops from a place
unless x, y, and z criteria are met
seems to be dangerous and restrictive
because there are all sorts of condi-
tions that you can imagine that aren’t
listed in this amendment by which a
President may feel it is in our best in-
terest to bring troops home.
The Constitution doesn’t vest in this
Congress the power to undeclare war.
It vests in us the power to declare war.
To me, I worry that by restricting the
aperture by which the President can
make an argument to bring troops
home, we ultimately will end up having
them be in harm’s way for longer than
is necessary.
Maybe this isn’t unprecedented.
Maybe there are other times where we
have done this, but it does seem to be
fairly unprecedented for the legislature
to tie the Executive’s hands and tell
him or her that he has to keep troops
in a place for a certain period of time.
I wanted to come down to the floor
and express my reservations about this
amendment. Again, I wish we were hav-
ing a debate on an AUMF. I wish this
weren’t the way in which we were exer-
cising our constitutional prerogative
on foreign policy. I am deeply wor-
ried—deeply worried—about language
in this amendment that empowers
those in the administration who are
jonesing for a fight with Iran. I do not
believe that however capable and brave
our troops are in Syria, they ulti-
mately are the answer. If we want to
have a debate on Syria policy, let’s
talk about all the other ways that we
need to engage in Syria in order to
bring stability to that place. I do worry
about how we tie this President’s hands
or any President’s hands when they
want to bring our troops home and get
them out of harm’s way.
Trump has completely botched policy
in Syria, but that shouldn’t go—even
Trump’s most ferocious opponents—
from endorsing endless wars. That
shouldn’t require Democrats to be
against everything that he is for. He is
pulling our troops out in a way that I
oppose, but I worry about the long-
term implications of this Congress ask-
ing for a fight in Syria that is unau-
thorized and then tying the President’s
hands when it comes to getting troops
out of harm’s way in places in far-off
lands.
I oppose the amendment and encour-
age my colleagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
LILLY LEDBETTER AND PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, I rise to
talk about the issues of fairness, of
equality, and of basic dignity.
In the greatest Nation on Earth and
the leader of the free world, women are
paid 80 cents for every dollar paid to
men—80 cents for every dollar. That
disparity is starker yet for women of
color. Black women are paid 61 cents
on the dollar. Latina women are paid
just 53 cents on the dollar. Alabama,
my home State, has the fourth biggest
gender wage gap of any State in the
country. That is just inexcusable.
Those cents add up to real money,
about $10,000 on average for every
woman working a full-time year-round
job. That is a total of about $900 mil-
lion lost each year for American
women—every single year, a total of
$900 million. That is real money, and
that is increasing.
This gap persists regardless of edu-
cation status and across different jobs,
opportunities, and industries. It per-
sists despite laudable efforts here in
Congress over the past 50 years to start
chipping away at this problem.
Most importantly, these lost wages
impact women’s ability to pay their
rent or mortgages, to save for their
children’s college tuition, or to pay off
existing debt. Think about this. This
disparity can have lifelong con-
sequences for the quality of life of
women and their families.
Fortunately, there are steps we can
take that have already had tremendous
support.
I want to bring this home a little bit
because we were looking at some sta-
tistics recently. If you factor in the
fact that women are making so much
less—a total of $900 million; think
about this—this is not just a matter of
discrimination. It is a matter of eco-
nomics. According to a 2015 Center for
American Progress report, 42 percent of
mothers were the sole or primary
breadwinners for their families in 2015,
bringing in at least—at least—half of
their family’s incomes. Black and
Latina mothers are more likely to be
the breadwinners than White mothers.
In fact, 70.7 percent of Black mothers
and 40.5 percent of Latina mothers
were the primary or sole breadwinners
in 2015, compared with 37.4 percent of
White mothers.
Not all of those women are going to
be the subject of pay discrimination.
We know that. But the fact is that
there is likely to be a huge percentage.
If there is $900 million, that is a pretty
big percentage. By equalizing the pay
for men and women—equal pay for
equal work, which we all talk about
but which in theory and in practice
just doesn’t happen—we can raise the
standard of living for families across
this country, and we can raise the
standard of living for families in a
State like Alabama, where it is des-
perately needed.
These disparities, as I said, can have
lifelong consequences for the quality of
life of women and their families. For-
tunately, there are steps that have al-
ready been taken.
Just yesterday, I was proud to join
my colleague Senator MURRAY and a
host of others—in fact, I think it is al-
most all Democrats in the Senate, all
Democrats in the House, and one Re-
publican in the House—to reintroduce
the Paycheck Fairness Act, a modest,
commonsense solution to the problem
of pay inequity which persists despite
the existence of Federal and State
equal pay laws.
Introduction of the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act also just so happened to fall
on the day after the 10th anniversary of
the signing of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair
Pay Act. The group who introduced
this bill yesterday was joined here in
Washington by Ms. Ledbetter herself.
Lilly Ledbetter, from Alabama, is a
great friend of mine and a native Ala-
bamian. She was born in Jacksonville,
AL, about an hour and a half hour from
where I grew up, just outside of Bir-
mingham, in Fairfield. She married her
husband Charles after graduating from
high school, and they had two children,
Vicky and Phillip.
After almost 20 years working at the
Goodyear Tire and Rubber plant in
Gadsden, AL, just as she was nearing
retirement, Ms. Ledbetter learned she
was making thousands of dollars a year
less than the men in her same position.
She decided to take some action. She
sued to try to get her backpay and to
try to end that discrimination. The
case went all the way to the U.S. Su-
preme Court.
Unfortunately, the Court found that
her claims were time-barred because
she hadn’t filed a lawsuit 180 days from
the day of her first paycheck, 20 years
earlier, even though she was totally
unaware of the discrimination that ex-
isted for that 20-year period.
Because of her fight—which, again,
she took all the way to the Supreme
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:43 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.043 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S793
January 31, 2019
Court of the United States—Congress
ultimately passed in 2009 the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which restarts
the 180-day clock every time a dis-
criminatory paycheck is issued.
Now, for the 12th time, Congress has
introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act,
which ensures robust protection
against sex-based pay discrimination.
This vital legislation has been intro-
duced in every single congressional ses-
sion since 1997. It is absolutely inexcus-
able that versions of this very com-
monsense bill have had to be intro-
duced 12 times and that it has yet to
become law.
The Paycheck Fairness Act would re-
quire employers to prove that dispari-
ties in pay are job-related and nec-
essary and not based on sex. It would
make it illegal to retaliate against
workers for discussing their wages.
It doesn’t require employers to make
wages public, unlike all of us who work
for the government. It doesn’t require
that. It doesn’t make them public, but
it does make it illegal to retaliate
against workers who simply discuss
how much money they are making.
It would amend the Equal Pay Act of
1963 so that wronged workers can par-
ticipate in class-action lawsuits chal-
lenging systemic—systemic—pay dis-
crimination. It would also prohibit em-
ployers from relying on salary history
in determining future pay so that pay
discrimination doesn’t follow women
from job to job. Finally, this legisla-
tion would help businesses to facilitate
equal pay practices.
Earlier this month, a historic num-
ber of women were sworn in to the
116th Congress—a historic number.
Women are increasingly the primary
breadwinner or the cobreadwinner in
their families. Statistics are showing
that every year those numbers in-
crease. They cannot afford to get
shortchanged.
The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of
2009 was an essential step forward in
the fight for equal pay. I am proud, as
we commemorate the 10th anniversary
of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, to
once again be a cosponsor of the Pay-
check Fairness Act, which will con-
tinue the fight started by my friend
Ms. Ledbetter more than 20 years ago
and provide employees and employers—
employees and employers—with new
tools to battle pay gaps and pay dis-
crimination.
Yesterday, Ms. Ledbetter came by to
visit the office, as she always does. She
comes by to see me. We were talking
about this. My wife Louise was there,
and we were having a discussion about
how she was doing and how the bill 10
years ago affected her and so many
others, and she made a really inter-
esting statement.
She said: You know, I really don’t
want to be here, Senator.
Actually, she called me Doug. That is
what she does, and she should.
She said: I don’t want to be here. I
shouldn’t have to be here. I shouldn’t
have to come up to the Congress of the
United States every year simply to ad-
vocate for equal pay for women who
are doing the same job as the men. I
would prefer to be home, back in Ala-
bama, playing with the family and the
grandkids. I don’t need to be here.
It really struck me: Why are we
doing this every year? What could be
the possible reason?
Then, this morning, I was doing a
media call with some folks back in
Alabama, and I was asked about this.
There was a recent editorial in one of
our media and in our newspapers. As is
it always with all of the comments on-
line, which these days I just refuse to
read because they get so crazy, there
were so many that talked about the
fact that this is just fake news—that
women really aren’t treated differently
and that their pay is not below. I
couldn’t believe it. Every statistic
shows that.
My response to that is, also, this: If
that is the case, then no one should be
afraid of this bill. If every business is
treating their women employees as fair
as their men, they shouldn’t worry
about this. They should encourage it,
because we know there will be some
out there that are not doing it.
So if this is fake news, all the better.
Let’s pass this bill. Let’s make sure we
have in law the opportunity for women
to get those equal wages.
I have a daughter who is getting into
the workforce after getting a Ph.D. She
deserves the same pay as the Ph.D.s
with similar experience wherever she
ends up in colleges or universities.
I have two granddaughters, Ever and
Ollie, whom I want to grow up in a
world where they don’t have to worry
about this, where they don’t have to
come to Congress in 30 years or 40
years—just like Ms. Lily Ledbetter has
to do each year—to advocate for
women and their rights, to make sure
their families are taken care of in the
same manner as their male counter-
parts’ families.
It is the least we can do for the
women in our country who work so
hard, who represent the backbone of
the American way with their families,
who raise their children, who work
hard and do all of those things we need
to be proud of. It is the least we can do
to simply say: The Congress of the
United States acknowledges you, we
appreciate you, and we want to make
sure you are treated fairly.
I would urge all of my colleagues—
particularly my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle—to get behind
this legislation, and let’s get this
passed this year so that we don’t have
to worry about it again.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
S. 130
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, this place
fancies itself the world’s greatest delib-
erative body, but we would be deceiv-
ing ourselves if we ignored the biggest
debate that has been happening in
America over the last 36 hours.
A publicly elected official—Governor
of one of the 50 States—has been de-
fending a practice that is morally re-
pugnant. The Governor of Virginia has
been defending a practice that is repug-
nant to civilized people across the en-
tire world.
Here is just one of the ugly nuggets
from Ralph Northam, the Governor of
Virginia: ‘‘If the mother is in labor . . .
the infant would be delivered, the in-
fant would be kept comfortable, the in-
fant would be resuscitated (if that’s
what the mother and the family de-
sired) and then a discussion would
ensue between the physician and the
mother.’’
Let’s be very clear about what we are
talking about. We are talking about
fourth-trimester abortion or what any-
one in the normal world calls infan-
ticide. That is what we are talking
about, and the Governor of Virginia
has been defending this all day yester-
day and again today, going out and try-
ing to equivocate and qualify and then
double down and again say he wants to
defend this practice, which is infan-
ticide.
Let’s be clear about what we are
talking about. We are talking about
killing a baby who has been born. We
are not talking some euphemism. We
are not talking about a clump of cells.
We are talking about a little baby girl
who has been born and is on a table in
a hospital or a medical facility, and
then a decision or a debate would be
had about whether you could kill that
little baby. We are talking about the
most vulnerable among us, and we have
a public official in America out there
again and again defending this prac-
tice. This is infanticide that we are
talking about.
This should be so far beyond any po-
litical consideration. We are talking
about a little baby—a baby with dig-
nity, an image bearer. We are talking
about a tiny life that has done nothing
wrong to warrant being left to die cold
and alone on a table.
Everyone in the Senate ought to be
able to say unequivocally that killing
that little baby is wrong. This doesn’t
take any political courage, and if you
can’t say that, if there is a Member in
this body who can’t say that, there
may be lots of work you can do in the
world, but you shouldn’t be here. You
should get the heck out of any calling
in public life where you pretend to care
about the most vulnerable among us.
There should be no politics here that
are right versus left or Republican
versus Democrat. This is the most
basic thing you could be talking about.
We are talking about a little baby born
alive, and we have a public official in
America defending the idea: Well, you
could have a debate about killing her.
That is why today I am starting a
dual-track legislative process to make
sure this body has a clear-eyed look at
the issue before us, has a clear-eyed
look at this atrocity, and to make sure
the 320 million men and women who
are actually our bosses—to be sure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:43 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.047 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S794 January 31, 2019
they have a clear-eyed look at what we
stand for. Do we stand with those lit-
tle, vulnerable babies in desperate need
of care and comfort and support, med-
ical treatment, food, or do we stand
with the comments of the Governor of
Virginia over the last 2 days?
Tonight, I am beginning what is
known as the rule XIV process. That is
an expedited procedure for floor consid-
eration of my legislation, the Born-
Alive Abortion Survivors Protection
Act.
In addition, I want to announce that
on Monday night, I am going to be sure
that every Senator has the opportunity
to come to the floor and say whom we
stand for and what we stand against.
So I want to announce that in addition
to the rule XIV process that I am going
to initiate in a moment, I also want
Senators to be aware that on Monday
evening, I am going to be asking unani-
mous consent for Senators to come to
the floor and pass the Born-Alive Abor-
tion Survivors Protection Act legisla-
tion. I am going to ask all 100 Senators
to come to the floor and be against in-
fanticide. This shouldn’t be com-
plicated.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 311
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I under-
stand there is a bill at the desk, and I
ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 311) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper de-
gree of care in the case of a child who sur-
vives an abortion or attempted abortion.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I now ask
for a second reading and in order to
place the bill on the calendar under the
provisions of rule XIV, I object to my
own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will be read for the second
time on the next legislative day.
Mr. SASSE. Thank you. I look for-
ward to the debate in this body on
Monday evening.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today I
made the decision to return to Illinois
because of the challenges faced by the
region’s residents due to the extreme
cold. As a result, I was necessarily ab-
sent from this afternoon’s cloture vote
on McConnell amendment No. 65 to the
Strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act of 2019 S. 1.
On vote No. 13, had I been present, I
would have voted nay on the motion to
invoke cloture.∑
f
HONORING PRIVATE FIRST CLASS
FLOYD K. LINDSTROM
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I wish
to pay tribute to the bravery and serv-
ice of PFC Floyd K. Lindstrom, a Colo-
rado Springs World War II veteran who
has earned our Nation’s highest mili-
tary decoration, the Medal of Honor. I
also want to recognize the significance
of February 3, 2019, which marks the
75th anniversary of his death. He was
killed in action at the battle of Anzio.
It is my pleasure to commend the ef-
forts of the VA Eastern Colorado
Health Care System and Colorado’s
veterans community, which worked to
bring a Medal of Honor for display at
the Lindstrom Colorado Springs Com-
munity-Based Outpatient Clinic.
Much has been said about the battle
that compelled Lindstrom to act above
and beyond the call of duty where he
earned his place in the Hall of Heroes.
According to the citation, Lindstrom
acted with ‘‘conspicuous gallantry and
intrepidity’’ in defeating a German
counterattack on a hill near Mignano,
Italy, November 11, 1943. When the
enemy counterattacked, Lindstrom
and his platoon were forced to fall back
to a defensive position. Unable to
eradicate the enemy nest from this po-
sition, Lindstrom fearlessly picked up
his heavy machine gun and ran up the
hillside to gain a new position, only 10
yards away from the enemy machine-
gun; yet again, Lindstrom was unable
to reach the gunners who were hiding
behind a large rock. Lindstrom charged
uphill once more facing a steady
stream of fire and killed both gunners
with his pistol. In this moment,
Lindstrom embodied the true spirit of
self-sacrifice.
Every day, men and women in uni-
form like Lindstrom heroically serve
on the front lines of our Nation’s de-
fense. I stand with Coloradans today to
honor his sacrifice and his memory.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MARILYN MADDOX
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Marilyn Maddox of Lewis and Clark
County. This week marks Marilyn’s
100th birthday. She is being honored
this week at the Montana State cap-
itol, not only for her birthday, but also
for 80 years of service with the Mon-
tana Federation of Republican Women.
Marilyn was born in Chicago on Jan-
uary 31, 1919, and grew up in Ohio. She
attended Ohio State University where
she performed as a professional dancer
and concert violinist. She joined the
National Federation of Republican
Women in 1939 and still has her origi-
nal membership card.
While in Ohio, she married Thomas
Maddox to whom she would be married
for 71 years. Tom, was a journalist with
the Associated Press, and they lived in
several Midwestern cities before Tom
received a transfer out West to Helena,
MT. They packed up their 1951 Plym-
outh station wagon with two young
daughters and two dogs and headed for
Montana. Like many folks who find
themselves in Montana, the Maddoxes
fell in love with Big Sky Country.
Marilyn is an avid outdoors woman
and loves hunting and fishing. She also
worked for the Montana Stockgrowers
Association for many years. Marilyn
has 2 daughters, 6 grandchildren, 14
great-grandchildren, 6 great-great-
grandchildren, and a Shihtzu named
Toby Wong.
I congratulate Marilyn on reaching
this milestone and thank her for her
many years of service to the people of
Montana and the Helena community.∑
f
RECOGNIZING CARROLL
BRADFORD, INC.
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, it is my
privilege to honor a Florida small busi-
ness that exemplifies what it means to
provide quality service and to give
back to the community when it mat-
ters the most. As chairman of the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship, each week I recognize a
small business that exemplifies the
value of hard work and the unique
American entrepreneurial spirit. This
week, it is my pleasure to recognize
Carroll Bradford, Inc., of Orlando, FL,
as the Senate Small Business of the
Week.
Carroll Bradford, Inc., is a full-serv-
ice construction and landscaping com-
pany that was founded in 2010 by Ste-
phen Barnett and Jon Menke, who were
both born and raised in central Florida.
Stephen and Jon are related by mar-
riage and were driven to follow in the
footsteps of their grandfathers, who
were both successful small business
owners in the 1940s. The company’s
name combines the names of each co-
founder’s grandfather: Stephen’s grand-
father, Carroll Barco, and Jon’s grand-
father, G.L. Bradford.
Carroll Bradford started in the Bald-
win Park community in Orlando and
now has expanded to Jacksonville.
Through hard work and dedication,
Stephen and Jon built a reputation of
providing quality construction and
landscaping services, being honest with
their customers, and giving back to the
community.
In its first 8 years, Carroll Bradford
has grown exponentially, leading the
company to create an app to respond to
the expanding base of customers. A tes-
tament to this growth is the company’s
partnership with the Orlando Magic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.048 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S795
January 31, 2019
basketball team, for which Carroll
Bradford proudly serves as the Magic’s
‘‘Official Builder.’’ As a result of its ex-
ceptional work, Carroll Bradford has
won numerous awards and accolades,
including an A+ rating from the Better
Business Bureau and recognition from
the Orlando Business Journal as a
‘‘Fast 50’’ business in 2017.
Carroll Bradford not only constructs
many of the buildings and homes that
form the Orlando and Jacksonville
communities, but it is also dedicated
to serving the people who live there.
Carroll Bradford supports its commu-
nity in a variety of ways, including
sponsoring the Coaches and Friends
Toy Drive Challenge golf tournament
each December, providing meals at
Orlando’s Ronald McDonald House, and
hosting an annual Arnold Palmer Hos-
pital trick-or-treat event. In March of
this year, Carroll Bradford will sponsor
the 2019 Arnie’s March Against Chil-
dren’s Cancer for the Arnold Palmer
Hospital for Children. Additionally, the
family at Carroll Bradford established
the CB Foundation, which provides fi-
nancial assistance to families in need.
Carroll Bradford, Inc., is an out-
standing example of what it means for
a small business to be more than just a
workplace for a community. The team
at Carroll Bradford combines a desire
to provide a useful service for Florid-
ians, while remaining committed to en-
hancing the community through serv-
ice. I would like to congratulate Ste-
phen, Jon, and all of the employees at
Carroll Bradford, Inc., on being named
the Senate Small Business of the Week.
I wish you the best of luck as you con-
tinue to grow your business and serve
your community.∑
f
VERMONT STATE OF THE UNION
ESSAY FINALISTS
∑ Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I ask
to have printed in the RECORD some of
the finalist essays written by Vermont
High School students as part of the
ninth annual State of the Union essay
contest conducted by my office.
The essays follow, in alphabetical
order according to the finalists’ names.
ISABELLE DESROCHES, BURR AND BURTON
ACADEMY, SENIOR, FINALIST
Civility in local politics is a topic of
increasing importance. As we attempt
to compromise on enormous national
issues such as immigration, health
care, and foreign policy, intense polar-
ization has created unbearable tension
between parties, and leads almost daily
to an absence of civil discourse. Even
more terrifying a sight in recent years
is the aggression and polarity that has
seeped into local elections through
overly-aggressive yard signs, tempes-
tuous town meetings, and neighbor-
hood altercations that craft rifts in our
communities. Hopefully, we can shift
these themes before courtesy in both
national and local politics dies, and my
generation is left sans civility in our
system.
We seem to be coming upon an age of
wildly strong convictions. Although
history classes dive into both pros and
cons of political circumstances (such
as the eras of Andrew Jackson or Lin-
coln), citizens and politicians are more
resistant than ever to accept the yin/
yang relationship that can be found in
any political situation. Anyone who
follows news is chronically frustrated
by this double standard. What we must
come to accept as a nation is that none
of the pressing issues that face us
today can be solved without a common
language of civility.
Rollo May, an existential psycholo-
gist, wrote about conviction in The
Courage to Create. ‘‘The relationship
between commitment and doubt is by
no means an antagonistic one. Com-
mitment is healthiest when it is not
without doubt, but in spite of doubt,’’
he wrote. May understands what we
must come to embrace and apply to our
politics: our convictions are strongest
when we can cast doubt upon our own
stance. A position without doubt
causes ignorance and paralyzation of
thought. It is courageous to doubt
yourself and keep an open mind. We
learn this in school, yet students are
often hard-pressed to find admirable
examples of these philosophies in our
lives and on the national stage. As pol-
itics become increasingly heated, we
can agree that it is more important
than ever to preserve integrity and tra-
ditional decorum in local elections as
well; movements like this must ini-
tiate in the strong roots of our soci-
ety—our tight-knit communities. Our
government must set a precedent of
positive influence and etiquette so that
progress and compromise can finally
begin. We must work to create a cli-
mate of dialogue instead of hostile de-
bate, both in communities and gradu-
ally on a national scale. Civility in pol-
itics is the foundation of the progress
we need to make in the coming years.
Actively working towards an attitude
in politics that allows us to work in a
bipartisan fashion, and incorporate
doubt in our convictions and empathy
in our approach is the only way we can
ensure the survival of our American
political system as it was intended.
LIVIA GREENBERG, STRATTON MOUNTAIN
SCHOOL, JUNIOR, FINALIST
The chest closes as the throat
tightens like a python strangling its
prey, the skin burning as it breaks out
in angry hives and rashes, forcing one
to claw at their body as a lack of oxy-
gen begins to shut down vital organs.
This is an allergic reaction—one that
can be experienced by the 15 million
Americans with food allergies, one of
whom sent to the hospital due to a re-
action every three minutes. The device
used to stop reactions, called an
EpiPen, can be made for thirty dollars;
however, the lifesaving instrument re-
tails for 600 dollars. The exorbitant
price of the EpiPen is a result of domi-
nation over the healthcare market,
with nothing stopping the company
from raising prices exponentially. Un-
fortunately, the EpiPen is not the only
example of why monopoly capitalism is
an immoral system that abuses the
consumers who are in need of medical
help. Multiple monolithic companies
are forcing those with medical needs to
pay prodigious amounts for necessities,
a practice that must be broken apart
with government intervention.
Shattering medical monopolies needs
to be one of the country’s priorities,
and the most feasible solution to do so
is to create a new act that would out-
law inflexible patents and bolster
smaller companies financially. The fed-
eral government currently uses three
anti-trust acts as a guideline for what
is a legal or illegal trust, but because
none of the acts address copyright, co-
lossal companies have avoided punish-
ment by patenting products or drugs in
a manner that makes an alternative
product illegal to sell. Even remotely
similar products have been banned by
the FDA and are not allowed to be sold.
By creating a law that prohibits ex-
ceedingly unalterable patents, cheaper
products would be allowed into the
healthcare market. With a government
loan, small-scale companies can de-
velop the alternative competition,
which would drive the companies that
currently have a monopoly into low-
ering their prices in order to sell their
product. In addition to reducing the
cost of medical necessities, the con-
sumers would have more freedom to
choose which product they trust in
case of an emergency and better access
to medication essential for life.
While both an ethical and economic
issue, trusts are a problem that can be
solved with strong government action
that keeps the wellbeing of the Amer-
ican citizens at the forefront of con-
cern. No one in the United States
should die because of an inability to af-
ford medication due to corporate greed.
Creating a new anti-trust act will
allow for more companies to develop
and sell vital medications at a more
accessible price, and will stop compa-
nies from nailing in innocent people’s
coffins.
SETH HARTE, BURLINGTON HIGH SCHOOL,
FRESHMAN, FINALIST
I’m the kid that dreams of writing
movies but is reluctant because I’ve
heard too many stories of writers that
fail. I love soccer and want to play in
the MLS but know how few make it. I
want to be an attorney someday but all
I hear is how expensive it is to go to
law school. All of this noise makes me
feel like there is no way to succeed.
But can’t I try? I am starting to be-
lieve that we close the door before we
can open it because defeat feels inevi-
table. Our society does not see the
beauty in failing so we instead we just
quit. I believe this is because of our
history, our grading systems, and so-
cial media.
We learn from an elementary school
age that we should never fail and this
philosophy is exhibited repeatedly
throughout our schooling and into
adulthood. We are taught that to mess
up is the worst thing we can do because
we have survived so long with a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.044 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S796 January 31, 2019
mindset that believes we will succeed.
Although believing in ourselves is good
it makes it hard for us to fail with dig-
nity and the knowing that messing up
is okay. According to MedBroadcast,
one of the main reasons for suicide is
because of failure. We just can not han-
dle failing, in fact, we cannot deal with
it so much that we end everything be-
cause of a setback.
Our grading system has made it so
only a specific type of learner will suc-
ceed. It has also taught us that the
word failure means that we have been
defeated or we did something wrong.
The reality is that if we tried we didn’t
fail. I believe that children should not
be punished for that. Psychology
Today said that one of the leading rea-
sons for stress for students was the
need to get A’s. I believe that Vermont
should lean toward proficiency-based
learning because it gets away from the
letter grade and lets kids learn at their
own pace.
Social media has taken the 21st-cen-
tury teens by a storm. According to a
2015 study, the Washington Post said
that teens consume nine hours a day of
social media. As a teenager myself, I
constantly see examples of people
showing off their success which is nice;
however, it makes a lot of people feel
bad about themselves. We should work
towards a goal of producing more posi-
tive content.
Our views of failure are false and
missed interpreted, however, if you can
treat failure as not what we’ve been
taught all our lives but treat it as a
way to improve as a human race and
individuals we will grow tremendously
know that one failure will not deter-
mine your life, getting straight A’s are
not needed to succeed and that there is
more behind what looks like that per-
fect photo. If I can go through life be-
lieving this I know I will become that
pro soccer player, that attorney or that
writer.
ALEXIS JABLONSKI, ST. JOHNSBURY ACADEMY,
SENIOR, FINALIST
Aldous Huxley, the author of ‘‘Brave
New World,’’ seems to have predicted
the Trumpian era of disillusion and
fear of immigrants. However, the basic
idea of welcoming immigrants is cen-
tral to our way of life; our diversity
makes us stronger. Unfortunately,
these values are being threatened. Cur-
rent immigration policy is shifting to-
ward exclusion of immigrant popu-
lations and has awakened an anti-im-
migrant sentiment that does not align
with the historical importance of im-
migration in the U.S. These concepts
are essential to America’s identity of
inclusivity, and they need to be pro-
tected as we have gone under such a
dramatic shift in power and ideals.
Trump continually spews blatant false-
hoods which undermine that character
of immigrant communities, in order to
secure his campaign promise of a wall.
It has become evident that our presi-
dent will continue to use hateful rhe-
torical devices toward immigrant pop-
ulations simply for his own benefit.
When in fact, his beliefs and promises
do not align with that of the American
people. As demonstrated in Huxley’s
novel, when we isolate those we deem
as the other, we are constricting our
growth as a nation.
A prime example of an attempt to de-
humanize and marginalize people
through the news is Trump’s com-
mentary on the Migrants passage
through Mexico. Trump has contin-
ually used fear tactics to dehumanize
outsiders and justify our hostility to-
ward them. The media typically pre-
sents the migrants through an over-
head image of a crowd, thus neglecting
their humanity. ‘‘The Caravan’’ is an
excuse to not view people as human.
According to our president, they are
rapists, drug dealers, killers, deceitful,
job stealing terrorists coming in by the
thousands. This information is simply
false, and aimed to incite fear among
Americans. Unfortunately today, our
President’s hateful rhetoric toward
outsiders has reframed our former
charitable nature toward immigrant
populations. The image of the migrant
people must be adjusted. We must look
at their faces to see their individual
humanity, rather than a single entity.
We must remember the pillars by
which our Nation was founded on,
those of which make it great. The fun-
damental notion of inviting immi-
grants into our communities and pro-
viding them with equal opportunities
to thrive is integral to our lifestyle. We
have promised ourselves as Nation to
provide stability to outsiders. We are
an entire nation based on blended cul-
tures and thoughts; these values are
what offer us strength.
During Donald Trump’s presidential
campaign Americans were fascinated
by his explosive personality. Unfortu-
nately, over the past two years, we
have learned that was not merely a
campaign tactic. His continual attacks
on American democracy have activated
catalysts for change. We will no longer
stand by, entranced and misinformed.
We must encourage activism and open
discussion to promote understanding,
we must evaluate our media consump-
tion and make educated decisions, and
we must actively seek the truth, in a
world that is overwhelming us with in-
flamed rhetoric. Only then, will we es-
cape this self-inflicted Brave New
World.
SIMON ROSENBAUM, VERMONT COMMONS
SCHOOL, FRESHMAN, FINALIST
When I was thirteen, I had twenty-
one cents thrown at me. For a moment,
I didn’t process what was happening. I
looked up to see one of my classmates
looking back at me, waiting to see how
I would react. I left the change on the
table, and left the lunchroom in the di-
rection of my next class. Instead, I
shut myself in a bathroom stall and
cried. My name is Simon Rosenbaum
and I’ve been Jewish my entire life. I
wear a yarmulke to school and often
can’t attend school events that are on
Friday nights because they interfere
with the sabbath. However, I haven’t
always practiced self-acceptance.
I began wearing a yarmulke halfway
through seventh grade. I remember
weeks of emotional preparation for the
snide remarks and lost friends that
were sure to come. Before the morning
bell had even rung, my kippah had al-
ready been grabbed and torn off. This
was the result of the few Jewish kids in
the school pretending that they
weren’t Jewish for fear of retribution
from their classmates. I’m sad to say
that they were right. Vermont is an ex-
tremely non-diverse state. According
to Pew Research Center, over 93% of
Vermonters are white, and approxi-
mately 94% of Vermonters are Chris-
tian or have majority Christian herit-
age. Approximately two percent of
Vermonters are Jewish, out of the
eight to eleven percent of Vermonters
that practice non-Christian faiths.
These non-diverse societies lead to
non-tolerant kids.
When I was in eighth grade, a
paraeducator made Mein Kampf re-
quired reading for students who she did
not believe were working hard enough.
I later learned that she only engaged in
this behavior around Jewish students.
To this day, she works in a Vermont
middle school after a school investiga-
tion ‘‘didn’t find any incriminating evi-
dence’’. Anti-Semitic incidents are far
more commonplace in schools today
then most educators like to admit. Ac-
cording to a study for The Washington
Post, in 2018 a study reported that 69%
of young Jews in America said that
they had ‘‘personally experienced dis-
crimination because of their faith’’.
This is up from 39% in 2013 from the
same study.
We can solve the issue of anti-Semi-
tism in our schools by a variety of ac-
tions. We should begin by instituting
diversity experts as consultants on
three month pilot periods in every
Vermont school to observe systematic
and ignorance based anti-semitism.
Those consultants would then make
recommendations in the changing of
diversity education to the school
board. If the board were to refuse the
recommendations by the consultant,
the consultant could then appeal to the
State Board of Education. Another
course of action we should be taking is
to create a zero-tolerance policy on
anti-Semitism both inside and outside
of schools. If kids are shown the right
examples while seeing the wrong ones
punished, then the precedent will be
set for an effective change in our diver-
sity education. No educated child or
adult would ever take joy from a thir-
teen year old crying in the bathroom.
ANDY SIKI, WINOOSKI HIGH SCHOOL, SENIOR,
FINALIST
CLIMATE CHANGE
‘‘It’s not enough to think it’s impor-
tant. We must make it urgent,’’ says
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a congress-
woman from New York.
Vermont is taking action on global
warming by reducing energy use and
investing in clean energy. It is accom-
plishing these goals by using low car-
bon transportation, protecting farms,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:43 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.011 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S797
January 31, 2019
making the community green and re-
silient, and recycling and composting.
By 2050 Vermont should be using 90% of
clean energy sources. I’m part of The
Youth Lobby For Climate Change. We
organize an annual rally at the State
House to show legislators that young
people care about their future. We talk
about what we’re doing right now, our
future as a state, and what will help
our communities.
In 2016 electricity made up 28% of
emission in our environment. Solar
power and other renewable energy
sources can reduce that number.
Vermont already started putting solar
panels in homes, businesses, and
schools to make a cleaner environ-
ment. Recently Elon Musk made a
Tesla battery to store the energy from
solar panels inside a house. The length
of Vermont winters might make that
storage difficult, but that’s a problem
we need to fix. By using solar energy,
Vermont could reach the goal of using
90% renewable energy sources by 2050.
Transportation makes up 28% of the
CO2 emissions. And Vermont can re-
duce this greenhouse gas emission. We
could have more bikes on the road,
even an electric assisted bike and a
bike path. Karl Kemnitzer works with
solar bikes, and he said: ‘‘Bikes and
solar are a good combination, and it’s
also been a lot of fun! An average solar
panel puts out around 16 watts per
square foot . . . the bike is so efficient.
I find that over a long term, I am using
about 200 watts on average as I ride
along.’’ Kemnitzer now needs to fit
enough solar panels on a bike. He’s
taking an engineering class and work-
ing on that problem.
Schools should start getting students
involved in their community. Schools
can help affect our environment by re-
cycling, reducing, and composting food
waste. At the Youth Climate Leaders
Academy students from Vermont and
New Hampshire came together to make
goals for their schools. We worked on
composting and made a goal to start
composting by January 2019. We would
start in our classrooms then move to
the cafeteria.
Everyone wants to take action to
change things but not everyone does.
At the Climate Leaders Academy I
learned that you have to start by mak-
ing small changes and that will lead to
big changes. If Vermonters fix the
small problem in their communities,
we can not only affect the whole state
but also influence other states around
us.
RAGULAN SIVAKUMAR, SOUTH BURLINGTON
HIGH SCHOOL, JUNIOR, FINALIST
THE WASTE LAND
In the year 2015, the United States
produced 262.4 million tons of waste,
130.63 million tons of which were
landfilled. That is equivalent to 2.23
lbs./day/American person of waste
landfilled. Landfilling at such a great
rate requires us to create new landfills,
taking away from scenic beauty while
also requiring us to use more natural
resources to create new products, cost-
ing us with long-term sustainability as
well. To address the United States’
waste problem, taxes must be put on
the producers of materials that become
waste, a governmental recycling pro-
gram must be created, and stricter re-
cycling laws must be imposed.
Firstly, a landfill tax should be im-
posed on producers to reduce the net
amount of waste. Landfills they take
up areas that could otherwise be used
and lose us many recyclable compo-
nents, making them a detriment eco-
nomically. Environmentally, landfills
enhance climate change by forcing de-
composition to occur anaerobically,
producing methane, which, according
to the EPA, is over 25 times as efficient
as carbon dioxide at trapping heat.
Since landfills hurt economically and
environmentally, a landfill tax should
be imposed by ton of waste. This tax
would cause producers to reduce their
landfill waste while also creating an
incentive for corporations to create
more sustainable and effective waste
management programs. As the United
Kingdom has shown, a landfill tax can
be incredibly effective, reducing the
number of landfills by 2/3 in 8 years.
With the passing years, the tax could
progressively increase, further
incentivizing the movement from
waste, reducing our waste problem all
the while.
Secondly, a governmental recycling
program should also be created to com-
plement the landfill tax. While the
waste-reducing reasons are obvious,
the other incentive is that recycling is
a massive industry. As China has
shown, recycling is a $200 billion indus-
try. Thus, the United States could cre-
ate its own governmental recycling
program via some of the revenue from
the landfill tax project, providing
countless jobs while also alleviating
our waste problems by making waste
management feasible. Moreover, the
recycling program would obtain the
base materials for industry through re-
cycling which could then be resold off,
making the entire ordeal economically
viable while also reducing our waste.
Lastly, stricter recycling laws must
be imposed. According to the EPA,
only 67% of paper is recycled, 26% of
glass, 34% of metals, and 9% of plas-
tics, making it is obvious that stricter
recycling laws are needed. Imposing a
fine for violators would ensure that re-
cycling guidelines are followed. Since
no one would want to incur a fine for
something so menial, stricter recycling
laws would enable the U.S. to tackle
the waste problem.
In summation, the U.S. has a waste
problem and must address the issue.
We cannot continue with 130.63 million
tons of landfilled waste each year. By
implementing the policies noted above,
our country would no longer be ‘‘the
waste land’’: it would be a model for
the rest of the world in waste manage-
ment.
FIONA THERESE, COMPASS SCHOOL,
SOPHOMORE, FINALIST
There is a picture of me on the wall,
near our kitchen table. It was taken
when I was five years old and entering
kindergarten. I was wearing a yellow
dress and wearing a big sun hat. The
girl standing next to me, Ashley, was
leaning on me and smiling. She was to
become my best friend.
School is supposed to be safe and fun.
It’s supposed to be where you learn
about new things and experiment with
new ideas. It’s supposed to prepare you
for challenges in the future. But today,
too many of us are scared of school be-
cause we don’t know what might hap-
pen while we are there. I was ten when
I heard about the shooting in Sandy
Hook. It was the first time I realized
that school might also be unsafe and
that someone might want to harm us.
The state of our country is one of con-
fusion for us, as students. We are ex-
pected to go to school trusting that
nothing can happen. But the truth is,
every day across the country there are
reports of gun violence. Even in my
small school, we have drills so that
we’ll know what to do if someone
comes to school to attack us.
In 2018, 113 people have been killed or
injured in a school shooting. On aver-
age, a shooting takes place at least
once every eight days that school is in
session. After a shooting takes place, I
have heard what people express their
sympathy through ‘thoughts and pray-
ers.’ The time for prayers is over. We
need change. Children should not fear
going to school. I should not have to
look around my classroom and plan a
possible escape. I should be able to go
to school with the same optimism that
I had when I was five.
The state of our union is one of fear
because our country has not passed
adequate gun control. How many peo-
ple need to speak out about their lost
children, family or friends before a
change happens?
Guns rights advocates argue that our
right to bear arms is protected in the
Constitution. I disagree. I believe that
the Constitution is a living document,
one that transcribes our aspirations
and hope. In a letter to James Madison
in 1789, Thomas Jefferson wrote: ‘‘No
society can make a perpetual constitu-
tion. The earth belongs always to the
living generation and not to the dead.’’
It is time to demand change. The state
of our union might be one of fear, but
I have also seen hope. The hope that I
see comes not from our legislature in
Washington, D.C., but in the protests
across the country. My generation is
on the move. We are working hard to
make our country and our schools safe
again. Although these are difficult
times, I have seen that even young peo-
ple can be powerful when they work to-
gether. The state of our union is in the
hands of those who protest, those who
march, those who write letters, and
those who demand change. So what is
the state of our union? It’s one where
fear must be met with strength and I’m
proud to be a member of a generation
who is rising up to meet the challenges
that lie ahead.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:43 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.012 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S798 January 31, 2019
HENRY WU, ESSEX HIGH SCHOOL, JUNIOR,
FINALIST
It is the year 2060. You and your
grandchildren are watching the charred
Earth slowly recede from view within
your space capsule. ‘‘What happened?’’
they ask. You breathe a deep sigh
fraught with regret and anger as you
reluctantly tell the story of the
Earth’s demise.‘‘It all began in the
1970s . . . .’’
When Exxon researchers learned that
the burning of fossil fuels influences
climate, they hid their findings from
the public. Other fossil fuel companies
were complicit in denying the exist-
ence of the greenhouse effect for dec-
ades. Today, the oil and coal industries
are still the main drivers of carbon
emissions, and $20 billion in annual
U.S. government subsidies perpetuates
our dependence on them.
‘‘Our hunger for oil and coal was in-
satiable. We ate and ate, but it
poisoned us. We loved our cars and our
plastics, but they killed us . . . .’’
The use of fossil fuels for transpor-
tation, electricity, and plastic produc-
tion releases carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere, trapping heat. Rising
global temperatures and more severe
and frequent natural disasters have al-
ready devastated human lives. In as
few as twelve years, rising sea levels
and droughts will lead to severe food
shortages, heightened political insta-
bility, and widespread poverty. A re-
cent Intergovernmental Panel on Cli-
mate Change report found that lim-
iting global temperature increase to
1.5°C, the target of the Paris Agree-
ment, will still cause $54 trillion in
damage.
‘‘Back in Vermont, I was a teenager
when I first noticed the unbearable
summer heat that made breathing dif-
ficult and forgot what a white Christ-
mas felt like. These were merely incon-
veniences, but that all change in a few
years. The searing wildfires and crip-
pling hurricanes that made headlines
in California and the Carolinas soon be-
came commonplace. Entire cities van-
ished from the map because they were
submerged underwater. Could we have
avoided this?’’
The efforts of individuals—taking
shorter showers, using public transit,
going vegetarian—can only do so much,
but it’s large companies that wield in-
fluence over our government and soci-
ety. A carbon tax that fines businesses
for pollution is an effective method of
keeping them in check. It’s a regenera-
tive economic measure that could fund
renewable energy research and imple-
mentation.
However, ordinary citizens still must
help avoid catastrophe. In the end, our
politicians and business leaders have a
say in our nation’s energy infrastruc-
ture, but it is our duty to convince
them to adopt necessary changes. We
must write to our members of Congress
and tell them to resist corporate
power. We must elect officials who will
champion a carbon tax, and we must
fulfill our end of the deal in giving up
fossil fuels for renewable energy
sources. So, what story will we tell our
grandchildren? A lament of despair and
regret, or a tale of teamwork and hope?
The decisions we make today will pro-
vide the answer. Breaking our fossil
fuel addiction and investing in renew-
ables are drastic yet necessary efforts.
The best time for action was forty
years ago, but the next best time is
now.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO HARDY MCCOLLUM
∑ Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize Judge Hardy McCol-
lum, probate judge and chairman of the
Tuscaloosa County Commission, who
retired earlier this month after 42
years of honorable service. Judge
McCollum will be long remembered for
his remarkable career and his dedica-
tion to the rule of law.
A native of Tuscaloosa, Hardy grew
up selling peanuts, popcorn, and pro-
grams at Denny Stadium, which is now
known as Bryant-Denny Stadium. Fol-
lowing graduation from Tuscaloosa
High School, Hardy married his high
school sweetheart, Juanita. They both
went on to earn their degrees from the
University of Alabama.
Following college, Hardy began
working in Tuscaloosa and serving as
an active member of the the U.S. Jun-
ior Chamber of Commerce, commonly
known as the Jaycees. He has always
told me that his first political experi-
ence was campaigning for me in the
1970 Alabama State Senate race.
In his first run for office in 1976,
Hardy was elected to the position of
probate judge. Following his initial
election, he was reelected to six more
6-year terms, serving in the esteemed
role from 1977 to 2019, a total of 42
years.
During his time as probate judge and
chairman of the Tuscaloosa County
Commission, Hardy also served as
president of the Association of County
Commissions of Alabama, the National
Association of Counties Transportation
Steering Committee, and the National
College of Probate Judges. Addition-
ally, he held the role of chairman of
the West Alabama Planning and Devel-
opment Council, the Governor’s Com-
mittee on Employment of the Handi-
capped, and the University of Alabama
Commerce and Business Administra-
tion Executive Society.
Outside of his professional career,
Hardy has volunteered over the years
with the Boys and Girls Club of Amer-
ica, Boy Scouts of America, and United
Way. He also served as chairman of the
Heart Association and the Alabama In-
stitute for Deaf and Blind Foundation.
Another noteworthy accomplishment
in Hardy’s career is that he has been
the longest serving probate judge in
the State of Alabama, and at the time
of his first election in 1976, he was the
youngest probate judge in the State.
His dedication and service have been
immensely valued in the State and will
be greatly missed.
It is with great pleasure that I join
Hardy’s family and friends in recog-
nizing his accomplishments. Our State
and community have been fortunate to
have a leader like Hardy McCollum,
and I wish Hardy the very best as he
transitions into the next chapter of his
life.∑
f
20TH ANNIVERSARY OF COLSTRIP,
MONTANA
∑ Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize an important anni-
versary in Montana’s history: the city
of Colstrip is celebrating its 20th anni-
versary this month.
For decades, Colstrip has been the
engine that powers Montana and the
Pacific Northwest, carrying on a long
and proud tradition of energy produc-
tion in our State and employing thou-
sands of Montanans.
Colstrip represents the very best of
our State. The hard-working folks here
are unafraid to get their hands dirty,
working each day to provide power—
and the economic opportunity that
comes with it—to people in Montana
and across the region.
In this transition, Colstrip has boldly
looked to the future, working to
strengthen the local economy so its
citizens’ children and grandchildren
can have the same opportunities af-
forded to the older generations. The
city motto, ‘‘Tomorrow’s Town,
Today,’’ befits a community working
once again to define itself for the dec-
ades to come.
I am proud of Colstrip and its citi-
zens, led by Mayor John Williams.
Their civic passion, their dedication to
each other, and their resilience in the
face of change will ensure this commu-
nity remains strong for years to come.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:05 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 790. An act to provide for a pay in-
crease in 2019 for certain civilian employees
of the Federal Government, and for other
purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 311. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper de-
gree of care in the case of a child who sur-
vives and abortion or attempted abortion.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.013 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S799
January 31, 2019
EC–176. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Three Rivers, Southeast Arkan-
sas Navigation Project; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–177. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘2012 and
2014 Regional Partnership Grants to Increase
the Well-Being of and to Improve the Perma-
nency Outcomes for Children Affected by
Substance Abuse: Fourth Annual Report to
Congress’’; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–178. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Services,
Office of General Counsel, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Supplement
Not Supplant Under Title 1, Part A of the El-
ementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965, as Amended by the Every Student Suc-
ceeds Act’’ received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 29, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–179. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–558, ‘‘Structured Settlements
and Automatic Renewal Protections Act of
2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–180. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–559, ‘‘Driver’s License Revoca-
tion Fairness Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–181. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–560, ‘‘Rear-Facing Car Seat
Safety Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–182. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–561, ‘‘Study of Long-Term
Care Facilities and Long-Term Care Services
Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–183. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–562, ‘‘Electronic Proof of
Motor Vehicle Insurance and Registration
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–184. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–566, ‘‘Healthy Students
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–185. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–567, ‘‘Lead Water Service Line
Replacement and Disclosure Amendment Act
of 2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–186. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–568, ‘‘Behavioral Health Par-
ity Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–187. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–569, ‘‘Revised Synthetics
Abatement and Full Enforcement Drug Con-
trol Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–188. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–570, ‘‘Mental Health Informa-
tion Disclosure Amendment Act of 2018’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–189. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–571, ‘‘Eviction with Dignity
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–190. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–572, ‘‘Program of All-Inclusive
Care for the Elderly Establishment Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–191. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–573, ‘‘Conversion Therapy for
Consumers Under a Conservatorship or
Guardianship Amendment Act of 2018’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–192. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–574, ‘‘Rent Charged Definition
Clarification Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–193. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–577, ‘‘Office of Public-Private
Partnerships Delegation of Authority
Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–194. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–578, ‘‘Campaign Finance Re-
form Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–195. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Judicial Conference of the United
States, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port entitled ‘‘Report of the Proceedings of
the Judicial Conference of the United
States’’ for the September 2018 session; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–196. A communication from the Chief of
the Office of Regulatory Affairs, Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Bump-Stock-Type Devices’’ (RIN1140–AA52)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 29, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. SASSE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. THUNE, Mr. COTTON, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. MORAN, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. INHOFE, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. PERDUE, and
Mr. CRAMER):
S. 285. A bill to require U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement to take into cus-
tody certain aliens who have been charged in
the United States with a crime that resulted
in the death or serious bodily injury of an-
other person, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Ms. STABENOW):
S. 286. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the cov-
erage of marriage and family therapist serv-
ices and mental health counselor services
under part B of the Medicare program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. SASSE, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. KING, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 287. A bill to amend the Trade Expan-
sion Act of 1962 to impose limitations on the
authority of the President to adjust imports
that are determined to threaten to impair
national security, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 288. A bill to amend the Indian Civil
Rights Act of 1968 to extend the jurisdiction
of tribal courts to cover crimes involving
sexual violence, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, and Mrs. HYDE-SMITH):
S. 289. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to support rural resi-
dency training funding that is equitable for
all States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 290. A bill to protect Native children and
promote public safety in Indian country; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. BLUNT, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 291. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to carry
out a housing choice voucher mobility dem-
onstration to encourage families receiving
the voucher assistance to move to lower-pov-
erty areas and expand access to opportunity
areas; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. WYDEN,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. ROSEN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. KING, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. COONS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. REED, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. HIRONO, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. WAR-
REN, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. JONES, and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 292. A bill to limit the separation of
families at or near ports of entry; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASSIDY:
S. 293. A bill to enhance border security to
reduce drug trafficking and related money
laundering; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 294. A bill to establish a business incuba-
tors program within the Department of the
Interior to promote economic development
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.016 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S800 January 31, 2019
in Indian reservation communities; to the
Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 295. A bill to establish the Rural Export
Center, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 296. A bill to amend XVIII of the Social
Security Act to ensure more timely access to
home health services for Medicare bene-
ficiaries under the Medicare program; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LEE:
S. 297. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to modify the amount in con-
troversy requirement and remove the com-
plete diversity requirement; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 298. A bill to establish the Springfield
Race Riot National Historic Monument in
the State of Illinois, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 299. A bill to amend title VII of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to reauthorize pro-
grams that support interprofessional geri-
atric education and training to develop a
geriatric-capable workforce, improving
health outcomes for a growing and diverse
aging American population and their fami-
lies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH):
S. 300. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to carry out a program relating to
physical security and cybersecurity for pipe-
lines and liquefied natural gas facilities; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. PORTMAN:
S. 301. A bill to enforce work authorization
requirements for immigrants; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. BENNET,
Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. ERNST, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. GRAHAM, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. KING,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TESTER, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, and Mr. ALEXANDER):
S. 302. A bill to permanently reauthorize
the Land and Water Conservation Fund; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
COLLINS, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 303. A bill to reform the GEAR UP pro-
gram; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. MANCHIN, and Ms. HAR-
RIS):
S. 304. A bill to reauthorize section 340H of
the Public Health Service Act to continue to
encourage the expansion, maintenance, and
the establishment of approved graduate med-
ical residency programs at qualified teaching
health centers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. UDALL, and Mr. MORAN):
S. 305. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to recognize Indian tribal
governments for purposes of determining
under the adoption credit whether a child
has special needs; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. KING, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 306. A bill to promote merger enforce-
ment and protect competition through ad-
justing premerger filing fees, increasing
antitrust enforcement resources, and im-
proving the information provided to anti-
trust enforcers; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. 307. A bill to amend the Clayton Act to
modify the standard for an unlawful acquisi-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Ms. HARRIS):
S. 308. A bill to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to convey certain Federal lands in
San Bernardino County, California, to the
San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation
District, and to accept in return certain non-
Federal lands, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SANDERS:
S. 309. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reinstate estate and gen-
eration-skipping taxes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. CARPER,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. COONS, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. 310. A bill to amend the Neotropical Mi-
gratory Bird Conservation Act to reauthor-
ize the Act; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
By Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. BLUNT,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BURR,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. COT-
TON, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GRAHAM,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
MCCONNELL, Mr. MORAN, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. WICKER,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 311. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper de-
gree of care in the case of a child who sur-
vives and abortion or attempted abortion;
read the first time.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. BROWN, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 312. A bill to prevent a nuclear arms
race resulting from weakened international
restrictions on the proliferation of
intermediate- and shorter-range missiles,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. KING,
and Mr. COONS):
S. 313. A bill to amend the American His-
tory and Civics Education program under the
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 to require inclusion of programs that
educate students about the history and prin-
ciples of the Constitution of the United
States, including the Bill of Rights; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WARNER:
S. 314. A bill to improve the processing and
oversight by the Federal Government of se-
curity clearances and background investiga-
tions and for other purposes; to the Select
Committee on Intelligence.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 315. A bill to authorize cyber hunt and
incident response teams at the Department
of Homeland Security, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, and Mr. CRUZ):
S. Res. 35. A resolution supporting demo-
cratic principles and standards in Bolivia
and throughout Latin America; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. CORNYN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr.
MARKEY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
TOOMEY, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 36. A resolution supporting the ob-
servation of National Trafficking and Mod-
ern Slavery Prevention Month during the pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2019, and ending
on February 1, 2019, to raise awareness of,
and opposition to, human trafficking and
modern slavery; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BENNET, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. MORAN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
THUNE, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. SINEMA,
Ms. STABENOW, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
SULLIVAN, and Mr. PETERS):
S. Res. 37. A resolution designating the
week beginning February 3, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Tribal Colleges and Universities
Week’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. CORNYN,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
KING, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
STABENOW, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. COONS, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. Res. 38. A resolution designating the
week of February 4 through 8, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional School Counseling Week’’; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. COONS, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. ENZI, Ms. ERNST,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. JONES, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LANKFORD,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
PAUL, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. SCHUMER,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:30 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\S31JA9.REC S31JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S801
January 31, 2019
Ms. SMITH, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Mr. WICKER,
and Ms. STABENOW):
S. Res. 39. A resolution recognizing the
100th anniversary of the American Farm Bu-
reau Federation and celebrating the long his-
tory of the American Farm Bureau Federa-
tion representing the farmers of the United
States; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 29
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT), the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS), the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS) and the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. BENNET) were added as
cosponsors of S. 29, a bill to establish
the Office of Critical Technologies and
Security, and for other purposes.
S. 80
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 80, a bill to repeal the annual fee on
health insurance providers enacted by
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.
S. 104
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. THUNE), the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. YOUNG), the Senator from
Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER) and the Sen-
ator from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 104, a bill to
amend title 31, United States Code, to
provide for automatic continuing reso-
lutions.
S. 105
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 105, a bill to amend title
X of the Public Health Service Act to
prohibit family planning grants from
being awarded to any entity that per-
forms abortions, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 130
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
130, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 131
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
131, a bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to prohibit Federal
Medicaid funding for the administra-
tive costs of providing health benefits
to individuals who are unauthorized
immigrants.
S. 135
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 135, a bill to prioritize the
allocation of H–2B visas for States with
low unemployment rates.
S. 153
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 153, a bill to promote veteran in-
volvement in STEM education, com-
puter science, and scientific research,
and for other purposes.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 162, a bill to
provide back pay to low-wage con-
tractor employees, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 169
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 169, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide an exemption from gross income
for civil damages as recompense for
trafficking in persons.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 172, a
bill to delay the reimposition of the an-
nual fee on health insurance providers
until after 2021.
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 177, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small
Business Act to expand the availability
of employee stock ownership plans in S
corporations, and for other purposes.
S. 190
At the request of Mr. LEE, the names
of the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
TOOMEY) and the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) were added as cosponsors
of S. 190, a bill to amend the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961 to prohibit as-
sistance to nonprofits, foreign non-
governmental organizations, and quasi-
autonomous nongovernmental organi-
zations that promote or perform abor-
tions.
S. 246
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 246, a bill to block the imple-
mentation of certain presidential ac-
tions that restrict individuals from
certain countries from entering the
United States.
S. 262
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. BENNET), the Sen-
ator from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND)
and the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS) were added as cosponsors of
S. 262, a bill to provide for a pay in-
crease in 2019 for certain civilian em-
ployees of the Federal Government,
and for other purposes.
S. 272
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 272, a
bill to establish the policy of the
United States regarding the no-first-
use of nuclear weapons.
S. 274
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Mississippi (Mr.
WICKER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
274, a bill to ensure that organizations
with religious or moral convictions are
allowed to continue to provide services
for children.
S. 280
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 280, a bill to reauthorize the
Historically Black Colleges and Uni-
versities Historic Preservation pro-
gram.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. INHOFE), the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Sen-
ator from North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS),
the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.
SASSE), the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) and the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) were added as co-
sponsors of S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolu-
tion proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States rel-
ative to balancing the budget.
S.J. RES. 4
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) were added as co-
sponsors of S.J. Res. 4, a joint resolu-
tion requiring the advice and consent
of the Senate or an Act of Congress to
suspend, terminate, or withdraw the
United States from the North Atlantic
Treaty and authorizing related litiga-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 20
At the request of Mr. LEE, the names
of the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
TOOMEY) and the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) were added as cosponsors
of S. Res. 20, a resolution expressing
the sense of the Senate that the Pro-
tecting Life in Global Health Assist-
ance policy should be permanently es-
tablished.
S. RES. 30
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 30, a resolution con-
demning efforts to undermine democ-
racy in Hungary and urging President
Trump to defend the universal human
rights and democratic norms under at-
tack by the Orban government.
AMENDMENT NO. 65
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. ISAKSON), the Senator from South
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.021 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S802 January 31, 2019
Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS), the Senator from
Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the Sen-
ator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) and
the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. ENZI)
were added as cosponsors of amend-
ment No. 65 proposed to S. 1, a bill to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 77
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 77 intended to be
proposed to S. 1, a bill to make im-
provements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. SASSE, Mrs.
FISCHER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. THUNE,
Mr. COTTON, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr.
INHOFE, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
PERDUE, and Mr. CRAMER):
S. 285. A bill to require U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement to take
into custody certain aliens who have
been charged in the United States with
a crime that resulted in the death or
serious bodily injury of another person,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
Ms. ERNST. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Today I rise on the 3-year anniver-
sary of the tragic death of a con-
stituent of mine, Sarah Root. On Janu-
ary 31, 2016, the same day as her college
graduation, Sarah was killed in nearby
Omaha, NE, by an illegal immigrant
named Edwin Mejia. He was drag rac-
ing with a blood alcohol level more
than three times the legal limit.
Despite requests by local law enforce-
ment, Immigration and Customs En-
forcement failed to detain Mejia be-
cause of a nonsensical policy that al-
lows ICE to use discretion when deter-
mining whether to detain an illegal im-
migrant. He posted bond, he was re-
leased, and 3 years later remains a fu-
gitive. It has been 3 years, and he is
still a fugitive, denying Sarah’s loved
ones any sense of closure or justice.
As a mom, I can’t fathom the grief
her family and friends continue to feel
after such a devastating loss. My own
daughter is approaching the age at
which Sarah was killed.
Just 21 years old, Sarah was bright,
she was gifted, she was full of life and
ready to take on the world. What a tal-
ented young lady.
She had just graduated from Bellevue
University with a 4.0 GPA. She was
dedicated to her community, and she
wanted to pursue a career in criminal
justice. Sarah had her whole future
ahead of her, but her opportunity to
make her mark on the world was taken
away from her. Her life was tragically
cut short. Yet even in death, Sarah
touched the lives of others. Sarah
saved six different individuals through
her organ donation.
Sadly, what happened to Sarah Root
is not an isolated incident.
We have seen this story play out
time and again in the 3 years since
Sarah’s killing—innocent lives taken
by criminals who entered the United
States illegally through a porous bor-
der. Crimes committed by those here
illegally are truly among the most
heartbreaking and senseless, and that
is because these crimes are completely
preventable, as the perpetrators should
not be in the United States in the first
place.
Although nothing can bring Sarah
back to her family, we can ensure that
ICE never makes this same mistake
again. That is why I rise today and,
again, join with my colleagues from
Iowa and Nebraska, including the Pre-
siding Officer; thank you again for
joining in this legislation. We are in-
troducing Sarah’s Law again in honor
of Sarah Root.
Sarah’s Law would require that ICE
take custody of a person who is in the
country illegally and who is charged
with a crime that seriously injures an-
other person. Sarah’s Law would also
require better victim notification and
amend the law to require that the Fed-
eral Government take custody of any-
one who enters the United States le-
gally but violated the terms of their
immigration status or had their visa
revoked and is later charged with a
crime that resulted in the death or
harm of another person.
President Trump implemented parts
of Sarah’s Law through an Executive
order in 2017, and I commend him for
that. It included directing the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security to
prioritize the removal of criminals who
are here illegally. The Executive order
also establishes an office to implement
notification requirements of Sarah’s
Law.
Despite provisions of Sarah’s Law
being put into place by President
Trump’s order, it is critical that the
Senate take up this legislation in order
to codify these enforcement priorities
so that any future administration can-
not remove these provisions. No family
should ever have to endure such a trag-
edy, especially one that could have
been prevented. The fact remains that
Sarah’s killer would not have been in
our country if it weren’t for our coun-
try’s broken immigration system.
Sarah’s Law is commonsense reform.
It recognizes the simple fact that all
criminals should be held accountable
for their actions. How much more com-
monsense can this be, folks? Hold
criminals accountable. We should not
allow them simply to slip back into the
shadows.
I recognize that the immigration de-
bate has become a political football.
We see that every day here in Wash-
ington, DC, but the security of our bor-
ders and enforcement of our immigra-
tion laws is not a game. We must honor
the lives of these innocent victims and
do better. We must work to stop future
crimes.
I look forward to continuing to work
with my colleagues to fulfill the prom-
ise I made to Sarah’s loving parents,
Michelle Root and Scott Root. I will do
everything I can to ensure that not one
more parent has to go through what
the Roots have faced—the loss of their
daughter and the promise of justice.
Madam President, I thank you for
joining me on this legislation. It means
a lot to this family and many others.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
WYDEN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. ROSEN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. KING, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. REED, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
STABENOW, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. JONES,
and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 292. A bill to limit the separation
of families at or near ports of entry; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to reintroduce legislation
that will finally put an end to the sepa-
ration of families at our southern bor-
der. I have believed from the outset
that the administration was wrong to
pursue a zero tolerance policy of fam-
ily separation, which is cruel and detri-
mental to children and parents alike.
The President claimed to end this
policy in June by executive order, but
we have learned that the practice of
separating families continues today. In
fact, the separations may have been
broader in scope than we previously
knew.
Last year, the American people were
rightly horrified when thousands of
children, including babies and toddlers,
were taken from their parents, to be
separated for weeks and months. Doz-
ens of these children spent days and
weeks in cages with nothing but thin
mats and aluminum blankets.
In response, people from all walks of
life—Republicans, Democrats, clergy,
the medical community, business lead-
ers, labor organizers—stood up and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.023 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S803
January 31, 2019
said, ‘‘enough is enough.’’ Average
Americans spoke out, marched, and
called their members of Congress
pleading for us to stand up to the
President and demand he reverse his
policy.
But we still may not know the full
scope of the harm that was caused. We
still do not know just how many fami-
lies were torn apart as a result of the
zero tolerance policy.
Litigation has identified over 2,700
children who were separated from their
parents by DHS, including nearly 100
children under the age of 5. However, in
January the Inspector General for
Health and Human Services found that
‘‘this number does not represent the
full scope of family separations.’’ In-
deed thousands—thousands—more chil-
dren may have been separated from
their parents in 2017, before the start of
the accounting period required by the
court.
We have also learned in recent weeks
that this crisis is not over. Families
are still being separated from one an-
other.
In June, the Trump administration
issued an executive order that ended
the ‘‘zero tolerance’’ family separation
policy. Despite that order, the practice
of family separation did not end.
Instead, the Inspector General for
Health and Human Services reported
that separations are ongoing with lit-
tle oversight or accountability. In fact,
at least 118 children were separated
from their parents between June 2018,
when the executive order was issued,
and early November.
These family separations could not
have happened if Republicans had
joined me and all Senate Democrats to
pass the Keep Families Together Act
last Congress. The Keep Families To-
gether Act prohibits Border Patrol
from separating children from their
parents or legal guardians, without
good cause.
Good cause is defined with a focus on
the best interest of the child, and can-
not be based on the parent’s migration
or crossing of the border. No separation
can be made without consulting a child
welfare specialist, and all presump-
tions are made in favor of family unity,
including unity of siblings.
The Keep Families Together Act in-
cludes vital oversight mechanisms that
will ensure that every child separated
under the zero tolerance policy is ac-
counted for. These include a require-
ment for DHS to publish transparent
guidance on separations, as well as an-
nual reporting requirements and a re-
quirement for a GAO report on crimi-
nal prosecution of asylum seekers.
These are basic protections for chil-
dren that should not be controversial.
Parents who try to protect their chil-
dren from violence and poverty abroad,
should not be punished by having those
children ripped from their arms. Chil-
dren should not be subjected to severe
trauma in the interest of deterring mi-
gration.
Instead, families should be kept to-
gether and given a fair chance to
present their cases for asylum. The
Keep Families Together Act will pro-
vide these fundamental necessities and
protect children from further harm. We
have a fresh start in a new Congress. It
is time to make these vital protections
a reality.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 296. A bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program; to the Committee
on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
to introduce legislation with my col-
league Senator CASEY that would reau-
thorize the only federally funded pro-
grams that are specifically designed to
develop a health provider workforce to
care for our older Americans. The Geri-
atrics Workforce Improvement Act
would reauthorize the Geriatrics Work-
force Enhancement Program and also
reinstate the Geriatrics Academic Ca-
reer Award Program.
The number of Americans aged 65 and
older is growing rapidly. In my State of
Maine, we are reaching an aging mile-
stone faster than are other States. By
2020, the number of Maine seniors is
projected to exceed the number of
Maine children. This is 15 years ahead
of the nationally projected date of 2035,
at which point the number of Ameri-
cans aged 65 and older will outnumber
those under the age of 18 for the first
time in our Nation’s history.
The United States is facing a critical
shortage of geriatric health profes-
sionals and direct service workers to
support our aging population. Today,
we need 20,000 geriatricians. However,
fewer than 7,300 of our Nation’s nearly
1 million physicians are board certified
as geriatricians. By 2030, we will need
30,000 geriatricians and even more geri-
atric health professionals and direct
service workers. To achieve this goal,
we will need to train 1,600 geriatric spe-
cialists per year over the next 12 years.
For the State of Maine, with an
aging population of more than a quar-
ter million Mainers over the age of 65
and with only 40 geriatricians, there is
an acute need to quickly train more
geriatric health professionals and di-
rect service workers to meet the grow-
ing demand. The University of New
England, College of Osteopathic Medi-
cine has joined the University of Maine
this year in proposing the ‘‘Aging
Maine Transformation Collaborative.’’
I was pleased to lend my support to
this collaboration earlier this year. If
funded, AgingME would become our
State’s first Geriatric Workforce En-
hancement Program and would bring
with it much needed assistance to com-
munities and families throughout our
State.
Nationwide, our bill would reauthor-
ize this workforce enhancement pro-
gram at $45 million per year over the
next 5 years and would reinstate the
Geriatrics Academic Career Award Pro-
gram at $6 million per year. Together,
these programs would train the current
workforce and family caregivers while
simultaneously developing a cadre of
emerging leaders in geriatric education
in a variety of disciplines. By doing
both, we will ensure that older Ameri-
cans will be cared for, for decades to
come, by a healthcare workforce that
will be specifically trained to meet
their unique and complex healthcare
challenges. This training of using the
most efficient and effective methods
for older adults will result in improved
care while reducing unnecessary costs.
I am pleased to say that our legisla-
tion is supported by the leading organi-
zations in gerontology and geriatrics,
including the Eldercare Workforce Al-
liance, the American Geriatrics Soci-
ety, the Alzheimer’s Impact Movement,
and the National Association of Geri-
atric Education Centers.
I ask unanimous consent that these
letters of support be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ELDERCARE WORKFORCE ALLIANCE,
Washington, DC, January 25, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chair, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. BOB CASEY,
Ranking Member, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS AND SEN-
ATOR BOB CASEY: On behalf of the Eldercare
Workforce Alliance (EWA), we are writing to
express our support of the Geriatrics Work-
force Improvement Act.
EWA is a coalition of 32 national con-
sumer, health care professional, direct-care
worker and family caregiver organizations.
The number of Americans over age 65 is ex-
pected to reach 70 million by 2030, rep-
resenting a 71% increase from today’s 41 mil-
lion older adults. Today’s health care work-
force is inadequate to meet the needs of
older Americans, many of whom have mul-
tiple chronic physical and mental health
conditions and cognitive impairments. With-
out a national commitment to expand train-
ing and educational opportunities, the work-
force will be even more constrained in its
ability to care for the elderly population as
the baby boom generation ages.
This bipartisan bill supports two critical
objectives. First, it would formally establish
funding for the Geriatrics Workforce En-
hancement Program (GWEP). Second, it
would reestablish the Geriatric Academic
Career Awards (GACAs), a previously funded
program for developing clinician-educators.
By supporting the GWEP and the GACAs, the
Geriatrics Workforce Improvement Act
would:
Foster education and engagement with
family caregivers by training providers who
can assess and address their care needs and
preferences.
Promote interdisciplinary team-based care
by transforming clinical training environ-
ments to integrate geriatrics and primary
care delivery systems.
Improve the quality of care delivered to
older adults by providing education to fami-
lies and caregivers on critical care chal-
lenges like Alzheimer’s disease and related
dementias.
Reach underserved and rural communities
by ensuring clinician-educators are prepared
to train the geriatrics workforce of today
and tomorrow.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.026 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S804 January 31, 2019
This investment protects our most vulner-
able elders and invests in our country’s fu-
ture. We ask that you continue your support
for the programs at this crucial time, and
thank you for your leadership on this issue.
Sincerely,
NANCY LUNDEBJERG, MPA,
EWA Co-Convener.
MICHELE J. SAUNDERS,
DMD, MS, MPH,
EWA Co-Convener.
AMERICAN GERIATRICS SOCIETY,
New York, NY, January 25, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chair, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate Washington, DC.
Hon. BOB CASEY,
Ranking Member, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS AND SEN-
ATOR BOB CASEY: The American Geriatrics
Society (AGS), an organization devoted to
improving the health, independence and
quality of life of older adults, supports the
Geriatrics Workforce Improvement Act. The
AGS is thankful for your support of the geri-
atrics workforce training programs and for
your efforts to improve care of older Ameri-
cans.
The Geriatrics Workforce Improvement
Act would authorize the Geriatrics Work-
force Enhancement Program (GWEP) and the
Geriatrics Academic Career Awards (GACAs)
program under Title VII of the Public Health
Service Act. The AGS believes that both pro-
grams must be authorized and funded if all
Americans are to have access to high-qual-
ity, person-centered care as we grow older.
The GWEP is currently the only federal
program designed to increase the number of
providers, in a variety of disciplines, with
the skills and training to care for older
adults. The GWEPs educate and engage the
broader frontline workforce including family
caregivers and focus on opportunities to im-
prove the quality of care delivered to older
adults, particularly in underserved and rural
areas. The GACA program is an essential
complement to the GWEP program. GACAs
ensure we can equip early career clinician
educators to become leaders in geriatrics
education and research.
The introduction of this important legisla-
tion follows announcements of related fund-
ing opportunities from the Health Resources
and Services Administration (HRSA) in No-
vember 2018. Authorization of the GWEPs
and GACAs as outlined in the Geriatrics
Workforce Improvement Act will help ensure
that HRSA receives the funding necessary to
carry these critically important workforce
training programs forward.
At a time when our nation is facing a se-
vere shortage of both geriatrics healthcare
providers and faculty with the expertise to
train these providers, the AGS believes the
number of educational and training opportu-
nities in geriatrics and gerontology should
be expanded, not reduced. Thank you for
your leadership on this issue.
Sincerely,
LAURIE JACOBS, MD,
AGSF,
President.
NANCY E. LUNDEBJERG,
MPA,
Chief Executive Offi-
cer.
ALZHEIMER’S IMPACT MOVEMENT,
Washington, DC, January 31, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Aging,
Washington, DC.
Hon. BOB CASEY,
Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Aging,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN COLLINS AND RANKING
MEMBER CASEY: On behalf of the Alzheimer’s
Association and the Alzheimer’s Impact
Movement (AIM), including our nationwide
networks of advocates, thank you for your
continued leadership on issues and legisla-
tion important to Americans living with Alz-
heimer’s and other dementias, and to their
caregivers. The Alzheimer’s Association and
AIM are pleased to support the Geriatrics
Workforce Improvement Act.
More than 5 million Americans are living
with Alzheimer’s and, without significant ac-
tion, nearly 14 million Americans will have
Alzheimer’s by 2050. Today, another person
develops the disease every 65 seconds; by
2050, someone in the United States will de-
velop the disease every 33 seconds. This ex-
plosive growth will cause Alzheimer’s costs
to increase from an estimated $277 billion in
2018 to $1.1 trillion in 2050 (in 2018 dollars).
These mounting costs threaten to bankrupt
families, businesses and our health care sys-
tem. Unfortunately, our work is only grow-
ing more urgent.
The Geriatrics Workforce Improvement
Act would develop a workforce capable of
providing complex, high-quality care that
improves health outcomes and reduces costs
for a diverse and growing aging population.
It would reauthorize the Geriatrics Work-
force Enhancement Program (GWEP), and
reinstate the Geriatrics Academic Career
Awards (GACAs) Program, a previously fund-
ed program for developing clinician-edu-
cators, two critical objectives to ensure com-
munities across the nation have access to
health professionals and other critical sup-
ports, improving care for all of us as we age.
By supporting the GWEP and GACAs the
Geriatrics Workforce Improvement Act
would, foster education and engagement
with family caregivers by training providers
who can assess and address care needs and
preferences, reach underserved and rural
communities by ensuring clinician-educators
are prepared to train the geriatrics work-
force of today and tomorrow, and improve
the quality of care delivered to older adults
by providing education to families and care-
givers on critical care challenges.
The Alzheimer’s Association and AIM
deeply appreciate your continued leadership
on behalf of all Americans living with Alz-
heimer’s and other dementias. We look for-
ward to continuing to work with you and
your colleagues to improve care and support
for individuals and families affected by Alz-
heimer’s disease and other dementias. If you
have any questions about this or any other
legislation, please contact Rachel Conant,
Senior Director of Federal Affairs.
Sincerely,
ROBERT EGGE,
Chief Public Policy Of-
ficer, Executive Vice
President, Govern-
ment Affairs, Alz-
heimer’s Association.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
GERIATRIC EDUCATION CENTERS,
January 25, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chair, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. BOB CASEY,
Ranking Member, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN COLLINS AND RANKING
MEMBER CASEY: On behalf of the HRSA Title
VII and Title VIII funded Geriatrics Work-
force Enhancement Programs (GWEPs)
across the country, thank you for your past
support of geriatric education and for intro-
ducing the Geriatrics Workforce Improve-
ment Act. The National Association for Geri-
atric Education (NAGE) is pleased to offer
our support for the Geriatrics Workforce Im-
provement Act, which will reauthorize the
GWEP and once again make the Geriatrics
Academic Career Award program (GACA) a
part of the effort to prepare the geriatrics
workforce for the aging of our population.
We and the growing numbers of older adults,
caregivers, and clinicians caring for elders
will urge Congress to move quickly to pass
your bill and provide the resources to ad-
dress our nation’s growing demand for geri-
atric care.
We appreciate the many discussions that
your staff facilitated with NAGE, as well as
with the Eldercare Workforce Alliance, the
American Geriatrics Society, and The Geron-
tological Society of America during the
process of developing this legislation. This
authorization and related funding are needed
for the development of a health care work-
force specifically trained to care for older
adults and to support their family care-
givers. Currently there are only 44 GWEP
sites in 29 states. The modest increase in the
authorization in your bill will have an im-
portant impact on training in geriatric care.
Likewise, the funds you have authorized for
the GACA program complement the GWEP,
and support faculty that will teach and lead
geriatrics programs. The bill will also assist
in ensuring that rural and underserved areas
will have geriatrics education programs.
NAGE is a non-profit membership organi-
zation representing GWEP sites, Centers on
Aging, and Geriatric Education Centers that
provide education and training to health pro-
fessionals in the areas of geriatrics and ger-
ontology. Our mission is to help America’s
healthcare workforce be better prepared to
render age-appropriate care to today’s older
Americans and those of tomorrow.
Thank you for your continued support for
geriatric education programs.
Sincerely,
CATHERINE CARRICO, PHD,
President NAGE/
NAGEC, Associate
Director, Wyoming
Geriatric Workforce
Enhancement Pro-
gram, Wyoming Cen-
ter on Aging, Clin-
ical Assistant Pro-
fessor, College of
Health Sciences,
University of Wyo-
ming.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I urge
all of my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan bill that would ensure geri-
atric education for our current work-
force while it would optimize resources
to bolster academic careers in geri-
atrics and help to attract the best and
the brightest into this field. Together,
these programs would develop exactly
the kind of highly qualified workforce
that we need to care for Americans as
our Nation grows older.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
JONES, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr.
MANCHIN, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 304. A bill to reauthorize section
340H of the Public Health Service Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.030 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S805
January 31, 2019
to continue to encourage the expan-
sion, maintenance, and the establish-
ment of approved graduate medical
residency programs at qualified teach-
ing health centers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. President, I rise today to intro-
duce legislation with my colleague
from Montana, Senator TESTER, to
fund Teaching Health Centers, a time-
tested model for success to train the
next generation of primary care doc-
tors in communities where they are
needed the most. I am pleased that
Senators CAPITO, JONES, BOOZMAN,
MANCHIN, and HARRIS have joined us as
cosponsors.
Over the next decade, the severe
shortage of primary care doctors could
reach crisis levels in a growing number
of rural and underserved communities
in Maine and across our Nation. Alarm-
ingly, these communities are often
those hardest hit by the opioid epi-
demic. By 2030, we will need an esti-
mated 120,000 physicians to meet the
growing demand for health care serv-
ices across the Country. In clinics and
health centers in Northern Maine, I
frequently hear stories about vacancies
forcing Mainers to travel many miles
simply to see a primary care doctor or
dentist.
For the past eight years, one pro-
gram, the Teaching Health Centers
Graduate Medical Education Program,
has worked to fill these gaps. This pro-
gram trains medical residents in com-
munity-based settings, including low-
income, underserved rural and urban
neighborhoods. For example, since its
inception in 2011, the Penobscot Com-
munity Health Care Center has trained
34 residents and served more than 15,000
dental patients in Bangor, Maine.
Nationwide, this program has pro-
duced real results. Since the program
began, 632 new primary care physicians
and dentists have graduated and en-
tered the workforce, and the number of
Americans served is in the millions.
Those who train at teaching health
centers are very likely to practice pri-
mary care and remain in underserved
or rural communities. Last Congress,
this Committee considered and suc-
cessfully passed my legislation to fund
teaching health centers for two years.
As a result, for the 2017–2018 academic
year, this program supported the train-
ing of 732 residents in 57 primary care
residency programs, across 24 states.
The legislation I have introduced
today would reauthorize the Teaching
Health Centers Graduate Medical Edu-
cation Program for five years and pro-
vide additional funding for expansion
and the creation of new programs. This
bill is widely supported by leading
community health and physician orga-
nizations, including the American As-
sociation of Teaching Health Centers,
National Association of Community
Health Centers, American Academy of
Family Physicians, American Associa-
tion of Colleges of Osteopathic Medi-
cine, and Council of Academic Family
Medicine.
In the face of nationwide physician
shortages, our legislation would pro-
vide a solution for communities today
and a path forward to train the physi-
cians of tomorrow. I urge all of my col-
leagues to join in support of this im-
portant legislation, the Training the
Next Generation of Primary Care Doc-
tors Act of 2019.
Mr. President, I ask to include these
letters into the RECORD.
Mr. PRESIDENT: With no objection
so ordered.
COUNCIL OF
ACADEMIC FAMILY MEDICINE,
January 28, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. SHELLEY CAPITO,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. DOUG JONES,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. JON TESTER,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS COLLINS, JONES, CAPITO,
AND TESTER: On behalf of the Council of Aca-
demic Family Medicine (CAFM), including
the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine,
Association of Departments of Family Medi-
cine, Association of Family Medicine Resi-
dency Directors, the North American Pri-
mary Care Research Group, we thank you for
introducing the Training the Next Genera-
tion of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2019.
This legislation is an important step to pro-
viding sustainable funding and growth for a
critical program that helps address the pri-
mary care physician shortage in our coun-
try. We appreciate your leadership on this
issue and give you our whole-hearted support
for the legislation.
To help sustain this important graduate
medical education program your legislation
provides suitable funding for current Teach-
ing Health Center Graduate Medical Edu-
cation (THCGME) programs to help address
the crisis-level shortage of primary care phy-
sicians. The funding level included in the bill
will allow for a per resident amount to be
paid for training that is on par with the
Health Resources and Services Administra-
tion (HRSA) funded study identifying a me-
dian cost of approximately $157,600 per train-
ee. It allows for programs to regain previous
losses of residency positions due to lower
funding levels and instability. We are par-
ticularly pleased that the legislation would
provide a five year reauthorization, giving
the program some much needed financial
stability.
In addition, we are gratified that the pro-
posed legislation supports and funds the cre-
ation of new programs and/or centers, with a
priority for those serving rural and medi-
cally underserved populations and areas.
Evidence shows that the THC program grad-
uates are more likely to practice in rural
and medically underserved communities.
Recognizing the importance of growing this
successful program to help address geo-
graphic maldistributions of physicians
across the country is significant.
The current authorization for this vital
program expires at the end of this fiscal
year. Without legislative action, the expira-
tion of this program would mean an exacer-
bation of the primary care physician short-
age, and a lessening of support for training
in underserved and rural areas. Your efforts
in support for this program since its incep-
tion have been key to keeping it alive. We
are grateful to all of you for your excep-
tional leadership in supporting and sus-
taining this vital program by introducing
this bill and helping to shepherd it toward
enactment.
The CAFM organizations and our members
are pleased to work with you to secure this
legislation’s enactment.
Sincerely,
BEAT STEINER, MD,
President, Society of
Teachers of Family
Medicine.
FRED MISER, MD,
President, Association
of Family Medicine,
Residency Directors.
JUDITH BELLE BROWN, PHD,
President, North
American Primary
Care Research
Group.
JOINT STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD
HEARING OF THE HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSION COMMITTEE ON ACCESS TO CARE:
HEALTH CENTERS AND PROVIDERS IN UNDER-
SERVED COMMUNITIES, JANUARY 29, 2018
On behalf of the more than 145,000 osteo-
pathic physicians and medical students we
represent, we applaud the committee’s lead-
ership and bipartisan effort to address the
shortage in our health care workforce. We
are thankful for the Chairman and Ranking
Member for introducing legislation that
would reauthorize the Teaching Health Cen-
ters Graduate Medical Education Program
(THCGME) In anticipation of the upcoming
hearing, Access to Care: Health Centers and
Providers in Underserved Communities, we
would like to highlight the need, and encour-
age the committee, to support funding for
growth in the reauthorization of the
THCGME program to help address the short-
age in our health care workforce.
The majority of THCGME programs are
currently accredited by the AOA or are du-
ally accredited (DO/MD) programs, sup-
porting nearly 800 osteopathic resident phy-
sicians through their training since the pro-
gram’s inception. Located in 27 states and
the District of Columbia, THCGME programs
train residents in much-needed primary care
fields that have the largest shortages nation-
ally, including family medicine, internal
medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics and gyne-
cology, psychiatry, geriatrics, and dentistry.
It is a vital source of training for primary
care residents to help expand access to care
in rural and underserved communities
throughout the country.
Osteopathic physicians (DOs) are fully-li-
censed to practice in all specialty areas of
medicine, with nearly 57% of active DOs in
primary care. Our training emphasizes a
whole-person approach to treatment and
care, where we partner with our patients to
help them get healthy and stay well. Osteo-
pathic medical education also has a long his-
tory of establishing educational programs
for medical students and residents that tar-
get the health care needs of rural and under-
served populations. Given this strong pres-
ence in primary care, osteopathic medicine
aligns naturally with the mission and goals
of the THCGME program that has proven
successful in helping address the existing
gaps in our nation’s primary care workforce.
Residents who train in THC programs are
far more likely to specialize in primary care
and remain in the communities in which
they have trained. Data shows that, when
compared to traditional postgraduate train-
ees, residents who train at THCs are more
likely to practice primary care (82% vs. 23%)
and remain in underserved (55% vs. 26%) or
rural (20% vs. 5%) communities. It is clear
that a well-designed THCGME program not
only plays a vital role in training our next
generation of primary care physicians, but
helps to bridge our nation’s physician short-
fall. The program also tackles the issue of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.028 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S806 January 31, 2019
physician maldistribution, and helps address
the need to attract and retain physicians in
rural areas and medically underserved com-
munities. In the 2016–2017 academic year,
nearly all residents received training in pri-
mary care settings and 83% of residents
trained in Medically Underserved Commu-
nities.
However, reauthorizing the THCGME pro-
gram at its current level funding, for the
next five years, would lead to a reduction of
approximately 70 residency slots from the
currently funded 737 residency positions.
We respectfully ask the committee to con-
sider legislation by Senators Susan Collins
(R–ME), Doug Jones (D–AL), Shelley Moore
Capito (R–WV), and John Tester (D–MT) the
‘‘Training the Next Generation of Primary
Care Doctors Act of 2019.’’ In addition to re-
authorizing the THCGME program for the
next five years, this bill also provides fund-
ing and a pathway for growth in the number
of residents trained in underserved rural and
urban communities. This represents a much
needed expansion to address the physician
shortages in our country.
We would also like to briefly highlight the
broader role osteopathic physicians have in
reducing our nation’s physician shortage.
Since 2010, the number of DOs has increased
by 54%. Today, more than 65% of all DOs are
under the age of 45, and if current enroll-
ment trends continue, DOs are projected to
represent more than 20% of practicing physi-
cians by 2030. Because of the whole-person
approach to patient care that is inherent in
osteopathic medicine, the increasing share of
DOs in the physician workforce, and the
number of DOs in primary care specialties,
we have a unique and important perspective
on the needs of our nation’s health care
workforce and would welcome the oppor-
tunity to contribute to your work on this
issue.
We appreciate your bipartisan effort to ad-
dress the shortage in our country’s health
care workforce, and we stand ready to assist
in your effort.
Sincerely,
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
OSTEOPATHIC FAMILY
PHYSICIANS.
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
OSTEOPATHIC INTERNISTS.
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
OSTEOPATHIC
OBSTETRICIANS AND
GYNECOLOGISTS.
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
OSTEOPATHIC
NEUROLOGISTS AND
PSYCHIATRISTS.
AMERICAN COLLEGE OF
OSTEOPATHIC
PEDIATRICIANS.
AMERICAN OSTEOPATHIC
ASSOCIATION.
AMERICAN ACADEMY OF
FAMILY PHYSICIANS,
January 28, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. DOUG JONES,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JON TESTER,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS COLLINS, JONES, CAPITO,
AND TESTER: On behalf of the American
Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP),
which represents 131,400 family physicians
and medical students across the country, I
write to support your legislation to reau-
thorize the Teaching Health Center Graduate
Medical Education (THCGME) program
Thank you for your commitment to this im-
portant, innovative program.
The AAFP is pleased to support the Train-
ing the Next Generation of Primary Care
Doctors Act because it updates the THCGME
program for five years, authorizes adequate
and sustainable funding for existing resi-
dency programs, and supports expansion into
rural and underserved communities In addi-
tion, the legislation maintains the program’s
strong transparency and accountability re-
quirements. The THCGME program directly
addresses three major physician workforce
challenges: the serious shortage of primary
care physicians, geographic maldistribution
of physician training, and the need to in-
crease health care access for medically-un-
derserved populations. Recognizing the im-
portance of supplying well-trained primary
care physicians into communities that need
them most, we look forward to working with
you to update and expand the THCGME pro-
gram early this year.
Again, we are pleased to support this im-
portant legislation. For more information,
please contact Sonya Clay, Government Re-
lations Representative.
Sincerely,
MICHAEL L. MUNGER, MD,
FAAFP Board Chair.
AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY
PHYSICIANS, AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION OF COLLEGES OF OSTEOPATHIC
MEDICINE, AMERICAN ASSOCIATION
OF TEACHING HEALTH CENTERS,
THE AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTE-
TRICIANS OF GYNECOLOGISTS,
AMERICAN OSTEOPATHIC ASSOCIA-
TION, COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC FAM-
ILY MEDICINE, NATIONAL ASSOCIA-
TION OF COMMUNITY HEALTH CEN-
TERS.
[January 29, 2019]
PHYSICIANS, MEDICAL EDUCATORS, COMMUNITY
HEALTH CENTERS STRONGLY SUPPORT
TRAINING THE NEXT GENERATION OF PRI-
MARY CARE DOCTORS ACT OF 2019
Our organizations applaud the introduc-
tion of the Training the Next Generation of
Primary Care Doctors Act of 2019 and urge
the Senate to quickly pass this important
legislation. We thank Senators Susan Collins
(R–ME), Doug Jones (D–AL), Shelley Moore
Capito (R–WV), Jon Tester (D–MT), and John
Boozman (R–AR) for their commitment to
ensuring that our nation has a strong and ro-
bust primary care workforce. Furthermore,
we thank Senate HELP Committee Chair-
man Lamar Alexander (R–TN) and Ranking
Member Patty Murray (D–WA) for their lead-
ership in introducing the Community and
Public Health Programs Extension Act,
which will extend for five years federal fund-
ing for the Teaching Health Center Graduate
Medical Education (THCGME) Program,
community health centers, the National
Health Service Corps, and two other federal
health programs. These programs are set to
expire at the end of the fiscal year.
The THCGME Program, established in 2010
and reauthorized in 2015 and 2018 has been, by
any measure, an overwhelming success. In
the 2017–2018 academic year, the program
supported the training of 732 residents in 57
primary care residency programs, across 24
states. Since 2011, the program has supported
the training of over 630 new primary care
physicians and dentists that have graduated
and entered the workforce. Importantly,
physicians trained in teaching health center
programs are more likely to practice in un-
derserved communities, increasing access to
care for the country’s most vulnerable pa-
tient populations.
The value of primary care is well docu-
mented. In fact, individuals who have a con-
tinuous relationship with a primary care
physician are more likely to be healthier and
use fewer health care resources. Research
shows that our nation faces a primary care
physician workforce shortage. The THCGME
Program has proven its ability to efficiently
increase the number of primary care physi-
cians trained.
This highly successful and impactful pro-
gram is set to expire on September 30, 2019
unless Congress takes action to reauthorize
and fund it. The legislation introduced today
not only reauthorizes the program, but also
provides enhanced funding and a pathway for
increasing the number of residents trained.
Most important, the legislation will con-
tinue to build the primary care physician
pipeline necessary to reduce costs, improve
patient care, and support underserved rural
and urban communities.
We are extremely pleased that members of
both parties are working together to extend
this vital program that brings health care to
medically underserved communities across
the nation. Our organizations strongly sup-
port Training the Next Generation of Pri-
mary Care Doctors Act of 2019 and call on
the House of Representatives and Senate to
ensure that the THCGME Program is reau-
thorized and appropriately financed by Sep-
tember 30.
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF
COLLEGES OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE,
January 28, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JOHN BOOZMAN,
U.S. Senate,
Washington,DC.
Hon. DOUG JONES,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JON TESTER,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS COLLINS, JONES, CAPITO,
TESTER, AND BOOZMAN: On behalf of the
American Association of Colleges of Osteo-
pathic Medicine (AACOM), thank you for
your unceasing bipartisan commitment and
leadership in championing the Health Re-
sources and Services Administration’s
Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical
Education (THCGME) Program by intro-
ducing the Training the Next Generation of
Primary Care Doctors Act of 2019. We offer
our strong support of this legislation.
AACOM represents the 35 accredited col-
leges of osteopathic medicine in the United
States. These colleges are accredited to de-
liver instruction at 55 teaching locations in
32 states. In the current academic year,
these colleges are educating more than 30,000
future physicians—25 percent of all U.S.
medical students. Six of the colleges are pub-
lic and 29 are private institutions. AACOM
was founded in 1898 to support and assist the
nation’s osteopathic medical schools, and to
serve as a unifying voice for osteopathic
medical education. The association leads and
advocates for the osteopathic medical edu-
cation community to improve the health of
the public.
With your introduction of the Training the
Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors
Act of 2019, the osteopathic medical edu-
cation community commends your bipar-
tisan efforts to support this critical program
that produces primary care physicians in
medically underserved communities across
our country by reauthorizing it for five years
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.047 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S807
January 31, 2019
and providing enhanced funding and a path-
way for growth in the number of residents
trained.
Established in 2010 and reauthorized in 2015
and 2018, the THCGME Program has been a
notable success. In the 2017–2018 academic
year, the program supported the training of
732 residents in 57 primary care residency
programs, across 24 states. Since 2011, the
program has supported the training of over
630 new primary care physicians and dentists
that have graduated and entered the work-
force. Importantly, physicians trained in
THC programs are more likely to practice in
underserved communities, increasing access
to care for the country’s most vulnerable pa-
tient populations.
As you know, the continuation of this pro-
gram is vital to addressing primary care
physician workforce shortages and deliv-
ering health care services to vulnerable pa-
tients in need. It has encouraged greater
connections and services between tradition-
ally underserved areas and the emerging
physician workforce by creating opportuni-
ties for medical students to carry out their
required training where their services are
most needed. The THCGME Program has
been highly effective in transitioning resi-
dents into medically underserved areas, with
more than 80 percent remaining in primary
care practice and over half remaining in
high-need communities.
On behalf of the nation’s osteopathic med-
ical schools and the students they train,
thank you for your steadfast leadership, and
I look forward to continuing our work to-
gether to support a health care system that
will enable osteopathic medical students and
future physicians to provide primary health
care to the patients they serve. We look for-
ward to working together on this important
legislation.
Respectfully,
STEPHEN C. SHANNON, DO, MPH,
President and CEO.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 308. A bill to direct the Secretary
of the Interior to convey certain Fed-
eral lands in San Bernardino County,
California, to the San Bernardino Val-
ley Water Conservation District, and to
accept in return certain non-Federal
lands, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
am pleased to reintroduce the ‘‘Santa
Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange
Act.’’ This legislation would help im-
plement a consensus-driven regional
land management plan by directing the
Bureau of Land Management to ex-
change land with the San Bernardino
Valley Water Conservation District in
San Bernardino, California.
Before I continue, I would like to
thank Senators LISA MURKOWSKI and
MARIA CANTWELL, as well as their
staffs, for their hard work to move this
bill forward last Congress. With their
assistance, this legislation passed out
of the Senate Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee in August 2018 and
was included in a bipartisan public
lands package.
I thank Senator MURKOWSKI for in-
troducing a bipartisan lands package
bill this Congress and including this
legislation in it. I look forward to
working once again with Senator MUR-
KOWSKI, as well as the newly designated
Ranking Member, Senator MANCHIN, to
maintain our momentum and pass this
bill as quickly as possible.
I also would like to express my grati-
tude to Representative PAUL COOK and
his staff for their continuing work and
collaboration on this legislation. Last-
ly, I welcome working with Represent-
ative COOK and Representative
AGUILAR who are cosponsoring com-
panion legislation in the House of Rep-
resentatives. Lastly, I thank Senator
HARRIS for cosponsoring this legisla-
tion.
This bill is an excellent example of
how smart, sustainable, land planning
can be accomplished through inter-
agency cooperation. Federal and State
agencies, private industry, and munici-
palities representing mining, flood con-
trol, water supply, wildlife conserva-
tion, and other interests all came to
the table to develop a land manage-
ment plan that accounts for the array
of land uses in this area.
The land exchange facilitated by this
bill is broadly supported, including by:
County of San Bernardino, City of Red-
lands, City of Highland, San
Bernardino Water Conservation Dis-
trict, San Bernardino Valley Municipal
Water District, East Valley Water Dis-
trict, Endangered Habitats League,
CEMEX Construction Materials Pa-
cific, Robertson’s Ready Mix, Inland
Action.
This diverse group of entities formed
the ‘‘Wash Committee’’ in 1993 to ad-
dress mining and land management in
the upper Santa Ana River wash area.
I applaud the Committee, along with
federal, state and local stakeholders,
for working together to develop a
strategy for comprehensive land man-
agement planning for the area. This
group has shown that through coopera-
tion, it is possible to both protect the
environment and support local business
and community interests.
The land exchange between the San
Bernardino Water Conservation Dis-
trict and the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment will consolidate open space for
conservation purposes and optimize the
efficiency of mining operations and
water conservation efforts.
The exchange will also set aside new
land for conservation purposes near
land already managed by BLM.
This bill will lead to increased habi-
tat protection, groundwater recharge,
and public access while allowing for
the continued use of land and mineral
resources.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues to pass the ‘‘Santa Ana
River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act’’
as soon as possible.
Thank you Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
By Mr. SANDERS:
S. 309. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reinstate es-
tate and generation-skipping taxes,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, all
across our country—in Vermont, in Il-
linois, in California—all across this
country, people are asking a very sim-
ple question. That question is, How
does it happen that in the midst of the
extraordinary wealth that exists in our
country—how does it happen that so
many people continue to hurt finan-
cially and struggle desperately to keep
their heads above water economically?
Today, despite unemployment being
relatively low, some 40 million Ameri-
cans continue to live in poverty. We
don’t talk about poverty very much
here in the Senate, but we have 40 mil-
lion Americans living in poverty. Many
of them are struggling to adequately
feed their kids. Many of them are
forced to go, despite working, to emer-
gency food shelters just to stay alive.
Despite the United States having a
GDP—gross domestic product—of more
than $20 trillion, we in this country
embarrassingly continue to have the
highest rate of childhood poverty of al-
most any major country on Earth. We
don’t talk about that either. Children
are obviously the future of America,
and we continue to have one of the
highest rates of childhood poverty of
any major country, and that includes
29 percent of African-American chil-
dren who live in poverty.
How does it happen that in a so-
called booming economy—and we hear
from President Trump every other day
about how the economy is booming—
the bottom 40 percent of our popu-
lation does not have $400 in cash in
order to address a financial emergency?
Think about that. The bottom 40 per-
cent—almost half of Americans—don’t
have $400 in their pocket, in the bank
to address a financial emergency.
Maybe the car breaks down, maybe the
kid gets sick, maybe one loses one’s
job, maybe one undergoes a divorce;
something happens, and 40 percent of
the American people don’t have $400 in
the bank to address that crisis.
In other words, today—and we saw
this in the recent government shut-
down; today in America, many, many
millions of families live paycheck to
paycheck in order to survive. That
should not be happening in the wealthi-
est country on Earth, and it is time we
begin to talk about that. It is not good
enough to talk about a so-called boom-
ing economy, forgetting about tens of
millions of families who are not seeing
that booming economy but, in fact, are
living under incredible financial stress.
How does it happen that, in the so-
called booming economy, tens of mil-
lions of American workers today are
working for wages that are so low they
cannot afford the escalating cost of
housing? Some of them are spending 40,
50 percent of their limited incomes on
housing. For many of these people,
there is no health insurance available;
the idea of a vacation for the family is
something not even to be thought
about; and the idea of being able to
send one’s kids to college is something
that is also not on the table. By the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.049 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S808 January 31, 2019
way, many of these individuals are
working two or three jobs, 50, 60, 70
hours a week, just to survive.
This, again, is the wealthiest country
in the history of the world. Yet 30 mil-
lion Americans today, as we speak,
have zero health insurance—no health
insurance at all; 41 million people are
underinsured—which means their
deductibles and their copayments are
so high that even though they have in-
surance, they still can’t afford to go to
the doctor, and one out of five Ameri-
cans today cannot afford the prescrip-
tion drugs their doctors prescribe.
In my view—a view I have held for a
very, very long time, and it is a view
shared by people not only in this coun-
try in wide numbers, but all over the
world—healthcare is a human right,
not a privilege. Whether you are rich
or whether you are poor, you have the
right to go to a doctor when you get
sick, and you have the right to know
that if you end up in a hospital, you
are not going to go bankrupt or suffer
from financial distress.
We are an aging population—no great
secret there. We are an aging popu-
lation. In this Congress, instead of
dealing with government shutdowns
precipitated by the President, we
should be talking about how we re-
spond to the reality of an aging popu-
lation. Yet what we don’t talk about is
that about half of older Americans—
half of older Americans, those 55 and
older—have no retirement savings and
no idea about how they will retire with
dignity.
Think about what that means. Some-
body is 60 years of age, they are coming
to the end of their work-life, and they
have no money—or virtually no
money—in the bank. Maybe all they
are going to get is Social Security.
They turn on the TV, and they hear
folks around here talking about cut-
ting Social Security. Talk about why
people in this country are angry and
why they are stressed out.
Here is the bottom line. We are the
wealthiest country on Earth. In fact,
we are the wealthiest country in the
history of the world, but despite that
wealth, a significant percentage of our
population—our children, our elderly
people, our working men and women—
struggle each and every day to keep
their heads above water economically.
Not only are they struggling, I think
the pain they are feeling has to do with
the worry they have about the future
for their kids because they know, as
many of us know, that unless we make
some bold changes in our economy, the
younger generation today will have a
lower standard of living than their par-
ents.
Imagine that—a so-called booming
economy, yet we are looking at a situa-
tion where the younger generation may
well have a lower standard of living
than their parents.
I want to also say a word about an-
other reality that currently exists.
While so many of our people are strug-
gling, while so many of our children
are living in poverty, while 20 percent
of folks on Social Security are trying
to live on less than $13,000 a year, there
is another pervasive reality in Amer-
ican society today; that is, the people
on top—the very wealthiest people in
this country—have never had it better,
and the gap between the very, very
rich—I am not just talking about the
rich; I am talking about the very, very
rich—is growing wider.
Here is the simple truth, a truth that
we virtually never talk about here in
the Senate, a truth that is not heard
much in the corporate media; that is,
the United States of America today has
the most unequal distribution of
wealth and income of almost any major
country on Earth, and that level of in-
equality is worse today than at any
time since the 1920s, the so-called Gild-
ed Age of American society.
Today, if you can believe it, the three
wealthiest people in this country—
three—own more wealth than the bot-
tom half of America, 160 million peo-
ple. Let me repeat that. The three
wealthiest people in this country own
more wealth than the bottom half of
America, 160 million people. Today, the
top one-tenth of 1 percent—not 1 per-
cent; one-tenth of 1 percent—own al-
most as much wealth as the bottom 90
percent. Today, and since the Wall
Street crash in 2008, about 46 percent of
all new income goes to the top 1 per-
cent. Roughly speaking, half of all new
income goes to the bottom 99 percent,
and half goes to the top 1 percent, and
our great task here in the U.S. Senate
is to keep the government open while
Trump tries to shut it down. Maybe,
just maybe, we should be talking about
those issues. Maybe, just maybe, we
should be talking about an economy
that works for all of us, not just the
people on top.
Today, the top 25 hedge fund man-
agers on Wall Street—25 hedge fund
managers—earn nearly double the in-
come of all 140,000 kindergarten teach-
ers in America.
What all of the psychologists tell us
is that the most important years of a
human being’s development are 0 to 4.
Those are the most impressionable
years in terms of how we develop intel-
lectually and emotionally, and our
childcare workers, our kindergarten
teachers play a very important role.
Does anybody think it makes sense
that you have 25 hedge fund managers
on Wall Street who, today, earn nearly
double what 140,000 of our kindergarten
teachers make? By the way, public
teachers in America are falling further
and further behind other occupations.
Having stated that reality—the fact
that the middle class is struggling and
the fact that the people on top are
doing phenomenally well—I think it is
fair to ask what the views are of the
Republican leadership here in the Sen-
ate—Republicans control the Senate—
and what our Republican President,
President Trump, is proposing to ad-
dress these massive levels of injustice
and inequality. Three people own more
wealth than the bottom half of Amer-
ica. What does the President and what
does Leader MCCONNELL have to say
about that? The sad truth is that the
Republican leadership today wants to
make an embarrassingly bad situation
even worse.
After passing a $1 trillion tax give-
away for the top 1 percent and large
corporations last year, Republican
leadership is coming back and saying:
Hey, we only gave 83 percent of the tax
benefits to the 1 percent. That is not
good enough. That is not good enough.
We have to do even better for our bil-
lionaires and corporate sponsors.
This time, the Republican leadership
and the President want a tax break of
hundreds of billions of dollars that
would go exclusively to the wealthiest
of the wealthy. I am not talking about
the wealthy; I am talking about the
wealthiest of the wealthy—the top one-
tenth of 1 percent, the wealthiest 1,700
families in America.
We have 127 million families in our
country—a population of some 320 mil-
lion people. As I have indicated, many
of these families are struggling. Many
of these families are hurting. Today,
many of these families are wondering
how they are going to pay their rent,
pay their mortgage, keep their lights
on. Yet the legislation to repeal the es-
tate tax that Senator MCCONNELL and
President Trump are proposing would
benefit less than the top one-tenth of 1
percent of them—99.9 percent would see
no tax reduction from the legislation.
Can anyone actually imagine bring-
ing forward a piece of legislation that
does not help the bottom 99.9 percent?
Can you imagine that? The middle
class are struggling. The gap between
the rich and the poor is growing wider.
There are 30 million people without
health insurance. Our infrastructure is
crumbling. And they come forward
with a piece of legislation that is de-
signed to protect and benefit the top
one-tenth of 1 percent. The legislation
would be of no benefit to 99.9 percent of
the people of this country.
I think it is clear that when the peo-
ple of this country look at Congress
and say ‘‘Those folks in Washington
are not representing me. They are rep-
resenting their wealthy campaign con-
tributors. They are representing the
billionaire class,’’ there can be no
clearer example of that reality than
this proposed legislation.
Once again, with all of the economic
problems, all of the inequality we face,
imagine legislation that comes forward
from the Republican leadership and the
President that benefits the top one-
tenth of 1 percent—the 1,700 wealthiest
families in this country.
It is no secret that our infrastruc-
ture—our roads and our bridges, water
systems, airports, wastewater plants—
is crumbling all over this country. All
over this country, there are major
infrastructural problems. But I hear
over and over again: We don’t have the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.026 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S809
January 31, 2019
funding to rebuild our crumbling infra-
structure and put millions of Ameri-
cans to work at good-paying jobs re-
building that infrastructure. We just
don’t have the money.
Our schoolteachers are underpaid,
but we don’t have the money to provide
attractive salaries in order to get the
best and the brightest to do the most
important work in this country; that
is, teaching our young people.
Today, we have veterans—people who
put their lives on the line—sleeping on
the streets, but we don’t have the
money to house them.
Families in America cannot afford
childcare, and public schools are under-
funded.
We don’t have the money to address
those crises, but somehow we do have
hundreds of billions of dollars available
to provide tax breaks for the top one-
tenth of 1 percent.
We apparently have enough money to
provide the Walton family—the
wealthiest family in America, the folks
who own Walmart, the people who pay
their own employees starvation
wages—by repealing the estate tax, as
Senator MCCONNELL and President
Trump would like to do, we have
enough money to provide the Walton
family, the wealthiest family in Amer-
ica, with a tax break of up to $63 bil-
lion. Veterans sleep out on the street,
teachers are underpaid, and 30 million
Americans have no health insurance.
We can’t address those issues, but we
do have legislation that would provide
up to $63 billion in tax breaks for one
family.
We have, apparently, enough money
available to provide the Koch broth-
ers—a family who spent some $400 mil-
lion during the midterm election to
help elect Republican candidates; the
Koch brothers, one of the wealthiest,
most politically active families in
America—we have enough money to
provide them with up to a $39 billion
tax break.
Under this legislation, we can pro-
vide a tax break of up to $27 billion to
the Mars candy bar family and up to a
$13.4 billion tax break to the Cox cable
family.
In other words, at a time of massive
needs in this country, we don’t have
enough money available to protect
working families and the middle class,
but we certainly have more money
than we know what to do with in order
to give incredible tax breaks to the
richest people in this country.
The estate tax that we are going to
be proposing does not give massive tax
breaks to the wealthiest people in this
country—quite the contrary. It says to
those people that at a time of massive
income and wealth inequality, instead
of repealing the estate tax, we must
substantially increase this tax on the
multimillionaires and billionaires of
this country and in doing that, not
only come up with much needed rev-
enue to address the needs of working
families but also to reduce wealth in-
equality in America.
That is why this week I will be intro-
ducing legislation for an estate tax bill
that would do exactly the opposite of
what my Republican colleagues pro-
pose to do. Let me briefly explain what
is in the legislation I am offering.
Under my bill, anytime someone in-
herits an estate in America of $3.5 mil-
lion or less, that person will not pay
one penny in estate taxes. They will
get to keep that inheritance tax-free.
That population includes 99.8 percent
of the American people. The legislation
I am proposing would not raise taxes
by a penny on 99.8 percent of the Amer-
ican population.
If you are in the top two-tenths of 1
percent of the population—the popu-
lation that inherits over $3.5 million—
your taxes will, in fact, be going up,
and they should be going up.
My legislation establishes a 45-per-
cent tax on the value of an estate be-
tween $3.5 million and $10 million, a 50-
percent tax on the value of an estate
between $10 million and $50 million, a
55-percent tax on the value of an estate
in excess of $50 million, and a 77-per-
cent tax on the value of an estate
above $1 billion. In other words, this
bill begins to create a progressive tax
system in America, which is based on
ability to pay.
I know some may think otherwise,
but the truth is, this is not a radical
idea. From 1941 through 1976, the top
estate tax rate was, in fact, 77 percent
on estate values above $50 million.
Back to 1976, the top estate tax rate
was 77 percent.
This bill would also close tax loop-
holes that have allowed billionaire
families, such as the Waltons, to pass
fortunes from one generation to the
next without paying their fair share of
taxes.
Under this legislation, the families of
all 588 billionaires in our country, who
have a combined net worth of over $3
trillion, would pay up to $2.2 trillion in
estate taxes.
Let me make a confession here. This
idea, this approach, was not developed
by BERNIE SANDERS. It is not a new
idea. More than a century ago, a good
Republican President named Teddy
Roosevelt fought for the creation of a
progressive estate tax to reduce the
enormous concentration of wealth that
existed during the Gilded Age.
What is really quite remarkable is
that what Teddy Roosevelt talked
about over 100 years ago during the
Gilded Age of the 1920s, when little
children were working in factories and
fields and the wealthiest people were
enjoying incredible wealth and lux-
ury—the idea Teddy Roosevelt pro-
posed then is as relevant today as it
was back then. Let me quote what
Teddy Roosevelt said more than 100
years ago:
The absence of effective state, and, espe-
cially, national restraint upon unfair money-
getting has tended to create a small class of
enormously wealthy and economically pow-
erful men, whose chief object is to hold and
increase their power. The prime need is to
change the conditions which enable these
men to accumulate power. Therefore, I be-
lieve in a graduated inheritance tax on big
fortunes, properly safeguarded against eva-
sion and increasing rapidly in amount with
the size of the estate.
That was Teddy Roosevelt over 100
years ago. What Roosevelt said then is
absolutely true for today.
From a moral and an economic per-
spective, our Nation will not thrive
when so few people have so much
wealth and power and so many people
have so little wealth and power. This
wealth and income inequality is not
only unjust and unfair; the truth is, it
is a real threat to our economy and our
democracy.
We need a tax system in this country
that tells the billionaire class that
they are going to have to pay their fair
share of taxes so that we do not have 30
million people without health insur-
ance, so that we do not have young
people graduating college $50,000,
$100,000 in debt, so that we do not have
an infrastructure that is crumbling,
and so that we do not see our great
country moving toward an oligarchic
form of society where a handful of fam-
ilies enjoy incredible wealth and power
at the expense of everybody else.
In my view, the fairest way to reduce
wealth inequality, to invest in the mid-
dle class and working families of our
country, and to preserve our democ-
racy is to enact a progressive estate
tax on the inherited wealth of multi-
millionaires and billionaires. That is
exactly what I will be proposing.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 35—SUP-
PORTING DEMOCRATIC PRIN-
CIPLES AND STANDARDS IN BO-
LIVIA AND THROUGHOUT LATIN
AMERICA
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, and Mr. CRUZ) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 35
Whereas the nation of Bolivia proclaimed
independence from Spain on August 6, 1825,
with Simón Bolı́var as its president;
Whereas Bolivia endured more than a cen-
tury of fragile governance and instability,
with more than 150 changes of leadership
since it gained independence and at least six
military coups between 1952 and 1981 alone;
Whereas, between October 6 and 7, 1970, and
again on July 21, 1978, Bolivia experienced a
succession of military coups resulting in
three different governments over each re-
spective period;
Whereas a transition to civilian democracy
occurred in 1982, after the ruling military
junta handed over power to a civilian gov-
ernment, which managed to maintain con-
trol despite major economic upheavals and
painful market reforms;
Whereas elected President Gonzalo San-
chez de Lozada and his successor Carlos Mesa
both resigned in the face of destabilizing pro-
tests in 2003 and 2005, respectively;
Whereas, in 2005, Evo Morales won his first
term as president, becoming Bolivia’s first
indigenous citizen elected to the office;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.026 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S810 January 31, 2019
Whereas Bolivia’s historically
marginalized indigenous peoples represent
approximately 41 percent of the country’s
population, according to the 2012 Bolivian
census;
Whereas, in 2006, the people of Bolivia
elected a constituent assembly to write a
new constitution recognizing greater polit-
ical and economic rights for the country’s
indigenous population, while key opposition
parties boycotted the constituent assembly
election;
Whereas, in 2008, a recall referendum on
President Morales was rejected by 67 percent
of voters in Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2008, amidst growing protests
in the country and rising tensions between
Bolivia and the United States, President Mo-
rales expelled the United States ambassador
to Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2009, Bolivians approved, by a
vote of more than 60 percent in a nationwide
referendum, a new constitution that in-
cluded a limit of two five-year presidential
terms;
Whereas, in 2009, President Morales won re-
election to a second term with more than 60
percent of the vote;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales’ loyal-
ists in Bolivia’s Legislative Assembly ap-
proved legislation allowing him to run for a
third term—a law that President Morales’
political allies in the Bolivian Constitu-
tional Tribunal affirmed, ruling that the
two-term limit in the country’s new con-
stitution did not apply because President
Morales’ first term was under the old con-
stitution;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales ex-
pelled the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development for trying to ‘‘con-
spire against Bolivia’’;
Whereas, in 2014, President Morales won
his third term as president, with 60 percent
of the vote;
Whereas, in 2016, the Government of Bo-
livia called a national referendum to modify
the constitution in order to allow for an ad-
ditional term for Morales;
Whereas, that same year, more than half of
voters in Bolivia rejected the proposed lift-
ing of presidential term limits that would
have allowed President Morales to run for a
fourth term and serve at least 20 years in of-
fice;
Whereas, after the referendum, the Morales
Administration increased its troubling rhet-
oric against opposition media and advanced
a narrative suggesting a plot to prevent
President Morales from staying in power;
Whereas, in 2017, President Morales’ loyal-
ists on the Bolivian Constitutional Tribunal
lifted constitutional term limits arguing
that they violated the candidates’ human
rights, citing the American Convention of
Human Rights, adopted at San Jose Novem-
ber 22, 1969, the main human rights treaty in
the Americas, as the legal foundation for its
decision;
Whereas the Convention states that polit-
ical rights can only be limited under very
specific circumstances, a provision which,
when drafted in 1969, was intended to prevent
abusive governments from arbitrarily bar-
ring opposition candidates and not to impede
constitutional reelection limits designed to
reduce corruption and abuse of power given
Latin America’s long history of violent and
prolonged dictatorship;
Whereas the Bolivian Constitutional Tri-
bunal’s ruling rendered Bolivia one of a very
small number of countries in the Western
Hemisphere that does not place limits on
presidential reelection;
Whereas the Secretary General of the Or-
ganization of American States said the cited
clause ‘‘does not mean the right to perpetual
power . . . Besides, presidential re-election
was rejected by popular will in a referendum
in 2016.’’;
Whereas, in March 2018, a report commis-
sioned by the Organization of American
States specifically related to this issue stat-
ed that—
(1) ‘‘There is no specific and distinct
human right to re-election.’’;
(2) ‘‘Term limits. . .are a reasonable limit
to the right to be elected because they pre-
vent an unlimited exercise of power in the
hands of the President.’’; and
(3) ‘‘The limits on a president’s re-election
do not therefore unduly restrict his/her
human and political rights.’’; and
Whereas the Morales era has seen many so-
cial and economic gains, but also a weak-
ening and undermining of key democratic in-
stitutions in order to favor the ruling party:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the important transitions to
democracy and the regular peaceful transfers
of power through elections that have taken
place in the majority of Latin American and
Caribbean countries in recent decades;
(2) recognizes the historic significance of
Bolivia’s 2005 election;
(3) expresses concern for efforts to cir-
cumvent presidential terms limits in the Bo-
livian constitution;
(4) supports presidential term limits preva-
lent in Latin America as reasonable checks
against a history of coups, corruption, and
abuses of power;
(5) expresses the belief that the 2016 ref-
erendum vote to maintain presidential term
limits reflected the legitimate will of the
majority of voters in Bolivia;
(6) agrees with the Organization of Amer-
ican States Secretary General’s interpreta-
tion of the American Convention of Human
Rights as not applicable to presidential term
limits;
(7) calls on the Government of Bolivia to
respect, and where necessary restore, the
independence of key electoral and governing
bodies and administer the October 2019 elec-
tion in adherence with international demo-
cratic norms and its own constitutional lim-
its on presidential terms; and
(8) calls on Latin American democracies to
continue to uphold democratic norms and
standards among members states.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 36—SUP-
PORTING THE OBSERVATION OF
NATIONAL TRAFFICKING AND
MODERN SLAVERY PREVENTION
MONTH DURING THE PERIOD BE-
GINNING ON JANUARY 1, 2019,
AND ENDING ON FEBRUARY 1,
2019, TO RAISE AWARENESS OF,
AND OPPOSITION TO, HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AND MODERN
SLAVERY
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. CORNYN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. MARKEY,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. RUBIO)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 36
Whereas the United States abolished the
transatlantic slave trade in 1808 and abol-
ished chattel slavery and prohibited involun-
tary servitude in 1865;
Whereas, because the people of the United
States remain committed to protecting indi-
vidual freedom, there is a national impera-
tive to eliminate human trafficking and
modern slavery, which is commonly consid-
ered to mean—
(1) the recruitment, harboring, transpor-
tation, provision, or obtaining of an indi-
vidual through the use of force, fraud, or co-
ercion for the purpose of subjecting that in-
dividual to involuntary servitude, peonage,
debt bondage, or slavery; or
(2) the inducement of a commercial sex act
by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the
individual induced to perform that act is
younger than 18 years of age;
Whereas the Department of Justice has re-
ported that human trafficking and modern
slavery has been reported and investigated in
each of the 50 States and the District of Co-
lumbia;
Whereas, since 2007, the National Human
Trafficking Hotline has identified more than
45,000 cases of human trafficking;
Whereas victims of human trafficking are
difficult to identify and are subject to ma-
nipulation, force, fraud, coercion, and abuse;
Whereas, to help businesses in the United
States combat child labor and forced labor in
global supply chains, the Department of
Labor has identified 148 goods from 76 coun-
tries that are made by child labor and forced
labor;
Whereas the Department of State has re-
ported that the top 3 countries of origin of
federally identified trafficking victims in fis-
cal year 2017 were the United States, Mexico,
and Honduras;
Whereas forced labor and human traf-
ficking generates revenues of approximately
$150,000,000,000 annually worldwide and there
are an estimated 40,000,000 victims of human
trafficking across the globe;
Whereas, to combat human trafficking and
modern slavery in the United States and
globally, the people of the United States, the
Federal Government, and State and local
governments must be—
(1) aware of the realities of human traf-
ficking and modern slavery; and
(2) dedicated to stopping the horrific enter-
prise of human trafficking and modern slav-
ery;
Whereas the United States should hold ac-
countable all individuals, groups, organiza-
tions, and countries that support, advance,
or commit acts of human trafficking and
modern slavery;
Whereas, through education, the United
States must also work to end human traf-
ficking and modern slavery in all forms in
the United States and around the world;
Whereas victims of human trafficking de-
serve a trauma-informed approach that inte-
grates the pursuit of justice and provision of
social services designed to help them escape,
and recover from, the physical, mental, emo-
tional, and spiritual trauma they endured;
Whereas combating human trafficking re-
quires a whole-of-government effort that
rests on a unified and coordinated response
among Federal, State, and local agencies and
that places equal value on the identification
and stabilization of victims, as well as the
investigation and prosecution of traffickers;
Whereas laws to prosecute perpetrators of
human trafficking and to assist and protect
victims of human trafficking and modern
slavery have been enacted in the United
States, including—
(1) the Trafficking Victims Protection Act
of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.);
(2) title XII of the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–
4; 127 Stat. 136);
(3) the Justice for Victims of Trafficking
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–22; 129 Stat. 227);
(4) sections 910 and 914(e) of the Trade Fa-
cilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015
(Public Law 114–125);
(5) section 1298 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (22
U.S.C. 7114);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.033 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S811
January 31, 2019
(6) the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of
2017 (Public Law 115–392);
(7) the Trafficking Victims Protection Act
of 2017 (Public Law 115–393);
(8) the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Vic-
tims Prevention and Protection Reauthor-
ization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–425); and
(9) the Trafficking Victims Protection Re-
authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–
427);
Whereas the Justice for Victims of Traf-
ficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–22; 129
Stat. 227) established the United States Ad-
visory Council on Human Trafficking to pro-
vide a formal platform for survivors of
human trafficking to advise and make rec-
ommendations on Federal anti-trafficking
policies to the Interagency Task Force to
Monitor and Combat Trafficking established
by the President;
Whereas the Department of Defense, the
General Services Administration, and the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion issued a final rule (80 Fed. Reg. 4967) to
implement Executive Order 13627, entitled
‘‘Strengthening Protections Against Traf-
ficking in Persons in Federal Contracts’’,
that clarifies the policy of the United States
on combating trafficking in persons as out-
lined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation
by strengthening the prohibition on contrac-
tors from charging employee recruitment
fees;
Whereas, although such laws and regula-
tions are currently in force, it is essential to
increase public awareness, particularly
among individuals who are most likely to
come into contact with victims of human
trafficking and modern slavery, regarding
conditions and dynamics of human traf-
ficking and modern slavery precisely because
traffickers use techniques that are designed
to severely limit self-reporting and evade
law enforcement;
Whereas January 1 is the anniversary of
the effective date of the Emancipation Proc-
lamation;
Whereas February 1 is—
(1) the anniversary of the date on which
President Abraham Lincoln signed the joint
resolution sending the 13th Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States to the
States for ratification to forever declare,
‘‘Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude
. . . shall exist within the United States, or
any place subject to their jurisdiction’’; and
(2) a date that has long been celebrated as
National Freedom Day, as described in sec-
tion 124 of title 36, United States Code; and
Whereas, under the authority of Congress
to enforce the 13th Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States ‘‘by appro-
priate legislation’’, Congress, through the
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000
(22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), updated the post-Civil
War involuntary servitude and slavery stat-
utes and adopted an approach of victim pro-
tection, vigorous prosecution, and preven-
tion of human trafficking, commonly known
as the ‘‘3P’’ approach: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate supports—
(1) observing National Trafficking and
Modern Slavery Prevention Month during
the period beginning on January 1, 2019, and
ending on February 1, 2019, to recognize the
vital role that the people of the United
States have in ending human trafficking and
modern slavery;
(2) marking the observation of National
Trafficking and Modern Slavery Prevention
Month with appropriate programs and activi-
ties, culminating in the observance on Feb-
ruary 1, 2019, of National Freedom Day, as
described in section 124 of title 36, United
States Code;
(3) urging continued partnerships with
Federal, State, and local agencies, as well as
social service providers and nonprofit orga-
nizations to address human trafficking with
a collaborative, victim-centered approach;
and
(4) all other efforts to prevent, eradicate,
and raise awareness of, and opposition to,
human trafficking and modern slavery.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise to introduce a resolution in ob-
servance of ‘‘National Trafficking and
Modern Slavery Prevention Month.’’
This resolution is meant to bring
awareness to the worldwide scourge of
human trafficking.
All of us, as Americans, must raise
our awareness of this pernicious crime
that often goes unnoticed and unde-
tected in our communities. Human
trafficking claims over 40 million vic-
tims globally. It has also created an es-
timated $150 billion global industry, an
industry that affects every State in
America.
Traffickers prey on vulnerable popu-
lations, like those in the juvenile jus-
tice system, and use physical and psy-
chological techniques to control their
victims behind closed doors: isolating
them from the public, exploiting lan-
guage and cultural barriers, and
threatening victims with violence.
These techniques often prevent victims
from coming forward. All of us can do
better in recognizing warning signs.
I have been heartened that recently,
various private entities, such as hotels,
the travel industry, and those in the
convenience-store industry, have all
come together to commit to training
their employees to better detect
human trafficking. In addition to rais-
ing awareness, January is also a month
to renew our commitment to enforce,
and enact, laws to help eradicate traf-
ficking.
For example, in 2000, Congress en-
acted the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act, which marked a strong com-
mitment to prosecute human traf-
fickers and better aid victims.
Last Congress, then-Judiciary Chair-
man CHUCK GRASSLEY and I authored
the Trafficking Victims Protection
Act, which was complemented by Sen-
ators CORNYN’s and KLOBUCHAR’s Abol-
ish Human Trafficking Act. Both of
those bills update our trafficking laws
to better aid victims.
Bipartisan members of Congress
worked together to address this crit-
ical issue, and I am proud that both
bills were signed into law last month.
Finally, in introducing today’s reso-
lution, I would like to thank Senators
GRASSLEY, LEAHY, CORNYN, KLOBUCHAR,
ISAKSON, MARKEY, SHAHEEN,
BLUMENTHAL, BROWN, TOOMEY, and
RUBIO for cosponsoring the resolution.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I yield the Floor.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 37—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK BEGINNING
FEBRUARY 3, 2019, AS ‘‘NATIONAL
TRIBAL COLLEGES AND UNIVER-
SITIES WEEK’’
Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BENNET, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. MORAN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. THUNE, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms. STABENOW,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. SULLIVAN, and Mr.
PETERS) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 37
Whereas there are 37 Tribal Colleges and
Universities operating on more than 75 cam-
puses in 16 States;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
are tribally chartered or federally chartered
institutions of higher education and there-
fore have a unique relationship with the Fed-
eral Government;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
serve students from more than 230 federally
recognized Indian tribes;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
offer students access to knowledge and skills
grounded in cultural traditions and values,
including indigenous languages, which—
(1) enhances Indian communities; and
(2) enriches the United States as a nation;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
provide access to high-quality postsecondary
educational opportunities for—
(1) American Indians;
(2) Alaska Natives; and
(3) other individuals that live in some of
the most isolated and economically de-
pressed areas in the United States;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
are accredited institutions of higher edu-
cation that prepare students to succeed in
the global and highly competitive workforce;
Whereas Tribal Colleges and Universities
have open enrollment policies, and approxi-
mately 15 percent of the students at Tribal
Colleges and Universities are non-Indian in-
dividuals; and
Whereas the collective mission and the
considerable achievements of Tribal Colleges
and Universities deserve national recogni-
tion: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week beginning February
3, 2019, as ‘‘National Tribal Colleges and Uni-
versities Week’’; and
(2) calls on the people of the United States
and interested groups to observe National
Tribal Colleges and Universities Week with
appropriate activities and programs to dem-
onstrate support for Tribal Colleges and Uni-
versities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 38—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF FEB-
RUARY 4 THROUGH 8, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL SCHOOL COUNSELING
WEEK’’
Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. CORNYN, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. KING,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
COONS, and Ms. DUCKWORTH) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 38
Whereas the American School Counselor
Association has designated February 4
through 8, 2019, as ‘‘National School Coun-
seling Week’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.035 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S812 January 31, 2019
Whereas school counselors have long advo-
cated for equal opportunities for all stu-
dents;
Whereas school counselors help develop
well-rounded students by guiding students
through academic, social and emotional, and
career development;
Whereas personal and social growth results
in increased academic achievement;
Whereas school counselors play a vital role
in ensuring that students are ready for both
college and careers;
Whereas school counselors play a vital role
in making students aware of opportunities
for financial aid and college scholarships;
Whereas school counselors assist with and
coordinate efforts to foster a positive school
climate, resulting in a safer learning envi-
ronment for all students;
Whereas school counselors have been in-
strumental in helping students, teachers,
and parents deal with personal trauma as
well as tragedies in their communities and
the United States;
Whereas students face myriad challenges
every day, including peer pressure, bullying,
mental health issues, the deployment of fam-
ily members to serve in conflicts overseas,
and school violence;
Whereas a school counselor is one of the
few professionals in a school building who is
trained in both education and social and
emotional development;
Whereas the roles and responsibilities of
school counselors are often misunderstood;
Whereas the school counselor position is
often among the first to be eliminated to
meet budgetary constraints;
Whereas the national average ratio of stu-
dents to school counselors is 464 to 1, almost
twice the 250 to 1 ratio recommended by the
American School Counselor Association, the
National Association for College Admission
Counseling, and other organizations; and
Whereas the celebration of National
School Counseling Week will increase aware-
ness of the important and necessary role
school counselors play in the lives of stu-
dents in the United States: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of February 4
through 8, 2019, as ‘‘National School Coun-
seling Week’’; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to observe National School Coun-
seling Week with appropriate ceremonies
and activities that promote awareness of the
role school counselors play in schools and
the community at large in preparing stu-
dents for fulfilling lives as contributing
members of society.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 39—RECOG-
NIZING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE AMERICAN FARM BU-
REAU FEDERATION AND CELE-
BRATING THE LONG HISTORY OF
THE AMERICAN FARM BUREAU
FEDERATION REPRESENTING
THE FARMERS OF THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CARPER,
Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. COTTON, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. JONES, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LANKFORD,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. SCHUMER, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Mr. WICKER, and Ms. STA-
BENOW) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 39
Whereas, on November 12, 1919, a group of
farmers met in Chicago, Illinois, to found the
American Farm Bureau Federation, with the
goal of ‘‘making the business of farming
more profitable and the community a better
place to live’’;
Whereas James Howard, the first president
of the American Farm Bureau Federation,
said in 1920, ‘‘What’s good for the farmers is
good for America’’;
Whereas, with State farm bureaus in all 50
States and Puerto Rico, 2,800 county farm
bureaus, and 6,000,000 member families, the
American Farm Bureau Federation is one of
the largest farmer organizations in the
United States;
Whereas the mission of the American Farm
Bureau Federation is to ‘‘enhance and
strengthen the lives of rural Americans and
to build strong, prosperous agricultural com-
munities’’;
Whereas the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration fulfills its mission—
(1) by representing farm and ranch families
united for the purpose of formulating action
to improve the rural United States;
(2) by supporting educational improve-
ment, economic opportunity, and social ad-
vancement; and
(3) by promoting the well-being of the peo-
ple of the United States;
Whereas the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration has represented the interests of
farmers with respect to the consideration
and enactment of all major legislation im-
pacting farmers since the founding of the
American Farm Bureau Federation; and
Whereas the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration plays a vital role in promoting the
well-being of the people of the United
States—
(1) by analyzing the problems faced by
farm and ranch families; and
(2) by formulating action to achieve the
goals of farm and ranch families: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commemorates the 100th anniversary of
the American Farm Bureau Federation;
(2) recognizes the American Farm Bureau
Federation for 100 years of promoting farm
and ranch interests for the benefit of the
people of the United States; and
(3) applauds the American Farm Bureau
Federation for its past, present, and future
efforts to advocate for farm interests that
are critical to the United States.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 89. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1, to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 90. Mr. RISCH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 91. Mr. RISCH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 92. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 65 proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL (for himself, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. BLUNT,
Mr. BURR, Mr. ROMNEY, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. SASSE, Mrs. FISCHER,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. SHELBY,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
BOOZMAN) to the bill S. 1, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 93. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 94. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 95. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 96. Mr. MENENDEZ proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 65 proposed by
Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself, Mr. GRAHAM,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. BURR, Mr. ROMNEY, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. SASSE,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. SHELBY, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. WICKER, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
YOUNG, and Mr. BOOZMAN) to the bill S. 1,
supra.
SA 97. Mr. RISCH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 98. Mr. RISCH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 99. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr. JOHNSON)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill S. 1, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 100. Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 89. Mr. LEE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, to make improvements
to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the
appropriation of funds to Israel, to re-
authorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 335. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this title may be construed as
an authorization for the use of military
force.
SA 90. Mr. RISCH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.037 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S813
January 31, 2019
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In section 205(a), insert after ‘‘establish-
ment of the United States Development Fi-
nance Corporation’’ the following: ‘‘(which
means the end of the transition period, as de-
fined in section 1461 of the Better Utilization
of Investments Leading to Development Act
of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115–254))’’.
SA 91. Mr. RISCH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 18, between lines 17 and 18, insert
the following:
(3) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may include a classified
annex.
SA 92. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 65 proposed by Mr.
MCCONNELL (for himself, Mr. GRAHAM,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. BURR, Mr. ROMNEY, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
SASSE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GRASSLEY,
Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mr. BOOZMAN) to the bill S. 1, to make
improvements to certain defense and
security assistance provisions and to
authorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike ‘‘ON WITHDRAWALS OF UNITED
STATES FORCES FROM SYRIA AND AF-
GHANISTAN’’ and all that follows through
‘‘Syria or Afghanistan’’ and insert:
‘‘SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TRANSITION
OF MILITARY AND SECURITY OPER-
ATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) After al Qaeda attacked the United
States on September 11, 2001, the United
States Government rightly sought to bring
to justice those who attacked us, to elimi-
nate al Qaeda’s safe havens and training
camps in Afghanistan.
(2) Members of the Armed Forces, intel-
ligence personnel, and diplomatic corps have
skillfully achieved these objectives, culmi-
nating in the death of Osama bin Laden.
(3) Operation Enduring Freedom was the
longest military operation in United States
history, and combined with Operation Free-
dom’s Sentinel the United States’ involve-
ment in Afghanistan has exceeded
$1,000,000,000,000 in costs to the United States
taxpayer and continues to cost taxpayers
over $45,000,000,000 a year.
(4) Members of the United States Armed
Forces have served in Afghanistan valiantly
and with honor, and many have sacrificed
their lives and health in service to their
country;
(5) The United States has suffered more
than 2,000 deaths in Afghanistan (including
at least 13 in 2018), and the United States has
dropped more than 5,200 bombs in 2018, a
record high.
(6) Former Secretary of Defense Jim
Mattis, reflecting consensus within United
States and international security experts,
has concluded that there is no military solu-
tion to the conflict in Afghanistan, stating,
‘‘It’s all working to achieve a political rec-
onciliation, not a military victory. The vic-
tory will be a political reconciliation.’’
(7) Over the past 17 years, the mission of
the United States has evolved to include a
prolonged nation-building effort in Afghani-
stan.
(8) Such nation-building efforts in Afghani-
stan are undermined by endemic corruption,
high illiteracy, tribal fractions, and a his-
toric aversion to a strong central govern-
ment in that country.
(9) The United States Government will
continue to support the development of Af-
ghanistan with a strong diplomatic and
counterterrorism presence in the region.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the announcement by Special Rep-
resentative for Afghanistan Reconciliation
Zalmay Khalilzad that the United States and
the Taliban agreed on a draft framework
that could lead to the withdrawal of U.S.
military forces from Afghanistan and that
‘‘[t]he Taliban have committed, to [the Ad-
ministration’s] satisfaction, to do what is
necessary that would prevent Afghanistan
from ever becoming a platform for inter-
national terrorist groups or individuals’’
should be welcomed and a reflection of an
appropriate diplomatic approach to end U.S.
military involvement in the country.
(2) the President should complete the tran-
sition of the responsibility for military and
security operations in Afghanistan to the
Government of Afghanistan as soon as pos-
sible but no later than September 18, 2021,
the 20th anniversary of the enactment of
Public Law 107–40, the Authorization for Use
of Military Force against those responsible
for the attacks on September 11, 2001, in con-
junction with efforts to turn the draft frame-
work into a durable peace between the Gov-
ernment of Afghanistan and the Taliban;
(3) the U.S. should re-double diplomatic ef-
forts to support our Afghan partners as they
prepare to hold presidential elections in 2019;
(4) any cost savings resulting from a troop
withdrawal should be re-programmed to in-
crease bilateral humanitarian assistance and
to maintain gains in human rights to include
advances made for women and girls to Af-
ghanistan in an amount no less than one per-
cent of the annual cost to the U.S. budget of
our military engagement in Afghanistan in
fiscal year 2018; and
(5) not later than 90 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the President
should submit to Congress a report—
(A) including a plan for the complete tran-
sition of all military and security operations
in Afghanistan to the Government of Af-
ghanistan.
(B) assessing the likely humanitarian
needs of Afghanistan in the ten years fol-
lowing a U.S. military withdrawal; and
(C) assessing efforts by Special Representa-
tive Khalilzad to turn the draft framework
reached with the Taliban into a durable
peace agreement between the Government of
Afghanistan and the Taliban.
SA 93. Mr. PETERS (for himself and
Ms. STABENOW) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, to make improvements
to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the
appropriation of funds to Israel, to re-
authorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 43, between lines 20 and 21, insert
the following:
(5) THRESHOLD FOR APPLICATION TO CON-
TRACTS.—The authority to adopt and enforce
measures under subsection (a) to restrict
contracting for goods and services shall not
apply to contracts with a value of less than
$1,000,000.
SA 94. Mr. PETERS (for himself and
Ms. STABENOW) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, to make improvements
to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the
appropriation of funds to Israel, to re-
authorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 43, strike lines 12 through 20.
SA 95. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself,
Mr. COONS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, and Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 1, to make im-
provements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
TITLE V—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UNITED
STATES BILATERAL ASSISTANCE TO
THE WEST BANK AND GAZA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The dire health and economic condi-
tions facing the Palestinian people has cre-
ated a humanitarian crisis in the West Bank
and Gaza. The United States has long been a
leader in helping address the plight of inno-
cent civilians.
(2) These fragile conditions could con-
tribute to circumstances that would under-
mine Israel’s security and stability in the re-
gion.
(3) The Department of State has failed to
obligate any of the funds Congress appro-
priated in fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year
2018, $302,750,000 and $257,500,000, respectively,
for bilateral assistance to the West Bank and
Gaza.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the Executive branch should expend
during fiscal year 2019 for bilateral assist-
ance to the West Bank and Gaza—
(A) $196,500,000 for the Economic Support
Fund;
(B) $60,000,000 for International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement; and
(C) $1,000,000 for Nonproliferation, Anti-
Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.042 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S814 January 31, 2019
(2) this funding is focused primarily on pro-
viding food, medical care, and other humani-
tarian goods and services and these expendi-
tures must be consistent with the restric-
tions outlined in the Taylor Force Act (title
X of division S of Public Law 115–141) and
shall only be provided through nongovern-
mental organizations and shall not directly
benefit the Palestinian Authority.
SA 96. Mr. MENENDEZ proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 65 pro-
posed by Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. BURR, Mr.
ROMNEY, Ms. ERNST, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. SASSE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. SHELBY,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. WICKER, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. YOUNG,
and Mr. BOOZMAN) to the bill S. 1, to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes; as follows:
At the end of the amendment, add the fol-
lowing:
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed as a declara-
tion of war or an authorization of the use of
military force.
SA 97. Mr. RISCH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. CLARIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR RE-
PORT ON ESTABLISHING AN ENTER-
PRISE FUND FOR JORDAN.
For purposes of section 205(a), the term
‘‘establishment of the United States Devel-
opment Finance Corporation’’ means the end
of the transition period, as defined in section
1461 of the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development Act of 2018 (division
F of Public Law 115–254).
SA 98. Mr. RISCH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. FORM OF REPORT ON THE COOPERA-
TION OF THE UNITED STATES AND
ISRAEL WITH RESPECT TO COUN-
TERING UNMANNED AERIAL SYS-
TEMS.
The report required under section 123(d)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
SA 99. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr.
JOHNSON) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appro-
priation of funds to Israel, to reauthor-
ize the United States-Jordan Defense
Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian peo-
ple, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REPORT ON UNITED STATES POLICY IN
SYRIA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The regime of Bashar al Assad has com-
mitted gross atrocities against the people of
Syria.
(2) The commission of these atrocities led
to the eruption, and continuation, of the
Syrian civil war.
(3) The ensuing conflict has resulted in the
death of over 400,000 Syrian civilians.
(4) The Syrian civil war has caused over
5,500,000 Syrians to flee their country as ref-
ugees and over 6,000,000 others to be dis-
placed from their homes inside Syria.
(5) The Assad regime has repeatedly used
chemical weapons against its own people.
(6) In 2011 the Assad regime released from
its prisons many of the terrorists who would
subsequently lead the Islamic State in Iraq
and Syria (ISIS).
(7) ISIS has organized, executed, and in-
spired countless terror attacks throughout
the world since its emergence, including in
the United States.
(8) By the end of 2014, ISIS controlled one
third of the territory of Syria and one third
of the territory of Iraq.
(9) Since 2014, the United States has lead
Operation Inherent Resolve, with the help of
allies, to degrade and destroy ISIS.
(10) Approximately 2,000 members of the
United States Armed Forces are deployed to
Syria under Operation Inherent Resolve.
(11) The United States and its allies have
succeeded in seizing back nearly all the
physical territory held by ISIS in 2014.
(12) Tens of thousands of ISIS terrorists re-
main in Syria and Iraq despite having lost
much of their territorial ‘‘Caliphate’’.
(13) The Islamic State continues to pose a
threat to the security of the United States
and that of its allies.
(14) Syrian Kurdish fighters in the People’s
Protection Units, or YPG, have served as ef-
fective and trustworthy allies in the fight
against ISIS.
(15) The Government of Turkey views these
Kurdish forces as an enemy and has ex-
pressed its intention to destroy them.
(16) The support of the Russian and Iranian
regimes in Syria has been invaluable to the
reinforcement of the Assad government.
(17) Russian-backed forces have directly
assaulted United States Armed Forces de-
ployed in Syria on at least one occasion.
(18) The Government of Iran seeks to en-
trench its presence in Syria as a means of
supporting its terrorist proxies, like
Hezbollah and Hamas, and harming its en-
emies, like Israel.
(19) Ensuring the existence of Israel, Amer-
ica’s most important ally in the Middle East,
remains a key United States interest in the
region.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the pursuit of a clear, publicly-articu-
lated strategy will guide any withdrawal of
United States Armed Forces in Syria;
(2) such a strategy aims to ensure that the
Syrian civil war ends through peaceful, po-
litical means;
(3) such a strategy includes the consider-
ation of and planning for the security inter-
ests of the Syrian Kurdish allies of the
United States;
(4) such a strategy recognizes that ISIS
and al Qaeda terrorists in Syria continue to
pose a threat to the United States and its al-
lies;
(5) such a strategy includes among its ob-
jectives the complete degradation and long-
term destruction of ISIS;
(6) such a strategy will seek to prevent the
emergence of another terrorist group in
Syria capable of threatening the security of
the United States once ISIS is defeated;
(7) such a strategy recognizes the desta-
bilizing impact of Iran in Syria; and
(8) such a strategy includes among its ob-
jectives the removal of all Iranian-com-
manded forces from Syria.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to Congress a re-
port detailing United States policy in Syria.
(2) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
SA 100. Mr. GARDNER (for himself
and Mr. COONS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, to make improvements
to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the
appropriation of funds to Israel, to re-
authorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end, add the following:
TITLE V—CYBERSECURITY SANCTIONS
WITH RESPECT TO IRAN
SEC. 501. MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RE-
SPECT TO IRAN RELATING TO SIG-
NIFICANT ACTIVITIES UNDER-
MINING CYBERSECURITY.
(a) INVESTIGATION.—The President shall
initiate an investigation into the possible
designation of an Iranian person under sub-
section (b) upon receipt by the President of
credible information indicating that the per-
son has engaged in conduct described in that
subsection.
(b) DESIGNATION.—The President shall des-
ignate under this subsection any Iranian per-
son that the President determines has di-
rectly or indirectly—
(1) engaged in significant activities under-
mining cybersecurity conducted by the Gov-
ernment of Iran; or
(2) acted for or on behalf of the Govern-
ment of Iran in connection with such activi-
ties.
(c) SANCTIONS.—The President shall block
and prohibit all transactions in all property
and interests in property of any Iranian per-
son designated under subsection (b) if such
property and interests in property are in the
United States, come within the United
States, or are or come within the possession
or control of a United States person.
(d) SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may sus-
pend the application of sanctions under sub-
section (c) with respect to an Iranian person
only if the President submits to the appro-
priate congressional committees in writing a
certification described in paragraph (2) and a
detailed justification for the certification.
(2) CERTIFICATION DESCRIBED.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.045 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S815
January 31, 2019
(A) IN GENERAL.—A certification described
in this paragraph with respect to an Iranian
person is a certification by the President
that—
(i) the person has not, during the 12-month
period immediately preceding the date of the
certification, directly or indirectly engaged
in activities that would qualify the person
for designation under subsection (b); and
(ii) the person is not expected to resume
any such activities.
(B) FORM OF CERTIFICATION.—The certifi-
cation described in subparagraph (A) shall be
submitted in unclassified form but may in-
clude a classified annex.
(e) REIMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—If sanc-
tions are suspended with respect to an Ira-
nian person under subsection (d), such sanc-
tions shall be reinstated if the President de-
termines that the person has resumed the ac-
tivity that resulted in the initial imposition
of sanctions or has engaged in any other ac-
tivity subject to sanctions relating to the in-
volvement of the person in significant activi-
ties undermining cybersecurity on behalf of
the Government of Iran.
(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the au-
thority of the President pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the Comprehen-
sive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Di-
vestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.),
or any other provision of law.
(g) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the President shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report that describes signifi-
cant activities undermining cybersecurity
conducted by the Government of Iran, a per-
son owned or controlled, directly or indi-
rectly, by that Government, or any person
acting for or on behalf of that Government.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An assessment of the extent to which a
foreign government has provided material
support to the Government of Iran, to any
person owned or controlled, directly or indi-
rectly, by that Government, or to any person
acting for or on behalf of that Government,
in connection with the conduct of significant
activities undermining cybersecurity.
(B) A strategy to counter efforts by Iran to
conduct significant activities undermining
cybersecurity directed against the United
States that includes a description of efforts
to engage foreign governments in preventing
the Government of Iran, persons owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by that
Government, and persons acting for or on be-
half of that Government from conducting
significant activities undermining cyberse-
curity.
(3) FORM OF REPORT.—Each report required
by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in an un-
classified form but may include a classified
annex.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the President pro
tempore, and upon the recommenda-
tion of the Democratic Leader, pursu-
ant to 22 U.S.C. 2761, appoints the fol-
lowing Senator as Vice Chairman of
the Senate Delegation to the British-
American Interparliamentary Group
Conference during the 116th Congress:
The Honorable PATRICK J. LEAHY of
Vermont.
The Chair, on behalf of the President
pro tempore, and upon the rec-
ommendation of the Majority Leader,
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2761, appoints the
following Senator as Chairman of the
Senate Delegation to the British-Amer-
ican Interparliamentary Group Con-
ference during the 116th Congress: The
Honorable JOHN BOOZMAN of Arkansas.
f
NATIONAL TRIBAL COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 37, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 37) designating the
week beginning February 3, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Tribal Colleges and Universities
Week.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the meas-
ure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no further debate, the question is
on the adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 37) was agreed
to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
amble be agreed to and that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL SCHOOL COUNSELING
WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 38, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 38) designating the
week of February 4 through 8, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional School Counseling Week.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the meas-
ure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no further debate, the question is
on the adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 38) was agreed
to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
amble be agreed to and that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN FARM
BUREAU FEDERATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 39, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 39) recognizing the
100th anniversary of the American Farm Bu-
reau Federation and celebrating the long his-
tory of the American Farm Bureau Federa-
tion representing the farmers of the United
States.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, that the preamble be agreed to, and
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 39) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, FEBRUARY
4, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, February
4; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of S. 1; further, that not-
withstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the postcloture time on McCon-
nell amendment No. 65 expire and the
cloture motions filed during today’s
session ripen at 5:30 p.m., Monday; fi-
nally, that the filing deadline for to-
day’s cloture motion with respect to S.
1 be Monday at 4 p.m. for first-degree
amendments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA6.045 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S816 January 31, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
FEBRUARY 4, 2019, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5:36 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
February 4, 2019, at 3 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JA6.051 S31JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E119
January 31, 2019
IN MEMORY OF THE HONORABLE
JACK T. BRINKLEY, SR.
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor a distinguished public serv-
ant, dedicated statesman, mentor, and dear
friend of longstanding, The Honorable Jack T.
Brinkley, Sr. Sadly, Jack passed away on Jan-
uary 23, 2019, at the age of 88. His passing
marks the close of a long and prolific life, and
his departure leaves a void in the hearts of
many Georgians. He leaves behind an impec-
cable legacy of service that will never be for-
gotten. A funeral service was held on Satur-
day, January 26, 2019, at 2 p.m. at Evangel
Temple in Columbus, Georgia.
Jack Thomas Brinkley, Sr. was born on De-
cember 22, 1930, to the union of the late Lon-
nie and Stella Brinkley in Faceville, Georgia. A
product of the Decatur County Public School
System, he graduated from Attapulgus High
School in 1947 and Young Harris College in
1949 before working as an educator and bas-
ketball coach from 1949 to 1951. In 1951, he
joined the United States Air Force where he
served for 5 years as a combat crew pilot.
After honorably serving his country, he ob-
tained his Juris Doctorate degree from the
University of Georgia School of Law, was ad-
mitted to the bar, and became a prominent
lawyer with Young, Hollis, and Mosely and
later with Coffin and Brinkley, both in Colum-
bus, Georgia.
He served in the General Assembly of
Georgia for two one-year terms from 1965 to
1966. While serving as the State Representa-
tive for District 112, he was appointed Chair-
man of the Local Affairs Committee, authored
legislation to require phenylketonuria (PKU)
testing for newborn infants, and spearheaded
the protest against the closure of the Warm
Springs Institute for which he later sponsored
funding legislation.
In 1966, he was elected to Congress from
the 3rd District of Georgia at age 35, and
served for eight terms, retiring from the 97th
Congress in 1983. While serving as the rep-
resentative for Georgia’s Third Congressional
District, Jack authored several key pieces of
legislation. Following the Vietnam War, he was
the author of legislation establishing the Gold
Star Wives Charter. He also authored dual
use legislation in Civil Defense during the Car-
ter administration which authorized, by statute,
federal response to natural and wartime disas-
ters. Jack was also the author of legislation
designating Andersonville as a National His-
toric Site, which transferred it from the Depart-
ment of the Army to the Department of Inte-
rior. With the help of his Co-Chairman, the
Honorable Rudy Hayes of Americus, he was
able to place the Georgia Memorial at the site.
During his last Congressional term before
retirement, he was Chairman of the Military
Construction Subcommittee, which had juris-
diction over military acquisitions and disposals,
and as such, blocked the transfer of land at
Fort Gillam chosen for the Region IV Vet-
eran’s cemetery. Subsequently, under Jack’s
leadership, the Fort Mitchell VA cemetery was
approved by the Reagan Administration.
During the last terms of his service in Con-
gress, there was intense competition for the
location of an army plan for One Station Unit
Training (OSUT), where basic infantry training
was to be combined with advanced infantry
training to reduce costs. Endorsements from
the New England Mid-West Coalition for Fort
Drum in New York and Senator Strom Thur-
mond for Fort Jackson in South Carolina ini-
tially blocked the Army’s choice of Fort
Benning. However, Jack’s move to Chairman
of the Military Construction Subcommittee led
to the authorization of the reception station at
Sand Hill at Fort Benning. Jack was also piv-
otal in establishing Interstate 185 connecting
Interstate 85 to Columbus, Georgia. As a Con-
gressman, Jack placed a huge emphasis on
constituent service and attendance, as he was
known for passionately advocating for citizens
facing the heavy hand of bureaucracy and
rarely missed a vote or quorum call.
He was a CIVITAN, a Master Mason, and
an attorney for 50 years, but he was a Chris-
tian for all of his life. He was baptized when
he was almost ten years old at Betts’ Mill
Pond and he practiced the requirements of
Micah to act justly, love mercy, and walk hum-
bly with thy God. He faithfully took his family
to Edgewood Baptist Church and taught Sun-
day School there for many years, before join-
ing Evangel Temple, where he served until his
passing.
Jack was more than a legislator, he was a
servant to all humankind. He gave of himself
to countless causes and organizations. Dr.
Maya Angelou once said that ‘‘I’ve learned
that you shouldn’t go through life with a catch-
er’s mitt on both hands; you need to be able
to throw something back.’’ Jack threw a pro-
digious amount of love and service back to the
state and nation he loved so dearly.
Jack achieved much in his life but none of
it would have been possible without the love
and support of his loving family. While he was
preceded in death by his late and dearly be-
loved wife, Lois Kite Brinkley, and his son,
Jack, Jr.; his legacy lives on through his dear-
ly beloved wife, Sally; his son, Fred; and a
host of family and friends who will miss him
deeply.
On a personal note, Jack Brinkley was a
mentor to me. But more importantly, he was
indeed a role model for my career in public
service. From his strong example of con-
stituent service, to his eloquent use of poems
and appropriate quotations in his oral and writ-
ten presentations. Jack Brinkley has been the
model I have sought to emulate. He held fast
to his promise to ‘‘remember who I am, where
I’m from, and who sent me.’’ The world and
human kind are better because Jack passed
this way.
Jack was truly a great representative for
Southwest Georgia and a stellar example of
how a public servant should serve his con-
stituents. His friendship, leadership, and coun-
sel will be sorely missed.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with thousands
in the Chattahoochee Valley and across Amer-
ica in paying tribute to former Georgia Con-
gressman Jack T. Brinkley, Sr. for a life well
lived and in extending our deepest sympathies
to his family, friends, and loved ones during
this difficult time of bereavement. Moreover,
we pray that they will be consoled and com-
forted by an abiding faith and the Holy Spirit
in the days, weeks, and months ahead.
f
HONORING WILLIAM MARVIN AND
BETTY ANN KNIGHT
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize William Marvin
and Betty Ann Knight, who are celebrating
their 50th wedding anniversary on January 26,
2019.
Bill and Betty have spent their lives serving
their community. Whether Betty’s service in
the County Treasurer’s office and guiding
Platte County as the Presiding Commissioner
for 16 years, or through their volunteer efforts
on boards and community organizations, Bill
and Betty have always been pillars of the
community. It is my hope that they can enjoy
this time of celebration and look back on all of
the joyful times they have shared as a couple,
from quiet family moments to trips in far flung
locations across the continent.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me, their friends, daughters, and grandchildren
in congratulating William Marvin and Betty Ann
Knight on their 50th wedding anniversary and
in wishing them many more years of continued
health and happiness.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, on Wednesday, January 30, 2019, I
was absent from the House because at the
time of votes I was attending to a family mat-
ter back in my home district. Due to my ab-
sence I did not record any votes for the day.
I would like to reflect how I would have voted.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 64; and YEA on Roll
Call No. 65.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JA8.001 E31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E120 January 31, 2019
HONORING THE CAREER OF STE-
PHEN R. BAUMAN—DIRECTOR OF
THE VA CENTRAL CALIFORNIA
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor my good friend and colleague, Stephen
R. Bauman, as he retires from his position as
Director of the VA Central California Health
Care System in Fresno, California. Throughout
his distinguished career with the United States
Navy and the Department of Veterans Affairs,
Stephen has dedicated his life to public serv-
ice and the care of our nation’s veterans. Ste-
phen has left an indelible mark on the Central
Valley through his commitment to the veteran
community.
Stephen honorably served our country for
36 years in the United States Navy. He is a
veteran of the Vietnam War. As a reservist, he
was activated in support of Operation Desert
Storm and completed a tour in Iraq and Ku-
wait in 2004 as a Command Master Chief in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He at-
tended Grantham University in Lenexa, Kan-
sas and obtained a bachelor’s degree in Busi-
ness Administration in 2011.
Stephen began his career with the Depart-
ment of Veteran Affairs in 1977 as a staff
nurse at the VA Palo Alto Healthcare System.
He has served at eight VA facilities throughout
his career, including the Northern California
Health Care System, Sierra Pacific Network
and Los Angeles. He was appointed Director
of the VA Central California Health Care Sys-
tem in November 2015. His proven experience
and sound leadership qualities made him the
perfect fit to guide the Fresno VA.
As director, Stephen was responsible for the
delivery of health care for approximately
96,000 veterans throughout Central California,
with an annual operating budget of $212 mil-
lion. He oversees both the main campus in
Fresno and the outpatient clinics in Tulare,
Merced, and Oakhurst, California. My staff and
I have had the pleasure of working closely
with Director Bauman throughout his tenure.
Stephen has gone above and beyond to help
veterans in need of assistance in the Central
Valley. I commend him for his exemplary work
on behalf of the veterans who have sacrificed
so much for our great nation.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognition of Director Stephen R.
Bauman, in honor of his remarkable career
and contributions to the Department of Vet-
eran Affairs. I wish Stephen the very best as
he enters a new phase in his life. I ask that
you join me in wishing Stephen and his family
continued happiness and prosperity.
f
IN MEMORY OF FORMER EARLY
COUNTY SHERIFF JIMMIE R.
MURKERSON
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, it
is with a heavy heart and solemn remem-
brance that I rise today to pay tribute to a
great man and outstanding public servant, the
former Sheriff of Early County, Georgia, Mr.
Jimmie Ray Murkerson. Sadly, Sheriff
Murkerson passed away on Sunday, January
27, 2019. Funeral services will be held on Fri-
day, February 1, 2019, at 2 p.m. at the First
Assembly of God Church in Blakely, Georgia.
The Blakely, Georgia native was born on
June 7, 1947 to the union of the late Leon and
Cherrie Murkerson. In addition to being a lov-
ing father, son, husband, and friend, Jimmie
was also a Vietnam Veteran, store owner
{Early Tree Service and Blakely Floor Cov-
ering), farmer, former Blakely City Council-
man, and former Early County Sheriff.
Sheriff Murkerson was employed with the
Early County Sheriff’s Office for more than 34
years and he proved to be a strong and re-
vered leader. As the chief law enforcement of-
ficer, he was responsible for patrolling and re-
sponding to calls within the 516 square mile
area of Early County, where the population is
just over 10,000 people. During his tenure as
Sheriff, he spearheaded the consolidation of
various law enforcement services in the coun-
ty, which resulted in more efficient, resource-
ful, and proactive law enforcement for the citi-
zens of Early County.
Sheriff Murkerson embodied the definition of
a public servant through his strong leadership,
steadfast dedication, and unwavering compas-
sion. He served on the Georgia Peace Offi-
cers Standards and Training Council; the Gov-
ernor’s Children and Youth Coordinating
Council; the Criminal Justice Coordinating
Council; the Board of Directors of the ABAC
Police Academy; and the Executive Board of
the Georgia Partnership for Excellence in Edu-
cation. He also served as the 1997–98 Presi-
dent of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association and
the President of the Georgia Sheriffs’ Youth
Homes.
Sheriff Murkerson’s dedication to enforcing
the law and protecting the public earned him
several awards including the 2011 Georgia
Sheriffs’ Association’s Sheriff of the Year
award; the Georgia Sheriffs’ Association’s Dis-
tinguished Humanitarian Award (which he re-
ceived twice); and the Governor’s Peace Offi-
cers Award.
Maya Angelou once said, ‘‘A great soul
serves everyone all the time. A great soul
never dies.’’ Sheriff Murkerson is undoubtedly
great because of his distinguished service to
his community, devotion to his work, and the
compassion he showed for his friends and
loved ones.
He is survived by his wife, Sarah; children,
Tracie and Jimmie, Jr.; and a host of family,
friends, and loved ones who will miss him
deeply.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the more
than 730,000 people of Georgia’s Second
Congressional District in paying tribute to
former Early County Sheriff Jimmie Ray
Murkerson for his legacy of service to Early
County and the great state of Georgia. We ex-
tend our deepest sympathies to his family,
friends, and loved ones during this difficult
time of bereavement. Moreover, we pray that
they will be consoled and comforted by an
abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days,
weeks, and months ahead.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOSH HARDER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam Speaker,
I had the privilege of meeting with several of
my constituents in Washington, DC. Due to
that meeting, I missed a vote during the vote
series. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA on Roll Call No. 065.
f
RECOGNIZING MS. RITA VIDAURRI
EDEN
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of Ms. Rita Vidaurri
Eden, who passed away on January 16, 2019.
A true Latina musician and icon, Ms. Vidaurri
Eden hails from my hometown of San Antonio.
She is survived by her daughter, Linda
Palewich Alvarado; her sister Henrietta Rodri-
guez; a stepbrother, Ruben Vidaurri; four step-
sisters, Yvan, Rita, Sofia, and Ellena Vidaurri;
numerous nephews, nieces, and 5 generations
of grandchildren. She will be greatly missed.
Ms. Rita Vidaurri Eden was born in San An-
tonio on May 22, 1924 to Juan and Maria
Castillo Vidaurri. At an early age, Ms. Vidaurri
Eden showed a keen interest in the per-
forming arts and was encouraged most nota-
bly by her mother who passed when she was
a teenager.
Left with the care and responsibility of her
younger siblings, Ms. Vidaurri Eden persisted,
keeping her passion for singing alive while at-
tending night school by performing on Mexican
radio, competing in music contests, and work-
ing as an advertising model.
Ms. Vidaurri Eden was known for her
unrivaled performance in Ranchera, a tradi-
tional Mexican country music genre that often
features love ballads and odes to home. She
soon earned the nickname ‘‘La Calandria,’’ or
the ‘‘Lark’’ whose powerful voice resonated
throughout every venue where she performed.
By the late 1950s and at the height of her ca-
reer, Ms. Vidaurri Eden retired from the stage,
only later reviving her singing career at the
age of 80. In 2001, Ms. Vidaurri Eden along
with Beatriz Llamas, Blanca Rodriguez and
Janet Cortez, formed a group of elder
cantantes—referred to as ‘‘Las Tesoros del
Westside,’’ or the beloved ‘‘the Treasures of
the Westside.’’
Ms. Vidaurri Eden performed across Latin
America and the nation. She performed on
stage with Mexican artists such as Jorge
Negrete, Cantinflas, and sang alongside Nat
King Cole, Eydie Gorme, and Celia Cruz. She
continued to sing until the end of her life.
Madam Speaker, I stand with confidence
knowing that the passing of Ms. Rita Vidaurri
Eden does not mark the conclusion of her leg-
acy. Ms. Vidaurri Eden’s journey will be for-
ever carried by her timeless music, by fans,
and the countless aspiring singers who look to
her as a beacon of possibility.
Ms. Vidaurri Eden’s passion for music could
only be matched by her perseverance. Her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31JA8.004 E31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E121
January 31, 2019
legacy will forever be marked by countless
admirations and accolades. I am proud to call
‘‘La Calandria’’ a pillar in our San Antonio
community.
f
IN MEMORY OF MR. WILLIAM
‘‘W.T.’’ THOMAS HENRY, SR.
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor a loving husband, dedi-
cated father, doting grandfather, distinguished
educator, and committed servant to human-
kind, Mr. William ‘‘W.T.’’ Thomas Henry.
Sadly, W.T. passed away on Monday, January
28, 2019. His funeral will be held on Thursday,
January 31, 2019, at 2 p.m. at the First United
Methodist Church in Albany, Georgia. He
leaves behind a host of family and a legacy of
service that will never be forgotten.
William ‘‘W.T.’’ Thomas Henry, Sr. was born
on October 7, 1938, to the union of the late
Jeff and Ludie Gray Henry in Colquitt, Geor-
gia. He graduated from Miller County High
school in 1956, where his athletic prowess al-
lowed him to letter in several sports. W.T.
went on to attend Young Harris College and
Troy State University where he earned a
Bachelor’s degree in Education. Never one to
rest on his laurels, he went on to earn Mas-
ter’s degrees in Physical Education and Ad-
ministration Supervision from Florida State
University.
W.T. found his true calling and purpose in
life by working with our most precious re-
source, young people. His prodigious career in
education spanned 46 remarkable years in
both public and private schools. W.T. posi-
tively impacted the lives of students at Arling-
ton High School, Damascus High School, Mil-
ler County High School, and Albany Junior
High School. He taught math and coached
basketball, track, football, and basketball. W.T.
taught his athletes how to be successful on
the courts and athletic fields, but more impor-
tantly he taught them skills that would help
them to succeed in the game of life. W.T. left
the classroom and the athletic fields to con-
quer his next challenge, School Administra-
tion. He became the principal of Miller County
High School and blazed the trail for others by
becoming the founding headmaster of South-
west Georgia Academy in 1970.
He left his true love for a short time and
worked in the peanut industry. But, he quickly
realized this endeavor was not for him and re-
turned to education. He moved to Albany,
Georgia and became the Lower School Direc-
tor for Deerfield-Windsor School. Because he
excelled in this position, he became the Head-
master of Deerfield-Windsor School, retiring
after 20 years of extraordinary service in 2009.
His tentacles of service stretched far beyond
the schools at which he served with distinc-
tion. He was a former President of the Geor-
gia Independent Schools and he also served
on the Georgia State Board of Education, the
Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools, and the Georgia Accrediting Com-
mission.
Most importantly, W.T. was a man of God
and was guided by his faith. He was a faithful
member of the First United Methodist Church
and served on its Board of Directors.
W.T. loved his family and instilled in them
the values of faith in God, hard work, and a
commitment to serving their fellow man. He
had an infectious personality and never met a
stranger. He had a special gift of saying the
right thing to someone who was in distress at
just the right time.
W.T. Henry was a great man and accom-
plished many things in his life, but none of
these things would have been possible without
the love and support of his family. His legacy
lives on through his wife, Ruth; his children,
Lea, Bo, and Kristin; his grandchildren, and all
of those whose lives he touched.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the more
than 730,000 constituents of the Second Con-
gressional District of Georgia in saluting and
honoring the life of Mr. William ‘‘W.T.’’ Thomas
Henry for his commitment to young people
and humankind and in extending our deepest
condolences to Mr. Henry’s family during this
difficult time of bereavement. We pray that
they will be consoled and comforted by an
abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days,
weeks, and months ahead.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31JA8.007 E31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D103
Thursday, January 31, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S775–S816
Measures Introduced: Thirty-one bills and five res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 285–315,
and S. Res. 35–39. Pages S779–S801
Measures Passed:
National Tribal Colleges and Universities
Week: Senate agreed to S. Res. 37, designating the
week beginning February 3, 2019, as ‘‘National
Tribal Colleges and Universities Week’’. Page S815
National School Counseling Week: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 38, designating the week of February 4
through 8, 2019, as ‘‘National School Counseling
Week’’. Page S815
American Farm Bureau Federation 100th An-
niversary: Senate agreed to S. Res. 39, recognizing
the 100th anniversary of the American Farm Bureau
Federation and celebrating the long history of the
American Farm Bureau Federation representing the
farmers of the United States. Page S815
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate continued consider-
ation of S. 1, to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel, to reau-
thorize the United States-Jordan Defense Coopera-
tion Act of 2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter
of the Syrian people, taking action on the following
amendment proposed thereto: Pages S776–77, S777–94
Pending:
McConnell Amendment No. 65, to express the
sense of the Senate that the United States faces con-
tinuing threats from terrorist groups operating in
Syria and Afghanistan and that the precipitous with-
drawal of United States forces from either country
could put at risk hard-won gains and United States
national security. Page S776
Menendez Amendment No. 96 (to McConnell
Amendment No. 65), to clarify that the amendment
shall not be construed as a declaration of war or an
authorization of the use of military force. Page S789
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, and
pursuant to the unanimous-consent agreement of
Thursday, January 31, 2019, a vote on cloture will
occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, February 4, 2019.
Pages S776–77
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 68 yeas to 23 nays (Vote No. 13), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on McConnell Amendment
No. 65 (listed above). Page S789
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
February 4, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
bill; that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, the post-cloture time on McConnell Amend-
ment No. 65 expire, and the cloture motions filed
on Thursday, January 31, 2019, ripen at 5:30 p.m.,
on Monday, February 4, 2019; and that the filing
deadline for the cloture motion with respect to the
bill be at 4:00 p.m., on Monday, February 4, 2019,
for first-degree amendments. Page S815
Natural Resources Management Act—Cloture:
Senate began consideration of the motion to proceed
to consideration of S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United States.
Page S777
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur upon disposition of S. 1, to make im-
provements to certain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt
the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people.
Page S777
Appointments:
British-American Interparliamentary Group
Conference: The Chair, on behalf of the President
pro tempore, and upon the recommendation of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JA9.REC D31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D104 January 31, 2019
Democratic Leader, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2761, ap-
pointed the following Senator as Vice Chairman of
the Senate Delegation to the British-American Inter-
parliamentary Group Conference during the 116th
Congress: Senator Leahy. Page S815
British-American Interparliamentary Group
Conference: The Chair, on behalf of the President
pro tempore, and upon the recommendation of the
Majority Leader, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2761, ap-
pointed the following Senator as Chairman of the
Senate Delegation to the British-American Inter-
parliamentary Group Conference during the 116th
Congress: Senator Boozman. Page S815
Messages From the House: Page S798
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S794, S798
Executive Communications: Pages S798–99
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S801–02
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S802–12
Additional Statements: Pages S794–98
Amendments Submitted: Pages S812–15
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—13) Page S789
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:36 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, Feb-
ruary 4, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
pages S815–16.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments for the 116th Congress:
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations: Senators
Portman (Chair), Paul, Lankford, Romney, Hawley,
Carper, Hassan, Harris, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emer-
gency Management: Senators Paul (Chair), Scott (FL),
Enzi, Hawley, Hassan, Harris, and Sinema.
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Man-
agement: Senators Lankford (Chair), Portman, Rom-
ney, Scott (FL), Enzi, Sinema, Carper, and Rosen.
Senators Johnson and Peters are ex-officio members of
each subcommittee.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 12 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 934–945, and 1 resolution, H. Res.
94, were introduced. Pages H1341–42
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1342–43
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 12:01 p.m.
Program for Monday: House will meet in Pro
Forma session at 11:30 a.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D85)
S. 24, to provide for the compensation of Federal
and other government employees affected by lapses
in appropriations. Signed on January 16, 2019.
(Public Law 116–1)
H.R. 251, to extend by 15 months the Chemical
Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program of the
Department of Homeland Security. Signed on Janu-
ary 18, 2019. (Public Law 116–2)
H.R. 259, to extend the Medicaid Money Follows
the Person Rebalancing demonstration, to extend
protection for Medicaid recipients of home and com-
munity-based services against spousal impoverish-
ment. Signed on January 24, 2019. (Public Law
116–3)
H.R. 430, to extend the program of block grants
to States for temporary assistance for needy families
and related programs through June 30, 2019. Signed
on January 24, 2019. (Public Law 116–4)
H.J. Res. 28, making further continuing appro-
priations for fiscal year 2019. Signed on January 25,
2019. (Public Law 116–5)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JA9.REC D31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D105
January 31, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
FEBRUARY 4, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JA9.REC D31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D106 January 31, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, February 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of S. 1, Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act, with votes on or in relation to amendments to
the bill, and on the motion to invoke cloture on the bill
at 5:30 p.m. The filing deadline for first-degree amend-
ments to the bill is at 4 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11:30 a.m., Monday, February 4
House Chamber
Program for Monday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11:30 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E119, E120, E121
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E120
Costa, Jim, Calif., E120
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E119
Graves, Sam, Mo., E119
Harder, Josh, Calif., E120
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Feb 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D31JA9.REC D31JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
