Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7907
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 No. 155
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. BEATTY).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
September 25, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JOYCE
BEATTY to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING CYRUS G. WILEY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
ninth President of Savannah State
University, Mr. Cyrus G. Wiley.
At the time called the Georgia State
Industrial College for Colored Youths,
Mr. Wiley made tremendous strides
forward for the oldest public histori-
cally Black college in the State of
Georgia.
He started his term in 1921 and was
the first alumnus to become president
of the school. In that same year, he al-
lowed women to attend for the first
time and he transitioned the college
out of its role providing high school
programs and into a 4 year, degree-
granting institution.
Nearly 100 years later, the school re-
mains a vital part of the Savannah
community. They have earned patents
in battling Alzheimer’s and ALS, built
new science and technology buildings,
and purchased new property for a new
marine lab.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank ev-
eryone at Savannah State University,
especially President Kimberly Ballard-
Washington, for following in Mr.
Wiley’s footsteps to continue breaking
barriers, their commitment to the Sa-
vannah community, and for providing a
great education for the students.
WORLD PHARMACISTS’ DAY 2019
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize
World Pharmacists’ Day 2019 being
celebrated today. I am proud that we
have a day like this for people all over
the world to remember the important
role that pharmacists play in keeping
all of us and our loved ones healthy.
There are currently over 2 million
practicing pharmacists around the
world, but in each nation, pharmacists
are combating unique problems. For
some countries pharmacists are at a se-
vere shortage.
In the United States, pharmacists
have been thrown into the front lines
of a critical issue: the opioid epidemic.
Currently, more than 115 people die
every day from opioid addictions, and
pharmacists will play an integral role
in bringing this number all the way
down to zero.
Madam Speaker, I encourage every-
one to get to know their pharmacists
and to thank them for the work that
they do.
As the only pharmacist currently
serving in Congress, I thank all our
pharmacists around the world.
CONGRATULATING EMD PERFORMANCE
MATERIALS ON THEIR 40TH ANNIVERSARY
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
40th anniversary of EMD Performance
Material’s Savannah location.
I am so proud of the work this com-
pany has done over the last 40 years,
providing nearly 140 jobs for citizens in
the First Congressional District of
Georgia.
More than just jobs alone, EMD
brings a prestige to our area that
comes along with its brand name.
At the Savannah location specifi-
cally, they manufacture ground-
breaking liquid crystals that are large-
ly responsible for advancing razor
sharp margins in smartphones, laptops,
flat-screen TVs, and more.
EMD’s success is a great example of
why the State of Georgia was named as
the top State to do business for the
sixth year in a row. And Savannah
itself has a strategic location with its
connection to a major seaport and
interstates.
Madam Speaker, I thank EMD for
their work in our area, and I congratu-
late them on their anniversary. I hope
that we will have another 40 years of
working together.
RECOGNIZING GEORGIA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
Georgia Army National Guard, whose
last unit is coming home this month
from Afghanistan.
Stationed at Fort Stewart in the
First Congressional District of Geor-
gia, the 177th Brigade Engineer Bat-
talion is the only unmanned aerial ve-
hicle unit in the entire Georgia Na-
tional Guard.
Because of that expertise, they re-
mained in Afghanistan longer than
other units, and their high quality of
work has not gone unnoticed.
Upon returning home, they will be
working in a brand-new facility at Fort
Stewart for the first time. I am proud
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.000 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7908 September 25, 2019
to have this group located in the First
Congressional District of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I thank them for
their service to our country, and I wel-
come them home.
f
WE HAVE BEEN VINDICATED
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise, because I love my
country.
I rise today, Madam Speaker, to
thank the Speaker of the House for
standing up for this country, advancing
the cause of justice, and taking on the
challenge to protect our Nation, when
it is obvious that national security is
of great concern.
I rise because there were persons who
made yesterday possible. There are
some who say that yesterday was a tip-
ping point, others say that things hap-
pened that were the equivalent of a
straw that broke the camel’s back as it
relates to impeachment, but I say that
yesterday was a seminal moment in
time that has the potential to impact
the rest of our time.
I say that yesterday was a moment of
truth, and I say that there were people
who made yesterday possible.
I would like to read a statement into
the RECORD that will address many of
the people, not all, but many of the
people who made yesterday possible.
My statement reads: ‘‘On behalf of
people of goodwill, I thank the first 58
who voted to move Articles of Im-
peachment on November 6, 2017, the
historic 66 who voted to move Articles
of Impeachment on January 19, 2018,
and the noble 95 who voted to move Ar-
ticles of Impeachment on July 17, 2019.
For their tireless and progressive ef-
forts, I would also like to thank By the
People; Center for Popular Democracy;
Citizens Impeachment Coalition; Com-
mon Cause; Courage Campaign;
CREDO; CREW; D.C. Action Lab; De-
mocracy for America; Free Speech for
People; Indivisible; Lawyers for Good
Government; Mainers For Accountable
Leadership; March for Truth; March for
Truth—Boston; MoveOn; National As-
sociation for the Advancement of Col-
ored People, NAACP; Need to Impeach;
NextGen America; Our Revolution;
Popular Democracy; Progressive Demo-
crats of America; Revolving Door
Project; Social Security Works; Stand
Up America; and Women’s March.
With nearly 200 Members of the
House of Representatives favoring im-
peachment inquiry, we have been vindi-
cated. However, our approach is not
one that has ended as of yesterday. We
need 218 to vote for impeachment.
There is more to be done.
f
PARKRIDGE PREGNANCY CENTER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the good people
at Parkridge Pregnancy Medical Clinic
in Lubbock, Texas.
Parkridge, a nonprofit pregnancy
center, is celebrating 26 years of pro-
viding compassionate care to mothers
throughout their pregnancies, and
often in the most difficult of cir-
cumstances.
By providing ultrasounds, medical
services, material assistance, and even
ministering to mothers’ deeper emo-
tional and spiritual needs, the people
at Parkridge are truly and literally
saving lives.
You see, Madam Speaker, they be-
lieve, like I do, that all life is a gift
from God. They believe in the words
etched into our Declaration of Inde-
pendence, our founding principle and
fundamental belief that all of us are
created equally by God and endowed by
our creator with the right to life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness.
But for nearly 50 years now, we have
fallen short of that national ethic.
Ever since the Supreme Court erred in
Roe v. Wade, we have failed to protect
the sacred right for the most vulner-
able among us, rejecting the notion
that life at every stage is equally valu-
able, equally precious, not only in light
of the Constitution, but in the eyes of
God.
Since then, over 60 million lives have
been terminated through the practice
of abortion in these United States. And
yet even in the shadow of this dark-
ness, we can see rays of hope shining
through.
Because of places like Parkridge, I
believe the tide is finally turning, and
in the direction of life. All across our
country, the growing momentum for a
culture of life is palpable.
Last week, we learned that the abor-
tion rate in America has dropped to its
lowest level at any point since 1973 and
Roe v. Wade.
We have seen States throughout the
country taking bold action to defend
the inherent dignity of every human
life, especially those who can’t speak
up for themselves.
I am proud to have supported every
single pro-life measure considered in
this Chamber, from the Heartbeat Pro-
tection Act, to the pain-capable protec-
tions, to defunding Planned Parent-
hood, to the recent born-alive protec-
tion legislation.
I stand behind our President 100 per-
cent in his efforts to reshape the courts
so that judges adhere to the Constitu-
tion and to the independent and inter-
pretive role that they are supposed to
play, rather than legislating from the
bench and imposing their policy pref-
erences on the American people.
This is one of the most important
and certainly lasting legacies of this
President, and I am proud to say and
excited to say the Senate has recently
confirmed President Trump’s 150th ju-
dicial nominee.
But I also recognize that in order to
build a lasting culture of life, we are
going to need to do more than just
change laws. We are going to have to
change hearts.
In the debate over abortion, the late
Pennsylvania Governor Bob Casey said:
The real question is not when life begins,
but when love begins.
For 26 years now, the people of
Parkridge Pregnancy Center have been
coming alongside these young mothers
not in judgment, but in joy, not in con-
demnation, but to comfort, praying
with them, loving them, and minis-
tering to them and meeting their deep-
est needs in their darkest hours.
Thanks to the good and godly work
that they are doing, along with count-
less organizations like them across
America, I hope, pray, and I believe
that we will soon see a day in our coun-
try when every child is loved and every
life, born or unborn, is celebrated,
cherished, and protected.
Madam Speaker, may God bless the
Parkridge family, may He bless their
mission to protect life and promote
love, all to the praise of God, the au-
thor of both life and love.
Go west Texas.
Madam Speaker, may I inquire how
much time I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Texas has 11⁄4 minutes re-
maining.
WE SHOULD BE MORE RESPONSIBLE IN CARRYING
OUT OUR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTIES
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
would like to say that I feel like it is
incredibly irresponsible and premature
and careless for this body, led by our
Speaker and the Democratic Party, to
rush to this conclusion and allege that
our President has committed high
crimes.
I don’t believe this is under the aus-
pices of pursuit of justice and truth. I
think it is placating a certain group in
the Democratic Party.
I think this is more of the bloodlust
for impeaching our President, not be-
cause of high crimes, but because they
hate him, they hate his personality,
they hate his policies, but that is no
justification.
We are better than that as a country.
We should be more responsible in how
we faithfully carry out our constitu-
tional duties.
So I look forward to reading the
transcript. I look forward to getting
the facts.
Republican or Democrat, Madam
Speaker, we ought to look at the facts
and we ought to be very judicious and
careful and certainly responsible when
wielding our constitutional oversight,
and certainly that provision of im-
peachment.
So that is what I am going to do on
behalf of the good people of west Texas
and my beloved countrymen across the
United States.
f
b 1015
TRIBUTE TO THE LIFE AND
LEGACY OF JUANITA ABERNATHY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.002 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7909
September 25, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, today, I rise to honor the re-
markable life and legacy of Mrs. Jua-
nita Abernathy, a selfless leader in the
struggle for civil rights whose direc-
tion and tireless engagement was an
integral part in the movement of civil
rights and voting rights in America.
She, sadly, passed earlier this month.
From the Montgomery bus boycott
to the marches from Selma to Mont-
gomery and onward to Washington,
D.C., and beyond, Mrs. Abernathy
played a key role in our Nation’s
proudest instance of civic engagement.
She fought boldly alongside her hus-
band, Reverend Dr. Ralph Abernathy,
and her dear friends and fellow archi-
tects of the movement, Reverend Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., and Mrs.
Coretta Scott King.
While many male leaders of the civil
rights movement have rightfully be-
come household names, the women of
the movement, whose struggles and
sacrifices were equal and whose par-
ticipation was necessary, have not en-
joyed the same recognition. Mrs. Jua-
nita Abernathy was a brilliant, coura-
geous leader in her own right, and
today, we recognize her remarkable
and distinct contributions.
Mrs. Abernathy was born on Decem-
ber 1, 1931, in Uniontown, Alabama. She
was the youngest of eight children born
to Alexander and Ella Gilmore Jones.
In the ninth grade, she met her future
husband, Reverend Dr. Ralph Aber-
nathy, who wrote in his memoir that
he was impressed by her audacious
spirit and her inherent dignity. In 1952,
after Mrs. Abernathy finished her B.S.
in business education at Tennessee
State University, she and Dr. Ralph
Abernathy were married.
Mrs. and Reverend Abernathy moved
to Montgomery, Alabama, where she
became the secretary for the Alabama
chapter of the NAACP and taught high
school courses on business education
while Reverend Abernathy became the
pastor of the First Baptist Church on
Ripley Street.
In 1955, around the family dining
room table, Mrs. Abernathy wrote a
business plan for the Montgomery bus
boycott, a plan that later served as a
blueprint for the civil rights move-
ment. Meant to last only 1 day, the
Montgomery bus boycott went on for
381 days, eventually leading to the
courts desegregating public transit.
In retaliation to the success of the
Montgomery bus boycott, the Aber-
nathy home was bombed. Reverend
Abernathy was in Atlanta at the time,
but it was said that Mrs. Abernathy
and her children only survived because
the bomb landed off by 2 feet.
Over the years, Mrs. Abernathy en-
dured terror, harassment, and unbri-
dled hatred from white supremacists in
her community and beyond. Yet, in the
face of unimaginable threats, she
maintained her innate dignity and
bravery.
In 1961, Mrs. Abernathy and her hus-
band moved to Atlanta, Georgia, where
she worked closely with the King fam-
ily to integrate Atlanta’s public
schools.
At this same time, understanding the
link between race and economic in-
equality in this country, Mrs. Aber-
nathy fought to establish a national
food stamp program for low-income
families and a national free meal pro-
gram for public schoolchildren.
A true servant leader, Mrs.
Abernathy’s brilliant mind, full heart,
and resilient spirit should remind all of
us of what constitutes a full and won-
derful life.
On a personal note, I was honored to
get to know Mrs. Abernathy during her
many pilgrimages to my hometown of
Selma, Alabama, for the annual com-
memoration of Bloody Sunday and the
Selma to Montgomery marches.
She was a powerful voice for change
and a proud product of Alabama’s
Black Belt who passionately protected
the legacy of her husband and their
lifelong work together to advance civil
rights.
Mrs. Abernathy graciously encour-
aged me to run for Congress and hon-
ored me with her presence in my home-
town of Selma on election night when
I won in November 2010. I saw in her
face that night the pride she felt wit-
nessing the election of Alabama’s first
Black Congresswoman. I prevailed be-
cause of her personal courage and sac-
rifice that paved the way for future
generations of Black children like me
to succeed.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in paying tribute and honor
to Alabama native Mrs. Juanita Jones
Abernathy on the passing of this civil
rights icon and true American heroine,
whose tremendous efforts helped propel
our Nation toward a more perfect
Union.
f
SPEAKER’S ACTIONS HAVE
EMBARRASSED CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. GAETZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, the
transcript has now been released of the
phone conversation between President
Trump and President Zelensky.
The evidence is clear, unfortunately,
that the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives has been functionally
catfished into a politically fatal im-
peachment proceeding based on ru-
mors, based on faulty evidence, and
based on a bloodlust for the President,
politically, that does not serve our Na-
tion well.
Let me give you the high points.
There is no quid pro quo between Presi-
dent Trump and President Zelensky for
anything, much less military aid.
There is no eight times a reference to
Joe Biden. I think The Wall Street
Journal will have a good deal of re-
tracting to do today. In fact, President
Zelensky, himself, identifies the root-
ing out of corruption as the reason for
his election.
Early on in the conversation between
President Trump and President
Zelensky, President Zelensky says: We,
here in Ukraine, are trying to drain the
swamp much in the way you are work-
ing to drain the swamp in the United
States of America.
This wasn’t a call about leverage.
This wasn’t a call about threats. This
was a mutually appreciative and mutu-
ally laudatory call between two leaders
who are trying to clean up some of the
garbage in their respective countries
that has polluted politics.
Now, the President does ask for a
favor from President Zelensky, but the
favor is on behalf of our Nation. The
favor we seek is cooperation between
the Zelensky government and Attorney
General Bill Barr as we work to deter-
mine what activities in Ukraine may
have been in any way involved in the
2016—not 2020, but 2016—efforts to
interfere with the United States elec-
tion.
The President even references
CrowdStrike, attempting to get to the
bottom of these improper actions,
which, again, may have emanated from
Ukraine. John Solomon with The Hill
has a great deal of reporting on that
very question.
Zelensky ran against corruption.
Thus, it would be only appropriate
that, in a conversation about that elec-
tion victory, they would discuss and
reference what are, obviously, mutual
goals between the United States and
Ukraine to have the world safer for de-
mocracy.
The President also mentions Mayor
Rudy Giuliani. Let me be clear about
this: Mayor Giuliani has every right to
go to Ukraine to try to ascertain
whether or not activities in that coun-
try were harming his client as a result
of the corrupt connections that may
have existed between the DNC and
some elements in Ukraine.
I feel like we have been here before.
House Democrats told us it was all
about collusion. We had to wait for the
Mueller report. Well, when the Mueller
report falls flat on collusion, then it is
all about obstruction of justice. Until
Robert Mueller testifies and that falls
flat, then it is all about abuse of power.
Until the Democrats go to court and
are unable to make the case in court
that there has been an abuse of power.
Now, lo and behold, it is all about
Ukraine.
Do you know what? I saw this movie
as it related to Russia. I didn’t like it
very much, and I doubt I am going to
enjoy the cheap Ukrainian knockoff.
The Speaker has embraced these con-
cerns. I fear that her embrace of im-
peachment does great damage to the
House of Representatives. There may
be a time where we have to solemnly
exercise our impeachment powers be-
cause there is true crime or corruption,
and the Speaker’s actions have embar-
rassed the United States Congress and
harm our entire country.
President Zelensky, in this call, indi-
cates that he will conduct an investiga-
tion into corruption. It is a promise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.005 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7910 September 25, 2019
not only that he made to President
Trump but that he made to his own
citizens. In that promise, President
Zelensky says that any investigation
will be both open and candid, open and
candid investigations of corruption of
election meddling. I sure would like to
see that level of candidness and open-
ness in our House of Representatives.
Certainly, my greatest hope is that
the Attorney General’s investigation
into the corrupt origins of the efforts
to smear the President of the United
States will be exposed and those re-
sponsible will go to jail.
That is how we restore honor to this
House. That is how we solve and heal
some of the great wounds that were in-
flicted on this body by the Speaker
yesterday. Maybe next time the radical
left will wait for the facts before en-
gaging in a reflexive, fact-free im-
peachment.
f
SUPPORT UKRAINIAN PEOPLE BY
ROOTING OUT CORRUPTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, as co-
chair of the House Congressional
Ukrainian Caucus, I rise to provide
some background on why the conversa-
tions between President Donald Trump
and the newly elected President of
Ukraine, President Volodymyr
Zelensky, are so vitally important to
liberty and our Nation’s national secu-
rity.
There is no more important strategic
alliance for liberty and with our mili-
tary than America’s membership with
European allies in NATO, our depend-
able transatlantic allies who stood at
our side through so many battles for
the values we share. The blood lands of
Europe directly influence the very
founding of our Republic, our funda-
mental ideals of democracy. NATO,
today, stands ready every hour of every
day to defend our liberty.
Ukraine, today, is the scrimmage
line for liberty for its defense on the
European Continent. Thus, when a U.S.
President holds back military assist-
ance to Ukraine through NATO and
other instrumentalities, Congress must
insist on transparency on any con-
versations that relate to our coopera-
tion with the nation of Ukraine.
Please let me remind, after the col-
lapse of communist Russia in 1991, offi-
cially known as the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Ukraine became a
free nation. At least it had a chance to
be. Ukraine had been occupied for all of
modern history by Russia and began its
jagged path forward to the free world,
a path that has been tortuous and
fraught with danger and setbacks.
It will be a permanent blot on Amer-
ican history that certain Americans,
including President Trump’s campaign
manager, Paul Manafort, and several
other Trump operatives were actually
involved in supporting the corrupt pro-
Russian political operatives in Ukraine
and doing it to earn money, millions
and millions of dollars from Kremlin
allies. What an abomination to liberty.
Since Ukraine’s Euromaidan Revolu-
tion of Dignity 5 years ago, the Ukrain-
ian people have bravely demonstrated
their resolute commitment to their na-
tion’s democratic future.
The latest example is the recent his-
toric Presidential and parliamentary
elections in Ukraine, which inter-
national observers lauded as free and
fair. What progress.
Ukraine has managed to make crit-
ical reforms, despite the immense pres-
sure of Russia’s illegal invasion of
Ukraine in which 13,000 poorly
equipped Ukrainian troops and many
civilians who were in the pathway lost
their lives; 30,000 have been injured;
and 1.5 million Ukrainians have been
dispossessed of their properties and are
displaced.
Tragically, Ukraine is at war and
must fight a two-front war: one against
Russia and one against the enemy from
within, the scourge of corruption aided
by Kremlin allies every minute of
every day.
While Ukraine has sought to shake
off the vestiges of Soviet repression,
Ukraine’s oligarch class has subverted
this progress in order to steal and plun-
der from the people of that nation to
advance their own sick, insatiable, and
corrupt moneyed interests.
In fact, it might surprise people to
hear that, in the State of Ohio, the
Ukrainian oligarch who owned the tele-
vision station that made the current
President of Ukraine famous is the
largest commercial real estate owner
in Cleveland, Ohio. With a net worth of
over $1.2 billion, Ihor Kolomoisky is
one of the richest oligarchs in Ukraine.
But he travels between Ukraine, Cy-
prus, Israel, and here. His own son was
on the basketball team at Cleveland
State University.
But this oligarch ran the show, serv-
ant of the people, who propelled Presi-
dent Zelensky to stardom. And so the
question for history is: Will President
Zelensky be his own man, or will he be
beholden to oligarchs? Will he stand for
liberty, and will the people of this
country and this House, who are the
Representatives, stand for liberty
against repression?
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD material related to my re-
marks this morning.
[From Clevescene, June 11, 2019]
HOW UKRAINIAN OLIGARCHS SECRETLY BECAME
THE LARGEST REAL ESTATE OWNERS IN
DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND
(By Sam Allard)
In an explosive legal complaint filed last
month in Delaware, attorneys for a major
Ukrainian bank alleged that two oligarchs
who founded the bank and controlled it from
2006 to 2016 laundered hundreds of millions of
dollars in fraudulent corporate loans to pur-
chase assets in the United States and un-
justly enrich themselves and their associ-
ates.
Dubbed the ‘‘Optima Schemes’’ in the 104-
page document, these ‘‘brazen fraudulent
schemes’’ were successful, among other
things, in making the oligarchs and their co-
defendants the largest commercial real es-
tate holders in Cleveland.
With money siphoned from public bonds
and 20 million private Ukrainian citizens
who’d opened accounts with PrivatBank, the
oligarchs Igor Kolomoisky and Gennadiy
Bogolyubov doled out corporate loans to
shell companies that they controlled. They
used PrivatBank ‘‘as their own personal
piggy bank,’’ in the words of the complaint.
Those loans were then laundered in mul-
tiple digital transactions, sent through doz-
ens of other shell companies that had been
created exclusively for the purpose of laun-
dering. These accounts were managed by co-
conspirators at PrivatBank’s branch in Cy-
prus.
The true origin of the money thus con-
cealed, funds were then shipped to LLCs in
Delaware (hence the legal filing there).
Those LLCs—‘‘One Cleveland Center, LLC,’’
to take just one example—were used to ac-
quire properties and metalworking facilities
in the U.S. Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov are
mineral magnates and own mining factories
and metalworking plants in Ukraine.
The men on the ground in the United
States, according to the complaint, were a
Miami-based trio: Mordechai ‘‘Motti’’ Korf,
his brother-in-law Chaim Schochet, and
Uriel Laber. These three men managed the
‘‘Optima’’ companies: Optima International,
Optima Ventures and Optima Acquisitions,
all of which were created and ultimately
controlled by Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov.
‘‘Optima Ventures’’ should be a familiar
local name. It was the company, launched in
2007, used to acquire properties in the U.S.
for Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov. The major-
ity of these properties were in Cleveland.
Chaim Schochet was Optima’s ‘‘front man’’
in Northeast Ohio. He told the Plain Dealer
in 2012 that his local goals were twofold:
‘‘making money for investors betting on the
upside of a Midwestern city, and contrib-
uting to the betterment of a downtown that
more high-profile buyers ha[d] passed by.’’
But his investors’ funds were ill-gotten, ac-
cording to the complaint, proceeds from
‘‘massive, systematic and fraudulent loan
misappropriation and recycling schemes. (In
the 2012 PD piece referenced above, Schochet
was reportedly ‘‘circumspect about dis-
cussing how [Optima Ventures] is structured
or who the major investors are.’’)
The loan recycling schemes were function-
ally identical to a ponzi scheme, except in-
stead of paying purported profits to early in-
vestors with funds from more recent inves-
tors, the Ukrainian oligarchs and their cro-
nies within PrivatBank paid off early fraudu-
lent corporate loans with money from new
fraudulent corporate loans.
‘‘On paper, this appeared to be a repay-
ment,’’ the complaint explains. ‘‘But in re-
ality, it was a sham and fraud, as
PrivatBank was repaying itself and increas-
ing its outstanding liabilities in the process.
This process was carried out over and over
again, over a period of many years.’’
In December 2016, the Ukrainian state was
forced to nationalize PrivatBank as a result
of the oligarchs’ conduct. The state injected
more than $5.5 billion into the bank to pre-
vent its collapse, and ‘‘preserve the stability
of the [Ukrainian] financial system.’’ In 2018,
the bank reverted to private ownership.
The complaint alleges that Korf, Schochet
and Laber were in on the racket, aware of
the systematic corruption because they were
under direct supervision from Kolomoisky
and Bogolyubov (or their trusted lieutenant
inside PrivatBank, Timur Novikov), and be-
cause they were enriched in the process.
Korf, Schochet and Laber received ‘‘substan-
tial financial remuneration,’’ according to
the complaint, which they used to acquire
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.006 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7911
September 25, 2019
millions of dollars worth of property in Flor-
ida.
Using the laundered loan proceeds, Optima
acquired the following Cleveland buildings:
One Cleveland Center: 1375 E. 9th St. Ac-
quired for $86.3 million in May, 2008.
55 Public Square. Acquired for $34 million
in July, 2008.
Huntington Building: 925 Euclid Ave. Ac-
quired for $18.5 million in June, 2010.
AECOM/Penton Media Building: 1300 E. 9th
St. Acquired for $46.5 million in August, 2010.
Crowne Plaza Building: 777 St. Clair Ave.
Acquired in a joint venture with Denver-
based Sage Hospitality Group.
Here’s an example of exactly how the prop-
erties were acquired, via the complaint:
On April 29 and 30, 2008 . . . two Ukrainian
[metal plants] owned or controlled by
[Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov] drew down $2.7
million and $4.3 million in loan proceeds
from PrivatBank Ukraine. The purpose of
the loans was ‘‘financing of current business
activities of the entity.’’ On April 30, 2008,
Bocatoro Enterprises Ltd. (‘‘Bocatoro Enter-
prises’’), a Cypriot entity owned or con-
trolled by [Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov]
drew down $40 million in loan proceeds from
PrivatBank Cyprus for ‘‘replenishment of
floating assets for payments according to
contracts, including purchase of shares.’’
However, the loan proceeds were not used
for their stated purposes. Instead, the loan
proceeds were combined with funds from
other sources linked to [Kolomoisky and
Bogolyubov] and laundered in forty-two
transactions through fifteen Laundering Ac-
counts, including the accounts of Defendant
Kolomoisky’s Divot Enterprises, Ralkon
Commercial, and Pavanti Enterprises, as
well as Defendant Bogolyubov’s Bonique, and
[K&B’s] Blisont Capital and Brotstone ac-
counts.
On information and belief, [K&B] and their
co-conspirators used Pavanti Enterprises to
misappropriate and transfer a combined $36.1
million into the U.S. to the Multi-State
Title Agency Ltd. to fund the acquisition of
One Cleveland [Center] through Optima One
Cleveland Center LLC for Optima Ventures.
At its height, Optima Ventures controlled
2.8 million square feet of downtown Cleve-
land commercial real estate. This was a larg-
er footprint than even Forest City Enter-
prises at the time.
In recent years, Optima has been selling off
its Cleveland properties, most of which have
fallen into disrepair and suffer from high va-
cancy rates.
The AECOM building, for example, which
Optima acquired in $46.5 million in 2010, was
sold to New-Jersey based Rugy Realty last
summer for $38 million. When Optima bought
AECOM (the former Penton Media Building),
it was 90-percent occupied. But when Rugby
purchased it last year, it had dropped to only
57-percent occupancy and was in need of sig-
nificant renovations.
‘‘We’ll fully renovate the lobby so it fits
the 21st century and doesn’t look like the
1980s,’’ Rugby principal Robert Ades said at
the time of purchase. Rugby’s plans also in-
cluded updating the elevators, the mechan-
ical components of which reportedly dated
back to 1972.
The Huntington Building (The 925 Build-
ing) was sold to Frank Sinito’s Millennia
Companies last year for $40 million. A full
overhaul of the building was projected to
cost $300 million. The property was charac-
terized by the PD at the time of sale as a
‘‘gaping hole in the heart of a revitalizing
downtown.’’
A situation of disrepair and vacancy can
also be found at 55 Public Square, the only
building other than One Cleveland Center
that remains in Optima’s local ownership
portfolio.
A sale was in the works with K&D develop-
ment last year, but K&D pulled out, calling
the project ‘‘unworkable.’’ Though Optima
had purchased it for $34 million in 2008, it
was appraised for only about $20 million last
year. The Plain Dealer reported that the
building was ‘‘in dire need of a makeover’’
and that ‘‘only a smattering’’ of businesses
occupied the 2nd through 11th floors of the
22-story structure. The John Q Steakhouse
space on the ground floor has been vacant for
years.
Optima retains a management stake in
what is now the downtown Westin Hotel (for-
merly the Crowne Plaza) and owns One
Cleveland Center, which it refinanced in 2010.
Optima Management Group, the manage-
ment company affiliated with Optima Ven-
tures, also works out of One Cleveland Cen-
ter.
Scene spoke with a representative there by
phone, who asked that questions for Chaim
Schochet about the so-called ‘‘Optima
Schemes’’ be submitted via email. Shochet
provided the following via Optima Manage-
ment Group late Tuesday afternoon:
The allegations in this lawsuit—part of an
orchestrated political attack by a Ukrainian
bank against investors in our thriving busi-
nesses—are false, defamatory and utterly
without merit. We intend not only to contest
but to disprove these reckless allegations,
and to demonstrate that they are part of a
smear campaign driven by a Ukrainian polit-
ical agenda that we have nothing to do with.
We are immensely proud of our extensive
track record building a vibrant real estate
portfolio in Cleveland, and we will not let a
frivolous lawsuit tarnish our hard-earned
reputation or distract us from our mission to
continue to serve the interests of the Cleve-
land community.
Filed on behalf of the current PrivatBank
shareholders, the Delaware complaint seeks
damages which could include all of Optima’s
U.S. assets. Those include properties in Dal-
las and Louisville and metallurgical assets
in addition to the Cleveland portfolio.
Among the metallurgical assets that Optima
Acquisitions acquired was a steelmaking
plant in Warren, Ohio, called Warren Steel
Holdings LLC. Warren Steel shuttered per-
manently in 2016 and laid off 162 workers due
to ‘‘unforeseeable business circumstances.’’
Kolomoisky and Bogolyubov are now back
in Ukraine after having fled from their resi-
dences in Switzerland to Israel in 2018. Both
oligarchs reportedly have Ukrainian, Israeli
and Cypriot citizenship.
The Daily Beast reported in April that
Kolomoisky is under FBI investigation and
that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the North-
ern District of Ohio was involved in a wide-
ranging probe. Kolomoisky’s lawyer said
that his client ‘‘categorically denied’’ laun-
dering any money into the United States.
Kolomoisky has reportedly returned to
Ukraine, however, with the tacit protection
of new president Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a co-
median who played the Ukrainian President
on the TV show Servant of the People (now
streaming on Netflix).
That show, immensely popular in Ukraine,
aired on a network owned by Kolomoisky.
f
b 1030
LEGALIZE BANKS WORKING WITH
CANNABIS-RELATED BUSINESSES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Oklahoma (Ms. KENDRA S. HORN) for 5
minutes.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to talk
about H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking
Act. Later today, we will consider this
important piece of right-sized, prag-
matic legislation that tackles prob-
lems facing our communities.
H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking Act, is
a bipartisan bill that confronts a prob-
lem that has arisen from the conflict
between State and Federal law and is
currently endangering communities, as
well as inhibiting small businesses
from growing.
Currently, 33 States, including my
home State of Oklahoma, have passed
some form of legalized cannabis. How-
ever, due to the schedule I status in
Federal law, it is illegal for banks
across this country to work with can-
nabis and cannabis-related businesses,
even in States where it has been legal-
ized.
This prevents businesses from using
banks to deposit their revenue, pay
their bills, finance capital improve-
ment projects, and makes it chal-
lenging for them to file their taxes.
This has also created a serious safety
hazard for cannabis and cannabis-re-
lated businesses by forcing them to
hold on to large amounts of cash on
their premises and increases the likeli-
hood of tax evasion, which has been
historically prevalent among cash-only
businesses.
The SAFE Banking Act resolves
these issues by creating a legal path-
way for banks to serve cannabis and
cannabis-related businesses without
fear of Federal sanctions.
Importantly, this bill defends States’
rights by allowing banks in States
where cannabis is legal to serve these
businesses, but does not force banks to
serve them and does not force it in
States where it is illegal.
Last year, Oklahoma legalized med-
ical cannabis, and, since then, Okla-
homa’s industry has become one of the
fastest growing in the Nation. Just this
past April, Oklahomans spent more
than $18 million on medical cannabis,
and the Oklahoma Medical Marijuana
Authority has licensed 1,400
dispensaries and 2,700 commercial
growers in the State.
This industry is bringing revenue to
our State, creating small businesses,
and helping those who suffer with
physical illness to relieve their ail-
ments. The SAFE Banking Act sup-
ports this growing Oklahoma industry,
our banks, and works to keep Oklaho-
mans that work in and around this in-
dustry safe.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this pragmatic leg-
islation that makes our community
safer, protects States’ rights, supports
small businesses, and grows our econ-
omy.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 32
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.008 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7912 September 25, 2019
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at noon.
f
PRAYER
Dr. J.D. Greear, The Summit Church,
Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, of-
fered the following prayer:
Almighty Father, we ask You for
Your help in guiding the affairs of this
great Nation. We acknowledge that you
have appointed governments for the
promotion of peace, for the preserva-
tion of justice, and the protection of
liberty. We recognize that the wisdom
to accomplish these things comes only
from You.
May You grant that this body rule in
a way that directs the men, women,
and children of this country towards
Your goodness, and enables them to re-
spond in thankfulness to You, knowing
that each of us must give an account
for our decisions and our actions to
You.
May we perceive the love that You
have for us, and may that translate
into love for one another, especially
the most vulnerable.
Finally, may we recognize that all of
this comes as a gift from You, em-
bodied in Jesus Christ, who was pun-
ished for our sin and raised to life so
that we could find new life in Him.
It is in His name that I pray.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
WILSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING DR. J.D. GREEAR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. WALKER) is recognized
for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, you have
just heard from a man, J.D. Greear,
that I have the distinct privilege of
calling my friend.
Pastor J.D. Greear leads The Summit
Church in Durham, North Carolina.
Under Pastor J.D.’s leadership, The
Summit Church has gone from 300
members to over 10,000, making it one
of the fastest growing churches in our
country.
His vision is to plant 1,000 new
churches around the world by the year
2050.
He believes the deeper we dive into
the extravagant love of Christ, the
more our lives will be filled with un-
quenchable joy, reckless generosity,
and audacious faith.
Pastor J.D. is the author of several
life-transforming books and is the cur-
rent president of the Southern Baptist
Convention.
One of his most important accom-
plishments is his dedication to his wife,
Veronica, and their four children.
It is an honor to have him here in
Washington, D.C., today. He is also the
mentor of my pastor, Andrew Hopper.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to his
continued work as a father, as a pastor,
and as a leader.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 further re-
quests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
AN IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY IS
NECESSARY
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, with each passing day, we see
an erosion of this country’s ideals by a
President who freely sidesteps Con-
gress, profits off his position, obstructs
justice, and places personal petty poli-
tics before national security.
The validity of these violations is not
in question. They are happening before
us.
The Intelligence inspector general,
who was appointed by President
Trump, said that the whistleblower
complaint is of both urgent concern
and credible, and its public release is
the National Intelligence director’s ob-
ligation to the American people.
An impeachment inquiry is necessary
to protect the values included in our
Constitution and to deliver the truth
Americans deserve.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
SANDHILL RESEARCH AND
EDUCATION CENTER
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, each August, I participate in
a bus tour of South Carolina’s Second
Congressional District with my wife,
Roxanne, and dedicated staff from the
Washington and district offices.
This year, the tour took us to the
Clemson University Sandhill Research
and Education Center in Columbia. The
Sandhill Research and Education Cen-
ter plays a vital role in the growth of
statewide agribusiness.
We were welcomed by long-time
friend, Director Kathy Coleman.
During the visit, we heard updates
from faculty members Cory Heaton,
Adam Kantrovich, and Nathan Smith
on their research in agribusiness pro-
gramming, which promotes President
Donald Trump’s policies of farm ex-
ports.
We learned from farm manager Cody
Bishop of the incubator program,
which provides small plots for startup
farmers to begin growing their busi-
ness.
The visit was jointly hosted with the
South Carolina Farm Bureau. We were
welcomed by David Wilson, Gary
Spires, and Charles Wingard.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
INVESTIGATE FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN AND HIS
SON, HUNTER BIDEN
(Mr. LAMBORN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to call for an investigation into
former Vice President Joe Biden and
his son, Hunter Biden, for their uneth-
ical and potentially criminal actions in
Ukraine.
In 2014, after being discharged from
the Navy for cocaine use, Hunter Biden
was named a board member of Burisma
Holdings. Burisma is a natural gas
company that was being investigated
by the Ukrainian Government for cor-
ruption.
This strange hire for a million dol-
lars a year was around the same period
that Vice President Joe Biden was the
primary American liaison to Ukraine,
supposedly assisting their new govern-
ment in combating corruption.
Just last year, Joe Biden bragged to
the Council on Foreign Relations that
he threatened the Ukrainian Govern-
ment while vice president with the loss
of a billion dollars unless they fired the
prosecutor general leading the ethics
probe into Hunter Biden, or America
would cut off that foreign aid.
Talk about quid pro quo.
It is clear: Democrats would rather
smear President Trump than inves-
tigate Biden’s corrupt bullying of the
Ukrainian Government.
f
AFFORDABLE HEALTH INSURANCE
OPTIONS
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.009 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7913
September 25, 2019
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, when Con-
gress passed the Affordable Care Act in
2010, President Obama made a famous
promise: that the American people
would be able to keep the plans they
liked while paying less for health in-
surance. But, Mr. Speaker, that famous
promise was false, and ObamaCare’s
consequences are still being felt to this
day.
Over the preceding decade, premiums
for individual coverage have more than
doubled, patient choice has declined,
and State exchanges have collapsed.
This upheaval is a direct result of the
law’s rigid and costly regulations that
predated the Trump administration.
In order to bring down costs and in-
crease choice, today I introduced the
Flexibility Through Lower Expenses
Healthcare Act, or the FLEX Act.
The FLEX Act codifies into law the
Trump administration’s rules on short
term, limited duration, and association
healthcare plans. This will allow small
businesses to band together to pur-
chase affordable plans and give con-
sumers the freedom to purchase low-
cost, short-term plans if they need to.
Mr. Speaker, it is time for Congress
to follow the Trump administration’s
lead and make these rules permanent.
All citizens of our great country de-
serve affordable health insurance op-
tions that are free from ObamaCare’s
crippling regulatory regime.
f
TYSON UPWARD ACADEMY
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the launch of the
50th Upward Academy at the Tyson
Foods plant in my hometown of Zee-
land, Michigan.
This unique in-plant educational pro-
gram offers empowering resources and
courses to all workers at no cost.
By partnering with local community
organizations, Upward Academy pro-
vides team members the opportunity to
access important classes, such as
English as a second language, general
education development, and citizenship
courses.
The academy also includes multiple
components focused on workplace
skills and professional training to de-
velop talent, especially in rural and
marginalized areas.
Through programs such as drivers’
education, computer technology, and
financial literacy, Upward Academy
brings knowledgeable experts directly
to workers so they can move beyond
entry-level jobs and receive valuable
qualifications so that they can perform
at even higher levels.
The 50th launch of the Upward Acad-
emy will open the door for all team
members to strive beyond their current
situations.
Tyson Foods and Upward Academy’s
commitment to cultivating a modern
workforce that is prepared for the 21st
century helps our community grow
stronger and make west Michigan a
better place to live, work, and raise a
family.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
September 25, 2019, at 9:28 a.m.:
That the Senate passed with an amend-
ment H.R. 1158.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 1590.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 2203, HOMELAND SECU-
RITY IMPROVEMENT ACT; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3525, U.S. BORDER PATROL
MEDICAL SCREENING STAND-
ARDS ACT; PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H. RES. 576, EX-
PRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE
WITH RESPECT TO WHISTLE-
BLOWER COMPLAINT MADE TO
INSPECTOR GENERAL OF INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY; AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 577 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 577
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 2203) to increase trans-
parency, accountability, and community en-
gagement within the Department of Home-
land Security, provide independent oversight
of border security activities, improve train-
ing for agents and officers of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, and for other pur-
poses. All points of order against consider-
ation of the bill are waived. In lieu of the
amendment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Homeland
Security now printed in the bill, an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116-27,
modified by the amendment printed in the
report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution, shall be considered
as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended,
are waived. The previous question shall be
considered as ordered on the bill, as amend-
ed, and on any further amendment thereto,
to final passage without intervening motion
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Home-
land Security; and (2) one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order to consider in the House the
bill (H.R. 3525) to amend the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to direct the Commissioner
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to es-
tablish uniform processes for medical screen-
ing of individuals interdicted between ports
of entry, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Homeland Security now print-
ed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of
a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116-33 shall be considered
as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended,
are waived. The previous question shall be
considered as ordered on the bill, as amend-
ed, and on any further amendment thereto,
to final passage without intervening motion
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Home-
land Security; and (2) one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
SEC. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order without intervention of any
point of order to consider in the House the
resolution (H. Res. 576) expressing the sense
of the House of Representatives with respect
to the whistleblower complaint of August 12,
2019, made to the Inspector General of the In-
telligence Community. The resolution shall
be considered as read. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the resolu-
tion and preamble to adoption without inter-
vening motion or demand for division of the
question except one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence.
SEC. 4. It shall be in order at any time on
the legislative day of September 26, 2019, for
the Speaker to entertain motions that the
House suspend the rules as though under
clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or her des-
ignee shall consult with the Minority Leader
or his designee on the designation of any
matter for consideration pursuant to this
section.
SEC. 5. On any legislative day during the
period from September 30, 2019, through Oc-
tober 14, 2019—
(a) the Journal of the proceedings of the
previous day shall be considered as approved;
and
(b) the Chair may at any time declare the
House adjourned to meet at a date and time,
within the limits of clause 4, section 5, arti-
cle I of the Constitution, to be announced by
the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
SEC. 6. The Speaker may appoint Members
to perform the duties of the Chair for the du-
ration of the period addressed by section 5 of
this resolution as though under clause 8 (a)
of rule I.
SEC. 7. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a calendar day for purposes of
section 7 of the War Powers Resolution (50
U.S.C. 1546).
SEC. 8. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a legislative day for purposes
of clause 7 of rule XIII.
SEC. 9. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a calendar or legislative day
for purposes of clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII.
Sec. 10. Each day during the period addressed
by section 5 of this resolution shall not con-
stitute a legislative day for purposes of
clause 7 of rule XV.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.011 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7914 September 25, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), pending
which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
b 1215
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 577,
providing for consideration of H.R.
2203, the Homeland Security Improve-
ment Act; H.R. 3525, the U.S. Border
Patrol Medical Screening Standards
Act; and H. Res. 576, expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives
with respect to the whistleblower com-
plaint of August 12, 2019, made to the
Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, under closed rules.
For H.R. 2203 and H.R. 3525, the rule
provides 1 hour of general debate equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Homeland Security for
each bill. The rule provides H. Res. 576
1 hour of general debate equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
The rule also provides blanket sus-
pension authority for the legislative
day of Thursday, September 26, 2019,
and standard recess instructions for
the district work period from Sep-
tember 30 to October 14.
At the end of this debate, I will be of-
fering an amendment to the rule to re-
place the text of H. Res. 576 with the
text of S. Res. 325, a bipartisan resolu-
tion that passed the Senate unani-
mously yesterday. Both of these reso-
lutions urge that the complaint be
transmitted immediately to the Intel-
ligence Committees, as required by
law.
In our Rules Committee meeting last
night, several of my Republican col-
leagues suggested that they would pre-
fer that we take up the Senate-passed
language. To ensure that this Congress
speaks with one voice clearly and un-
equivocally on this urgent matter, we
will be amending the rule to do just
that.
Mr. Speaker, we are here today to de-
bate the rule for three important
pieces of legislative business, which I
will address serially: H. Res. 576, with
the text of S. Res. 325; H.R. 3525; and
H.R. 2203.
By now, every Member of this body is
well aware of the whistleblower com-
plaint that was filed to the intelligence
community inspector general following
a call President Trump had with the
President of Ukraine. These types of
complaints are far from unheard of,
and the law states that the complaint
must be turned over to the House and
Senate Intelligence Committees. How-
ever, the inspector general has testified
that the Acting Director of National
Intelligence blocked the complaint,
after consulting with the Department
of Justice, from being turned over to
Congress, despite the complaint fitting
the requirements for being turned over
under the law.
The way this complaint was handled
by the Trump administration was a
stark violation of that whistleblower
law, which states that the Director of
National Intelligence shall provide
Congress with the full whistleblower
complaint. In addition to breaking the
law, this corruption sends a strong and
chilling message to would-be whistle-
blowers that their courage and sac-
rifice in speaking out against impro-
priety and corruption will not be val-
ued if it is not politically expedient.
Yesterday, the Senate voted by unan-
imous consent to pass a nonbinding
resolution directing the Trump admin-
istration to hand over the whistle-
blower report filed against President
Trump, reportedly, to House and Sen-
ate Intelligence Committees. The fact
that Senator MCCONNELL allowed this
resolution to go to the floor should
show House Republicans that there is a
point where you must stop turning a
blind eye to this administration’s be-
trayal of our Constitution, our coun-
try, and our national security.
It is a sad day when Congress needs
to pass a resolution to obtain docu-
ments that we have an absolute right
to see, but this type of conduct is part
of a pattern of obstruction by this ad-
ministration that we have seen time
and time again.
Allowing the Intelligence Commit-
tees to see the complaints and inter-
view the whistleblower is essential to
our national security. Furthermore,
this resolution serves as a show of sup-
port and solidarity with whistle-
blowers. If we allow partisanship to
deter whistleblowers from acting, we
risk undermining a necessary check on
an unrestrained administration. It is
imperative that these brave Americans
are protected and that their concerns
are heard.
It is also worth noting that these
whistleblower protections were nego-
tiated and implemented with bipar-
tisan support over multiple adminis-
trations.
Protecting the integrity of our na-
tional security is vitally important. I
urge my Republican colleagues to fol-
low the lead of their Senate counter-
parts and join us in passing this resolu-
tion so that Congress can properly
meet its constitutional oversight du-
ties.
Also subject to this rule are two
homeland security measures.
First, H.R. 2203, the Homeland Secu-
rity Improvement Act, is a timely and
necessary bill to address our Nation’s
immigration and security challenges at
the southern border in a responsible
and humane way. This legislation will
ensure accountability, transparency,
and oversight in the agency responsible
for monitoring and securing our Na-
tion’s borders.
Further, the bill establishes an om-
budsman for border- and immigration-
related concerns within the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. This addi-
tional oversight in the Department of
Homeland Security will bring a much-
needed level of independent account-
ability to DHS and ensure that the
agents and employees working at our
border are performing their duties to
the highest possible standard.
There is no doubt that these border
security jobs are demanding and in-
tense, and the creation of an inde-
pendent, neutral, and confidential
process to address complaints will help
both the agents and employees working
at the border, as well as the individuals
they process.
This bill also creates a border com-
munities liaison, appointed by the om-
budsman in conjunction with the Office
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at
DHS, to operate in each Border Patrol
sector along the northern and southern
borders. The liaison will be charged
with fostering cooperation between
ICE, CBP, and surrounding border com-
munities, relationships that have be-
come increasingly strained and dis-
trustful in recent months.
In addition, the ombudsman will be
required to conduct annual evaluations
of all training given to ICE and CBP
agents and officers.
One of the many concerns that I
heard from ICE and CBP agents during
my trips to the border is that they are
not given adequate training and re-
sources to properly do their jobs under
current conditions. It is clear that this
administration is creating chaos at the
southern border by instituting policies
that prioritize political fearmongering
over addressing the humanitarian cri-
sis in Central America. This is unac-
ceptable given the complex challenges
border agents face every day, and an
annual assessment of their training
will serve to better equip these men
and women for their very difficult jobs.
Another area where DHS is lacking is
utilizing advancements in technology
that could improve outcomes for both
border agents and migrants. This bill
mandates that the ombudsman, in co-
ordination with the CBP Commis-
sioner, ICE Director, and ORR, develop
recommendations for an electronic
tracking number system to keep track
of children in U.S. custody. The wholly
inhumane practice of separating chil-
dren from their parents is preventable,
and tracking the location of a child
who has been separated from his or her
parents or guardians will help ensure
that no child is ever again in custody
alone and unaccounted for at our
southern border.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.013 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7915
September 25, 2019
Finally, this bill requires the om-
budsman to submit to Congress a plan
for requiring the use of body-worn cam-
eras by U.S. Border Patrol agents and
ICE officers when they are engaged in
border security and immigration en-
forcement activities. This is a long-
overdue step. Body cameras are already
used by State and local police depart-
ments around the country and have
served to improve justice outcomes for
the individuals who come into contact
with the police and provide a level of
oversight that is greatly needed at the
border.
Mr. Speaker, House Democrats are
committed to passing legislation that
will improve conditions at the border
and better ensure the safety of agents
and employees who work there, as well
as the safety of migrants they come
into contact with. Increased account-
ability is necessary to improving the
situation at the border, a situation, I
might add, that my Republican coun-
terparts continuously say needs ad-
dressing. This bill is the chance for
that added accountability.
I commend my colleague Representa-
tive ESCOBAR from El Paso for her hard
work and dedication on this issue and
Chairman THOMPSON and the Homeland
Security Committee for their thought-
ful consideration of H.R. 2203.
The second Homeland Security bill in
today’s rule is H.R. 3525, the U.S. Bor-
der Patrol Medical Screening Stand-
ards Act.
In December 2018, Jakelin, aged 7,
and Felipe, aged 8, both passed away in
the custody of the U.S. Border Patrol.
Following their deaths, CBP announced
new medical screening procedures for
children. Despite this, four more chil-
dren have since passed away in Federal
custody.
Let us be clear that we are address-
ing an issue that has emerged with the
implementation of the Trump adminis-
tration’s inhumane border policies. No
child died in CBP custody for the en-
tire decade preceding 2018, but we have
seen six in the last 10 months.
CBP facilities must be better
equipped to provide medical attention
for individuals in U.S. custody, par-
ticularly children.
One critical component of addressing
the new reality is an initial health
screening to identify acute or pressing
medical issues that need immediate or
follow-up attention. H.R. 3525 builds
upon legislation passed by the House in
July of this year by directing DHS to
research innovative approaches to ad-
dress capability gaps for providing
medical screening at the border and
mandates the implementation of an
electronic health record system.
DHS medical professionals and other
medical caregivers at the border have
spoken of how much they need an elec-
tronic health system for CBP. In fact,
this was the genesis of the bill fol-
lowing Representative UNDERWOOD’s
visits to the border.
This bill requires DHS to make con-
certed process improvements, includ-
ing research done in consultation with
national medical professional associa-
tions that have expertise in emergency
medicine, nursing, pediatric care, and
other relevant medical skills.
Upon completion of this research,
DHS must submit a report to Congress
on its recommendations for improving
medical screening, access to emergency
care, and steps the Department plans
to take in response.
Within 90 days of this enactment,
DHS must establish an electronic
health record system that can be
accessed by all DHS components oper-
ating on our borders. ICE already has
its own electronic health record system
in place, and it is time CBP upgraded
its capabilities, as well.
The deaths that have occurred on our
borders are a stain on our Nation, and
current medical screening processes
are clearly not enough.
An inspector general report, released
a few weeks ago, highlighted the chal-
lenges that ORR is having in address-
ing the mental health needs of those
children released by CBP to ORR.
Though this bill deals with CBP, many
of the issues transfer from agency to
agency with the children. The trauma
for these children begins when they are
forced to flee their birth countries and
is exacerbated by the journey to the
U.S., which, for many, is marked by vi-
olence, sexual abuse, hunger, and sleep
deprivation.
Once they finally arrive in the U.S.,
they then may be separated from their
parents, if that didn’t happen along the
original journey, causing further trau-
ma. Medical professionals are clear
that these children are going to have
lifelong trauma. They need a detailed
medical record of the care they receive
or do not receive while in U.S. custody
so that they can receive adequate fol-
low-up care.
The IG report noted, as well, that the
facilities where we house these chil-
dren have not employed sufficient
numbers of essential mental health cli-
nicians. This results in higher case-
loads for staff and worse outcomes for
these afflicted children.
The electronic health record system
required by this bill will ensure that
medical information does not get lost,
help track when follow-up appoint-
ments are necessary, and prevent du-
plication of medical services due to
lost or incomplete records once chil-
dren are transferred to ORR custody.
This bill is the result of Representa-
tive UNDERWOOD’s leadership and en-
gagement with the treatment of mi-
grants at our border, and I commend
her for her efforts.
b 1230
These two Homeland Security bills
provided for in this rule will modernize
the Department of Homeland Security
and support better outcomes for border
agents, employees, and migrants who
come into U.S. custody.
House Democrats understand the
need to provide the Department of
Homeland Security with the resources
it needs to effectively do its job, and I
urge my Republican colleagues to vote
for this legislation to support all those
who work and live by the border.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
SCANLON for yielding me the customary
30 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, the bills we consider
today highlight how far the priorities
of my colleagues across the aisle have
diverged from the priorities of the
American people.
We consider two bills purportedly re-
lated to border security but which do
nothing to solve the humanitarian cri-
sis at our border and, like the rest of
their previous so-called solutions,
make the problem even worse.
Instead of addressing the issues that
impact American citizens and legal
residents, the Democrats continue to
cave to radical, leftwing activists,
cater to illegal immigrants over U.S.
citizens and legal residents, and malign
the President for his attempts to se-
cure or border.
Then, late yesterday afternoon, a
mere 1 hour and 45 minutes before the
Rules Committee met, my Democratic
colleagues added another item to the
schedule for this rule to further their
witch hunt against President Trump.
The Democrats ran on kitchen table
issues like healthcare, but it is becom-
ing increasingly clear that their obses-
sion with attacking this President and
prioritizing illegal immigrants over
U.S. citizens has impeded their ability
to address the needs of our country.
The first bill, H.R. 2203, expands the
government by creating another Fed-
eral bureaucrat, an ombudsman, to in-
vestigate complaints against Customs
and Border Protection and Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, our
law enforcement on the border.
This is a special ombudsman just for
illegal immigrants to file complaints
against law enforcement, even though
there are current avenues to file com-
plaints. It requires that bureaucrat to
establish even more bureaucrats in
each U.S. Border Patrol sector. On top
of those bureaucrats, it creates even
more to sit on a border oversight panel.
The icing on the cake: The legislation
gives the ombudsman no real authority
to resolve any issues.
This bill does nothing to address the
root causes of the current humani-
tarian crisis on the southern border. In
fact, I have introduced six bills to get
to the root of the problem. None of
them have been heard in the Judiciary
Committee, but, instead, their bill is
made up of policy provisions that cater
to illegal immigrants and undermine
our law enforcement at the border,
thus, weakening our national security.
Put simply, my Democratic col-
leagues’ answer to our border crisis is
to create a taxpayer-funded complaint
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.015 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7916 September 25, 2019
box for illegal immigrants, and it gives
no power to the ombudsman.
The second bill, H.R. 3525, throws
even more taxpayer money at pro-
grams that will do nothing for the bor-
der security Americans demand. It
even jeopardizes our national security
by requiring the Department of Home-
land Security to reprogram funding
used for combating terrorist and crimi-
nal organizations and for responding to
manmade and national disasters to an
IT system to track illegal immigrant
health records.
The bill states that this new elec-
tronic health records program has to
be completed in a record 90 days. Once
again, my Democratic colleagues are
prioritizing illegal immigrants over
U.S. citizens. Our own veterans don’t
even have a system like this.
In fact, we in Congress have been try-
ing to get an electronic health record
system in the VA for years, and we
found that it would cost multimillions
of dollars. Yet there is no funding in
this bill for this electronic program, so
we would have to divert money from
our national security priorities.
This bill does divert money from pro-
tecting American citizens to enhancing
the experience for illegal immigrants.
I have been to a border facility in
Eloy, Arizona, a detention center, and
I have also been to an HHS facility in
Virginia that houses unaccompanied
minors. I saw that both facilities were
clean and the occupants were treated
well. I even ate with detainees, sat at
the table with them at the Eloy Deten-
tion Center, and the food was good.
Prioritizing where DHS should allo-
cate its limited resources, my firsthand
experience leads me to believe that
hurricane response and thwarting ter-
rorists are of greater concern than
prioritizing illegal immigrants.
Finally, the resolution, H. Res. 576, is
an inappropriate rush to judgment
without gathering all of the facts.
First of all, the President released
the call transcript text with the Presi-
dent of Ukraine today. I read it. To me,
it is a big nothing burger, and, in fact,
it demonstrates—I am glad the Presi-
dent released it because it dem-
onstrates how the media and some of
my Democratic colleagues were totally
false in their allegations.
One of the accusations was that eight
times the President talked about this
Biden issue with the Ukrainian Presi-
dent. That is totally untrue.
Second, the Director of National In-
telligence is testifying before the
House Intelligence Committee tomor-
row, on Thursday, and Chairman
SCHIFF has already announced efforts
to have a closed-door meeting with the
whistleblower this week.
Third, these things should occur be-
fore the House rushes into this type of
resolution. I understand, and we are
told on the floor today by my col-
leagues, that Democrats intend to
amend the rule to match the Senate-
passed resolution on this matter, and I
am glad. They are removing the dispar-
aging language against the President
and other people in his administration
that was in the House version that we
saw last night in the Rules Committee.
In fact, as the Speaker knows, I
brought this up last night in com-
mittee, and we could have done this
last night. However, I am still con-
cerned that this resolution, as amend-
ed, is still premature.
Even if the two border bills pass the
Senate—and they won’t—they would
not help our constituents.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. RASKIN), a distinguished
member of the Rules Committee.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the floor leader for her leadership on
this.
Our colleague from Arizona chides us
because we campaigned on healthcare.
We campaigned on healthcare, proudly,
and we are defending preexisting condi-
tions coverage against every effort by
the Republicans to destroy it by re-
pealing the Affordable Care Act in this
body. And we have defended it and we
continue to defend it in court as they
are trying to destroy preexisting condi-
tions coverage in Texas right now.
We hope that they will work with us
on lowering prescription drug prices.
So I believe that my colleague should
take up her own invitation to get to
work for the American people.
We have no problem advancing the
public policy interests of the American
people while we defend the Constitu-
tion and the rule of law against the
conduct of this President.
Now, we had a resolution last night
saying, obey the law, telling the ad-
ministration there is a very simple
whistleblower statute which gives peo-
ple the opportunity to come forward to
say that there is a violation of the Na-
tional Security Act in a way that flags
a serious or flagrant problem, abuse, or
violation of law, and then that goes to
the inspector general of the Depart-
ment.
It went to the inspector general, and
that is an inspector general appointed
by President Trump himself. And the
inspector general found that the whis-
tleblower’s complaint was credible and
it was urgent. It went to a serious
problem.
At that point, it goes to the Director
of National Intelligence, and that Di-
rector has 7 days to turn it over to the
House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence.
The 7 days came and went. This is
the first time in American history
when the Director of National Intel-
ligence did not turn over such a com-
plaint to the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence.
So the U.S. Senate, in a bipartisan
fashion, all the Democrats and all of
the Republicans, got together and said
to the administration, to the Director
of National Intelligence: Turn that
complaint over immediately to Con-
gress.
We had the exact same resolution
last night, and our colleagues said:
Well, we don’t like your resolution. It
is too profuse. There is too much lan-
guage, as the gentlewoman said. We
think that it may disparage the con-
duct of the President.
So what we did is we took them at
their word. We purged all of that lan-
guage and we made it an exact replica
of the Senate resolution that they were
praising last night. They loved it last
night. They said: That is exactly what
this should be. So we have conformed it
precisely to what they are asking for,
and they still oppose it.
What we need is an emphatic, unani-
mous, bipartisan statement that the
Federal laws of the United States must
be respected by this administration.
The lawlessness must stop.
A whistleblower is someone acting in
the highest, most noble traditions of
the country. He is not a traitor, as
some have implied. A whistleblower is
not someone who has gone over to the
other side of the country. A whistle-
blower is someone working for the
American people.
Both parties used to understand that,
not just Democrats, but Republicans
used to understand that. Apparently,
the Senate Republicans do understand
it, and yet, now, we have a situation
where we are saying: We have got a res-
olution, an exact replica of the Senate
resolution where we are asking the ad-
ministration just to comply with the
law. Come forward and give us the
complaint as you are required to do by
law.
The statute uses the phrase, ‘‘shall
turn over to Congress.’’ ‘‘Shall,’’ that
means must—not may, not maybe do
it. You must do it. Every other Presi-
dent, every other administration, every
other Director of National Intelligence
has understood that.
We asked our colleagues to stand by
what they told us in committee last
night, which was they liked the Senate
version, and they urged us to use the
Senate version. We are using the Sen-
ate version, and we hope that we will
have an emphatic, bipartisan state-
ment to the executive branch of gov-
ernment they must turn over this ma-
terial according to law.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to allow for imme-
diate consideration of S. 820, the
Debbie Smith Act of 2019, which reau-
thorizes funding to process the rape kit
backlogs.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.017 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7917
September 25, 2019
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, this pro-
gram was reauthorized with broad bi-
partisan support in both 2008 and 2014.
The Senate passed the Debbie Smith
Act by unanimous consent in May,
over 4 months ago; yet the House has
yet to take up this important bill
meant to end the rape kit backlog,
even though it expires in just 5 days.
As a survivor of domestic violence
and co-chair of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Caucus for Women’s Issues, I am
deeply disturbed by reports that some
are using this program as leverage to
get the Senate to pass other things
that have nothing to do with DNA test-
ing of rape kits.
b 1245
My amendment makes the vote on
the previous question simple. Vote
‘‘no’’ if you believe survivors of rape
and sexual assault deserve to be one
step closer to justice. Vote ‘‘no’’ so we
can immediately consider the Debbie
Smith Act. Vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question if you stand with survivors of
rape and sexual assault.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from North Dakota (Mr.
ARMSTRONG), who is my good friend.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I,
like many people growing up thought
murder was the worst crime you could
have in this country. However, my ca-
reer as a criminal defense attorney and
as a legal guardian ad litem for victims
of sexual assault has taught me that is
not true. Violent sexual assault is the
most terrible crime that can be com-
mitted, and, as opposed to other
things, victims of that crime have to
relive it when they are interviewed by
law enforcement, they have to relive it
when they are interviewed by doctors
and nurses, they have to relive it when
they are interviewed by prosecutors,
and they oftentimes have to relive it as
they navigate through the criminal
justice system.
We have all heard stories about light
sentences in different areas, especially
when it comes under these cases. One
of the main reasons for that is because
of the nature of the crime and the un-
willingness of victims to continue to go
through this process as they move
through the courtroom. I have done
this in a court of law. I have helped
victims navigate this.
The single biggest predicator for get-
ting a conviction without a jury trial
is DNA evidence. This puts really bad
people in jail, it protects victims, it
protects future victims, and, more im-
portantly, it protects the very victims
who are there from having to deal with
this and navigate it.
In 5 days this expires. The FBI has
said that 475,000 matches have hap-
pened through this DNA testing; of
that 42 percent of those are directly re-
lated to the Debbie Smith law. This
should be the only thing we are talking
about in this town, because I cannot
imagine that we do not have broad, bi-
partisan agreement, and it should be
the previous question on every single
bill until we get it passed.
I understand how we work, and I un-
derstand how things move around, but
there is absolutely no reason this
should be used as a bargaining chip for
anything else. This is simple, this is
commonsense, this is good law enforce-
ment, and this protects victims of the
most dangerous and despicable crime
that can be committed on them.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. DEAN.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of the rule, and I thank our floor
manager, my colleague and friend from
Pennsylvania, Representative SCAN-
LON, for so ably guiding this argument.
Mr. Speaker, as the Speaker so elo-
quently stated yesterday, this is a dan-
gerous time for our democracy. Our
Founding Fathers understood the im-
portance of whistleblowers as an inte-
gral part of the fabric of our democracy
and ensuring the rule of law is upheld.
The first United States whistleblower
law which unanimously passed on July
30, 1778, by the Continental Congress
states: ‘‘That it is the duty of all per-
sons in the service of the United
States, as well as all other the inhab-
itants thereof, to give the earliest in-
formation to Congress or other proper
authority of any misconduct, frauds or
misdemeanors committed by any offi-
cers or persons in the service of these
states, which may come to their
knowledge.’’
The Founding Fathers understood
this simple principle—that it is the
duty of all patriotic Americans to not
only come forward with allegations of
wrongdoing but to ensure that there is
a path that these allegations be
brought to Congress.
Mr. Speaker, what have we learned?
That these principles that our
Founding Fathers fought so hard to en-
shrine in our democracy are in jeop-
ardy. It is our responsibility, and it is
our duty to restore the faith of the
public in our elections and oversight of
all elected officials including and espe-
cially our President.
We know that the memorandum that
was released today is only a memo-
randum of the conversation between
the President and the President of
Ukraine, and it undermines the integ-
rity of his office. The President has be-
trayed his oath of office and his fidel-
ity to that oath by putting himself and
his personal and political gain over na-
tional security and the rule of law.
He must provide full details of the
whistleblower information to Congress.
He must provide a full transcript or
tape of that conversation with the
Ukrainian President. The public de-
serves it, our election security relies
upon it, and the integrity of the office
demands it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. RESCHENTHALER), who is
my friend.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, before I came to Congress, I served
as a magisterial district judge. I was on
the front line of the criminal justice
system, and I handled preliminary
hearings for sexual assault and rape
cases. Let me tell you, these crimes are
incredibly heinous, and stories from
the victims are absolutely heart-
breaking.
Many of these victims went through
a grueling evidence collection process
in the hopes they would help catch
their rapist. Unfortunately, this evi-
dence often sits untested on shelves for
months to years while sexual assault
victims wait for justice and their rap-
ists roam the streets. This is especially
dangerous because those who commit
sexual assault are likely to do it again.
They are typically habitual offenders.
So when we delay the testing of these
kits, we do so at the expense and the
risk of others being sexually assaulted.
So that is where the Debbie Smith
Act comes in. The Debbie Smith Act
provides funding for DNA testing and
training to eliminate the backlog of
untested DNA and rape kit evidence.
Since 2004 nearly 200,000 DNA matches
have been made thanks to the Debbie
Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program.
Again, that is over 200,000 DNA
matches since 2004. But without con-
gressional action, this legislation is set
to expire on Monday.
The Senate recognized the critical
need to reauthorize this bill. They
passed this bill back in May and sent it
to the House for consideration, but, un-
fortunately, my Democratic colleagues
refuse to bring this bill to the floor.
They would rather play politics than
put criminals in jail.
This is absolutely despicable. Sexual
assault victims have been through
enough. We should not hold this up for
funding so that Democrats can score
cheap political points with their rad-
ical, far-left base.
So I ask my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle to reexamine their pri-
orities and help us get justice for these
crime victims. This issue is too impor-
tant for partisan games.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I would
ask if the Representative from Arizona
has more speakers.
Mrs. LESKO. I have three speakers at
least, Mr. Speaker.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. CLINE), who is my good
friend.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, it is imperative that
the House immediately bring the
Debbie Smith Act up for consideration
before the program expires later this
month. As a former prosecutor in Vir-
ginia, I know all too well how critical
DNA evidence is for achieving justice
for victims of sexual violence.
Debbie Smith’s courage to share her
story with the world has changed the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.018 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7918 September 25, 2019
lives of millions, and no person should
ever have to experience her trauma
firsthand. Thanks to this program, in-
credible progress has been made to re-
duce DNA backlogs, and we cannot
take a step backward by allowing it to
lapse. The importance of DNA evidence
in criminal investigations and prosecu-
tions is unquestionable. In my home
State of Virginia, the FBI’s National
DNA Index contains more than 447,000
offender profiles and has aided in over
11,000 criminal investigations.
This program has been reauthorized
previously with bipartisan support, and
there is no excuse for it to be politi-
cized now. S. 820 has been languishing
in the Judiciary Committee for
months. This failure to act enables vio-
lent criminals to remain at large and
in our society.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the Speaker to
bring this bill to the floor and put it up
for a vote so we can protect people
from violent sexual predators and
allow justice to be served through our
legal system.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from the
great State of Texas (Mr. GOHMERT),
who is my good friend.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I would
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
this previous question because in doing
so we can finally take care of a matter
that should have been taken care of
long before now that I understood was
a bipartisan matter. Both sides of the
aisle wanted to help address the tre-
mendous backlog of DNA rape kits that
needed to be analyzed. The Debbie
Smith Act, as my friend from Arizona
indicated, was previously passed and
reauthorized, and now we need to reau-
thorize it again because even though
there are 641,000 DNA cases that were
processed, there is still so much that
needs to be done.
In addition to crime scene evidence
and rape kits, the Debbie Smith funds
also are utilized to process offender
DNA samples to ensure evidence from
unsolved crimes can be matched
against our database. So the funds pro-
vided by the act are incredibly critical
since they will help solve crimes and
get criminals off the streets.
I know from my friends across the
aisle and in our hearing that was just
going on that I just left in Judiciary
that there is an effort to, as one Demo-
cratic witness said: Gee, we are here
just to ask you to do something.
Rather than taking guns from law-
abiding citizens as is being proposed, I
would submit a better answer is let’s
get the criminals off the street. I know
there is a big effort to get criminals
out of prison, but how about if we get
criminals back in prison for crimes
they have committed that have not
been adjudicated?
This needs to be addressed. It
shouldn’t be a political issue. If we
could get a majority to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the previous question, then we will get
this amendment in as part of the rule.
I don’t know if we would have more
than a couple of people who would even
vote against the Debbie Smith Act. So
it is all a matter of getting it to the
floor.
Here we are about to enter October,
and we still have not taken this com-
monsense step to get criminals off the
street. So I hope we will do the right
thing by all those victims, all those
women who have been raped and are
waiting for their criminal—their hor-
rible and torturous individual—to be
taken off the street. Let’s vote ‘‘no’’ on
the previous question, and then we can
do that.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I am
prepared to close, but I believe my col-
leagues have one more speaker, so I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1300
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. GROTHMAN), my good
friend.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I will
address the underlying bills on this
rule.
I have been at the border three times
this year, and while I have been to a
lot of workplaces, a lot of work envi-
ronments, there is nobody I have more
respect for than the professional job
that the U.S. Border Patrol does of pro-
tecting this country, and they do it
under the most difficult of cir-
cumstances.
Last time I was down there, they had
2,000 vacant positions. They were, in
May, staffed at a level that was maybe
a third of what it should have been,
given the huge number of people com-
ing across.
In addition to just apprehending peo-
ple, they had to do mounds of paper-
work. They had to, in essence, act as a
daycare for all the young people who
are sneaking in this country, but they
did it without complaining, with the
utmost professionalism.
I find it hard to believe, after watch-
ing these professional Border Patrol
agents, that other people went down to
the border and felt the problem is we
have to tie their hands still more with
another ombudsman, more paperwork,
inviting people to file false complaints,
particularly since we already have an
inspector general and an Office of Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties in the De-
partment of Homeland Security. So in
addition to the watchmen on the Bor-
der Patrol, we had all sorts of new peo-
ple down here.
I guess I am still surprised, but
maybe I shouldn’t be surprised. There
are some people who look at an inter-
action between police and a criminal
and think there is something wrong
with the policeman and instinctually
don’t like him. There are people in a
corrections facility who look at the
corrections officers and the prisoners
and automatically think the problem
in the corrections facility is the cor-
rections officers.
That is what we have down at the
border right now, which is being sub-
mitted in this bill. Rather than giving
a thank-you to our Border Patrol by
adding additional people, we give them
a kick in the teeth by saying: There
must be something wrong with you. We
need more people to watch over you,
make it easier to file paperwork
against you, have you have to look out
more than you have in the past—and
such a dangerous job.
I mean, you figure some of these
folks, they are out there in the middle
of the night, maybe they catch a cara-
van of 30 or 50 people sneaking into
this country, and one Border Patrol
agent is supposed to bring all these
people in. What sacrifice for our coun-
try.
And what do they get from this body?
Do they get filling out the empty posi-
tions? They don’t get that. What they
get is a kick in the teeth, saying: We
have something wrong with you.
Mr. Speaker, I hope we vote against
the rule, and I hope we vote against the
acts.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, before my closing state-
ments, I want to put on the RECORD
that the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. RASKIN) had said earlier that, in
Rules Committee last night, Repub-
licans gushed over the Senate resolu-
tion, and that is actually not accurate.
What we did is, after Mr. SCHIFF
made some disparaging remarks about
House Republicans, if they didn’t vote
for the House resolution like the Sen-
ate Republicans did, that we didn’t
care about the issue, then I merely
pointed out the differences between the
Senate version and the House version,
and so that is how that came about.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I will just
summarize the bills before us today:
One, creates government bureaucrats
with no real authority;
Two, diverts money meant to protect
Americans from terrorism, gangs, and
natural disasters;
Three, continues the obsession by my
Democratic colleagues to bash the
President and others and is a political
tool.
The Democrats ran on kitchen table
issues. Instead, week after week, they
prioritized the demands of the radical
leftwing activists over the needs of the
American people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question, ‘‘no’’ on the underlying
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the whistleblower reso-
lution we will vote on later this week
is critical to the constitutional over-
sight responsibilities given to us by the
Constitution. Congress has a right to
view this whistleblower complaint, and
it is important that we join our Senate
colleagues in a bipartisan statement to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:17 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.020 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7919
September 25, 2019
this administration that Congress will
not abdicate its responsibilities.
Again, I urge my Republican col-
leagues in the House to join House
Democrats and a unanimous Senate to
support the final resolution affirming
to this administration that we will per-
form our duty and to reassure whistle-
blowers that their courageous acts will
be valued and welcomed by Congress.
Mr. Speaker, the two strong bills to
protect children and families from ap-
palling conditions and treatment at
our southwest border have been sent to
us by the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and are representative of the
types of constructive and measured
legislation that comes from going
through regular order.
These bills seek to address emergent
conditions at our southern border in a
way that is thoughtful and practical
and, if enacted, will have a tangible
impact on the day-to-day working lives
of the men and women who work at the
border and the migrants and children
who come into U.S. custody.
Conditions at the border are unac-
ceptable. I think both sides of the aisle
should agree on that. But what we
would also likely agree upon is that
simply throwing money at this situa-
tion will not help. We talk about the
need for meaningful solutions a lot
around here, and today we present two
of them.
The situation at the border is com-
plicated and requires ongoing atten-
tion, but we cannot let conditions at
the border continue to deteriorate.
These two bills will provide meaningful
and much-needed reforms to our border
detention system and help pave the
way for larger scale immigration legis-
lation.
AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MS. SCANLON
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Strike section 3 of the resolution and in-
sert the following:
SEC. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order without intervention of any
point of order to consider in the House the
resolution (H. Res. 576) expressing the sense
of the House of Representatives with respect
to the whistleblower complaint of August 12,
2019, made to the Inspector General of the In-
telligence Community. The amendments to
the resolution and the preamble specified in
section 11 of this resolution shall be consid-
ered as adopted. The resolution, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The previous
question shall be considered as ordered on
the resolution, as amended, to adoption
without intervening motion or demand for
division of the question except one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 11. The amendments referred to in
section 3 are as follows:
(a) Strike all after the resolving clause and
insert the following:
‘‘That—
(1) the whistleblower complaint received
on August 12, 2019, by the Inspector General
of the Intelligence Community shall be
transmitted immediately to the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate and the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate and the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the House of Rep-
resentatives should be allowed to evaluate
the complaint in a deliberate and bipartisan
manner consistent with applicable statutes
and processes in order to safeguard classified
and sensitive information.’’.
(b) Strike the preamble.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania is recog-
nized.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I urge
support for the resolution, as amended.
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 577
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 11. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed on the
consideration in the House of the bill (S. 820)
to strengthen programs authorized under the
Debbie Smith Act of 2004. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
The bill shall be considered as read. All
points of order against provisions in the bill
are waived. The previous question shall be
considered as ordered on the bill and on any
amendment thereto to final passage without
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one mo-
tion to recommit.
SEC. 12. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of S. 820.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the
amendment and on the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question on the amendment and on the
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on the amendment to the resolu-
tion, if ordered, and adoption of the
resolution, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
191, not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 542]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:31 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.021 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7920 September 25, 2019
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Dean
Graves (LA)
Higgins (LA)
Jackson Lee
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kuster (NH)
Marshall
McEachin
Van Drew
Wright
b 1337
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, because
I was chairing a Committee on the assault
weapons ban, I missed the following vote. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 542.
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 542.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 542.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, on Wednesday, September 25,
2019, I was unavoidably detained and missed
rollcall vote No. 542. Had I been present for
this recorded vote, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the amendment.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution, as
amended.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
191, not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 543]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Graves (LA)
Higgins (LA)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Krishnamoorthi
Marshall
McEachin
Meeks
Schweikert
Wright
b 1348
So the resolution, as amended, was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted nay on rollcall No. 543.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I
was absent during the first series of votes on
September 25 due to illness. Had I been
present, I would have voted nay on rollcall No.
542, and nay on rollcall No. 543.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, be-
cause I was held up chairing a hearing
on the assault weapons ban, I missed
the motion on ordering the previous
question to the rule, House Resolution
577, regarding the Homeland Security
bill and the whistleblower bill. If I had
been here, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 50 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1440
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:31 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.004 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7921
September 25, 2019
tempore (Ms. DEGETTE) at 2 o’clock
and 40 minutes p.m.
f
EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE
HOUSE WITH RESPECT TO WHIS-
TLEBLOWER COMPLAINT MADE
TO INSPECTOR GENERAL OF IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 577, I call up
the resolution (H. Res. 576) expressing
the sense of the House of Representa-
tives with respect to the whistleblower
complaint of August 12, 2019, made to
the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community, and ask for its im-
mediate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 577, the
amendments to the text and preamble
specified in section 11 of that resolu-
tion are adopted and the resolution, as
amended, is considered read.
The text of the resolution, as amend-
ed, is as follows:
H. RES. 576
Resolved, That—
(1) the whistleblower complaint received
on August 12, 2019, by the Inspector General
of the Intelligence Community shall be
transmitted immediately to the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate and the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate and the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the House of Rep-
resentatives should be allowed to evaluate
the complaint in a deliberate and bipartisan
manner consistent with applicable statutes
and processes in order to safeguard classified
and sensitive information.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution, as amended, shall be debatable
for 1 hour, equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence.
The gentleman from Connecticut
(Mr. HIMES) and the gentleman from
California (Mr. NUNES) each will con-
trol 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Connecticut.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
the amended resolution, which de-
mands provision to the congressional
intelligence committees of a whistle-
blower complaint, which the Acting Di-
rector of National Intelligence has
withheld. The law, however, required
the Acting DNI to submit it to the
committees.
This is a serious matter, Madam
Speaker, for IC whistleblowing, con-
gressional oversight, and the rule of
law.
Before turning to it, let me express
my deep gratitude for the actions of a
courageous and anonymous individual
in the intelligence community. That
person wanted to report urgent, cred-
ible allegations of serious wrongdoing
and did the right thing by acting in
strict accordance with proper whistle-
blower procedures. These permit classi-
fied disclosures to be made to the intel-
ligence committees while protecting
national security.
Using that mechanism, in August,
the whistleblower made a complaint to
the inspector general of the intel-
ligence community. According to the
Justice Department’s legal opinion re-
garding the complaint, which it today
released to the public, the whistle-
blower’s allegations concerned the con-
tent of a telephone call between Presi-
dent Trump and a foreign leader.
The inspector general determined the
complaint to be urgent, meaning that
the matter met important statutory
criteria, and that its allegations ap-
peared to be credible.
The inspector general, months later,
would write that the complaint’s alle-
gations not only fell ‘‘within the DNI’s
jurisdiction,’’ but that they ‘‘relate to
one of the most important and signifi-
cant responsibilities to the American
people.’’ That is protecting the United
States from foreign interference in our
elections.
In strict accordance with the statu-
tory rules, the inspector general passed
the complaint and his determination to
the Acting Director of National Intel-
ligence. The Acting Director was obli-
gated to forward this material to the
congressional intelligence committees
within 7 days of receipt, but, in con-
travention of the law, he refused to do
that.
There can be no misreading of the
provision imposing that obligation. It
says that the DNI ‘‘shall’’ forward the
materials to the House intelligence
committee and also to our colleagues
at the Senate intelligence committee.
b 1445
‘‘Shall,’’ of course, means ‘‘shall.’’ It
does not mean ‘‘can if you want to.’’
Despite this unambiguous, categor-
ical directive, the Trump administra-
tion interfered with the time-tested
process for IC whistleblowing. It would
need to resist that process forcefully
because, as public reports have sug-
gested, the complaint potentially con-
cerned the same craven abuse of power
by President Trump which the public
learned about this morning.
I won’t recite all the details of this
sordid episode. But suffice it to say
that documents released today plainly
show the President of the United
States shaking down his Ukrainian
counterpart for a ‘‘favor’’—an inves-
tigation by Ukraine’s authorities, with
close coordination by Rudy Giuliani
and Attorney General Bill Barr, into
the son of former Vice President Joe
Biden, the former Vice President him-
self being a candidate for the U.S. pres-
idency.
So the administration got the Jus-
tice Department’s Office of Legal
Counsel involved, it got the White
House Counsel involved, and, without
invoking national security or making a
claim of executive privilege, it man-
aged to get a staggeringly flawed legal
opinion from the Department of Jus-
tice.
The opinion’s reasoning is specious
on its face. According to the Depart-
ment of Justice, the whistleblower
statute did not apply to the complaint,
and the complaint therefore did not
have to be forwarded to the commit-
tees because the complaint’s allega-
tions do not relate to an urgent con-
cern, meaning the funding, administra-
tion, or operation of an intelligence ac-
tivity under the DNI’s authority and
responsibility.
In this regard, the DOJ observed that
the alleged conduct was committed by
the President, who is outside of and
above the IC. I will point out that that
is irrelevant under the statute. All
that is required is that the allegation
‘‘relate to’’ an intelligence activity
within the DNI’s purview.
The DOJ also faulted the IC IG, the
inspector general, for not citing a stat-
ute or policy that gave the DNI oper-
ational responsibility to prevent for-
eign interference in our elections.
Think about that for a second. Have
in mind what our country went
through in 2016 when Russia undertook
covert as well as overt measures to
warp the U.S. Presidential election and
to sow discord which the Trump cam-
paign welcomed with open arms.
With that recent history in mind, to
say nothing of the rules on the books,
we can easily dispose of the claim that
the intelligence community, as cap-
tained by the acting DNI, has no oper-
ational role in keeping adversary gov-
ernments from meddling in our demo-
cratic processes. That assertion is ig-
norant. It is wrong. And it bespeaks a
serious misunderstanding about the
DNI’s authorities and the activities of
the United States intelligence commu-
nity.
The DOJ’s cramped view would come
as news to President Trump, I suspect,
given the executive order he issued in
September of 2018 regarding foreign in-
terference in our elections, which re-
quires the DNI, after every Federal
election in this country, to assess
whether such interference has taken
place and to report his assessment to
the rest of the executive branch. That
sounds a lot like a serious role for the
DNI to me.
I imagine the Department of Jus-
tice’s view would also come as a shock
to the acting DNI himself. After all, by
statute the DNI is the head of the U.S.
intelligence community and the prin-
cipal intelligence adviser to the Presi-
dent and the National Security Coun-
cil, among other things. As the inspec-
tor general correctly noted, one mis-
sion of the intelligence community,
among its core missions, is to protect
the United States against hostile intel-
ligence activities directed against it.
That would include any hostile foreign
intelligence activities associated with
efforts by foreign adversaries to inter-
fere in our elections.
So I am stunned that the acting DNI
would accept legal advice like this,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.029 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7922 September 25, 2019
which strains to minimize or ignore
the functions and responsibilities that
the DNI carries out—or at least I
hope—routinely.
I am also stunned that the ODNI
would acquiesce in advice that, if per-
mitted to stand, would do such extraor-
dinary damage. By conferring on the
DNI the discretion to opt out of what is
plainly mandatory, the Department of
Justice neutered a statute governing
intelligence community whistle-
blowing; overturned years of consistent
practice; and, most damaging of all,
called into doubt important protec-
tions from reprisal on which this whis-
tleblower relied and other lawful whis-
tleblowers in the IC have relied.
I can only imagine the chilling effect
that the Department of Justice’s ap-
proach will have on lawful IC whistle-
blowing and thus on the intelligence
committees’ ability to conduct over-
sight of intelligence activities.
Madam Speaker, let me end with a
note about the state of play, which is
fluid, to say the least. I understand
that the executive branch may make
some of the whistleblower’s materials
available to the committee this after-
noon, but the details remain sketchy,
and the committee may not yet re-
ceive, in complete and unredacted
form, all the information that the act-
ing DNI is obligated to furnish by law,
and that we have sought by subpoena.
The committee will settle for nothing
less.
However, the situation is resolved,
Madam Speaker, the House has no
choice but to denounce the extraor-
dinary lengths to which the White
House and Justice Department have
gone to cover up and obstruct.
Madam Speaker, I strongly support
the resolution, as amended. I urge my
colleagues to join me, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H. Res. 576, as amended.
This resolution, which mirrors a res-
olution passed by the Senate yester-
day, expresses the sense of the House
that the whistleblower complaint re-
ceived by the intelligence community
inspector general should be imme-
diately transmitted to the congres-
sional intelligence committees.
Madam Speaker, this complaint has
given rise to fevered speculation and
frenzied media reporting, much of
which is based on a transcript of the
President’s phone call released today.
It appears to be exaggerated, mis-
leading, or outright false. It is also
serving as a linchpin of a longstanding
attempt by the Democrats to impeach
President Trump and finally achieve
their goal of overturning the results of
the 2016 election. The media coverage
and the Democrats’ hysterical and po-
liticized response to it is reminiscent
of countless episodes during the course
of the Russia collusion hoax. Thus, Re-
publicans look forward to actually
reading the material on which the
Democrats, from a position of igno-
rance, are basing their unrestrained ac-
cusations.
I should make the House aware that
it is roughly 3 o’clock in the afternoon
here in Washington, D.C., and at 4
o’clock this afternoon, in fact, the DNI
is going to transmit the complaint to
the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence spaces where all the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence members will have an oppor-
tunity to read it.
So, therefore, we have to ask our-
selves: Why are we voting on a resolu-
tion that is asking for the very docu-
ments that are being sent over?
They are probably on their way right
now, if they are not already here.
So, with that, I guess it gives an op-
portunity for the Democrats to come
down and bash the President, which I
know they enjoy doing, but in the
meantime, we have no problem with
this H. Res. 576, as amended. We appre-
ciate the majority’s accepting our
amendment so that it mirrors exactly
what the Senate passed last night.
Madam Speaker, in the meantime, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. SCHIFF),
and I ask unanimous consent that he
control that time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Connecticut?
There was no objection.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL).
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, this is a sobering moment in
our Nation’s history, when the rule of
law and constitutional duty requires
Congress to move swiftly to protect
our national security and the integrity
of our democracy.
In my time on the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, I
have been amazed and grateful for the
work our intelligence community per-
forms every day. We hold these men
and women accountable to the rule of
law and expect them to adhere to the
principles of our Constitution.
In return, those great Americans ex-
pect their elected leaders to be held ac-
countable to the same standard—above
all, their Commander in Chief. Presi-
dent Trump’s refusal to adhere to the
whistleblower statute and his unwar-
ranted attacks against one of these
professionals flies in the face of that
compact.
The statute is clear, Madam Speaker.
The Director of National Intelligence
shall provide the intelligence com-
mittee with all whistleblower com-
plaints, especially those that the in-
spector general finds credible and of ur-
gent concern.
It should not take this resolution or
the threat of impeachment to convince
the President to uphold the law he
swore to obey.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H. Res. 576, honor
our oaths, and do the right thing.
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. WENSTRUP), and
I ask unanimous consent that he con-
trol that time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate this,
and I am glad we are having the oppor-
tunity to bring this resolution to the
floor.
At this time I am pleased that we are
going to be able to get to the docu-
ments that are being requested in this
resolution. I am pleased that if there is
going to be a resolution that it is the
one that the Senate put forward in a
bipartisan fashion. This is what we
asked for in the Rules Committee last
night, and I am glad that it has come
forward today.
The question in hand—and we have
heard lots of comments, some of it re-
hashing old history, some of it rehash-
ing history that was disproven by the
Mueller Report—but at the same time
we are questioning what the DNI’s au-
thority is in this situation, according
to statute. I think it should be dis-
cussed.
In this situation where the DNI de-
termined that this should not be sent
to Congress, but also did not, in review
of the complaint—because the com-
plaint was given to DOJ for appro-
priate review, DOJ officials reviewed
the complaint in light of legal issues
identified by the IC IG in his cover let-
ter and determined that no further ac-
tion was warranted.
Tomorrow we are going to hear from
the DNI in the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, which I think is
appropriate.
As I pointed out last night in the
Rules Committee, I don’t think that
the other side would be happy if we
only heard from the DNI and not the
IG. So it is appropriate that we do
that.
He talked about the timely fashion of
it. I think it is appropriate that you go
through the Department of Justice and
make sure you are doing everything
right, and we need to hear from the
DNI tomorrow.
We also have received the transcripts
of the conversation between the Presi-
dent of Ukraine and the President of
the United States. The President made
supposedly, and is being accused of
making, a mysterious promise to
Zelensky in return for Ukraine reviv-
ing an investigation against Joe Biden
and his son. In fact, there was no such
promise. The President wanted allega-
tions of corruption potentially involv-
ing an American official to be inves-
tigated.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.031 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7923
September 25, 2019
What I see in this transcript is the
President of one country speaking to a
President of another country about
trying to eliminate corruption within
their government.
The other comment that had been
made is the President offered a quid
pro quo related to military aid for
Ukraine. There is no quid pro quo in
that conversation. There is no mention
of an aid package to Ukraine at all. It
is not in there at all. So while one
might want to keep saying that, it is
not in there.
Another myth, the President urged
President Zelensky to work with Rudy
Giuliani to investigate Biden’s involve-
ment in securing the firing of a
Ukrainian prosecutor eight times.
Fact: The President mentioned Rudy
Giuliani in that conversation only
after Zelensky mentioned him first and
referred to Biden in only one exchange.
I, myself, have some confusion on
what the rules are within the intel-
ligence community and involving the
executive branch. A couple of years ago
in an open hearing, when we were dis-
cussing with John Brennan—this was
in an open hearing—the former CIA di-
rector, obviously an expert in intel-
ligence, when I asked him about the
conversation between President Obama
and President Medvedev where it was
caught on tape where he said:
I’ll have more flexibility after my election.
Medvedev said:
I stand with you, and I will let President
Putin know.
I asked him if that was a red flag. His
answer was:
I am not going to comment on a private
conversation between two heads of state.
b 1500
Since that time, I have wondered
what the rules are within the intel-
ligence community. Are conversations
between two heads of state completely
off-limits within the IC? I don’t know.
I have asked that question time and
time again. I have asked some high-
ranking officials who should know the
answer to that, and I have gotten no
answer.
What I have heard in the testimony
here today, I heard someone say,
‘‘favor,’’ ‘‘favor,’’ in response to the po-
tential of this President asking for a
favor. I did not see that, and I don’t
know who made the quote. I would like
some clarification on that.
Where we stand right now is kind of
a recurring playbook. It is always mov-
ing the goalpost, right?
We want to see these documents.
Okay. The President has given you
the documents.
Okay. We are going to see what the
whistleblower had to say.
And now, what do we hear? Well, I
am concerned that there may be more
out there that we are not getting.
It is always moving the goalpost.
Listen, I speak in favor of this reso-
lution. We should get to it, move on
with the business of the country.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H. Res.
576.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, we are here today
because, over a month ago, a coura-
geous employee or detailee or con-
tractor within the intelligence commu-
nity brought to the inspector general a
complaint that the inspector general
reviewed. He had 14 days to review that
complaint.
The inspector general found that
complaint credible, found that com-
plaint urgent, and found that that
complaint should be provided to Con-
gress, as the whistleblower intended.
That complaint then went to the Di-
rector of National Intelligence, who
had 1 week to review it. Then the stat-
ute says that complaint shall be pro-
vided to the committee—not ‘‘may,’’
not ‘‘might,’’ not ‘‘if the DOJ doesn’t
write an opinion,’’ not ‘‘if the White
House doesn’t like it.’’ It says ‘‘shall’’
transmit to the committee.
The reason Congress wrote the stat-
ute that way is that, particularly in
the intelligence community, we are re-
liant on whistleblowers. Through the
vast majority of our hearings, there
are no witnesses. They are not con-
ducted in open session. There are not
outside stakeholders who can tell us
that what this agency represented or
that agency said is not correct.
We are reliant on the intelligence
community to self-report, and most of
the time they do. When they don’t, we
are completely reliant on whistle-
blowers. If the whistleblower process
doesn’t work, if the subject of a com-
plaint by a whistleblower can be held
up by the subject of that complaint—
that is, if the whistleblower says that
the impropriety that they have evi-
dence of was committed by X person,
and X person is given the discretion to
decide whether Congress ever sees that
report—that system is broken. That is
certainly not how Congress intended it.
Presuming that this complaint in-
volves the conversation that we are
now witness to because some readout
of that conversation was made public,
that whistleblower may have been try-
ing to communicate to Congress that
the President of the United States was
pressuring a foreign President to man-
ufacture dirt on his political opponent
for help in his Presidential campaign
and doing so at a time when the Presi-
dent of the United States was with-
holding military support that we ap-
proved on a bipartisan basis.
Now we see that readout says that,
after the Ukraine President expressed
the need for further arms to the United
States, our President said: We are
doing a lot for Ukraine. We are doing
more for Ukraine than other countries.
But you know something? There is not
much reciprocity here. I have a favor I
would like to ask. I want you to inves-
tigate my opponent, and I am going to
have my Attorney General and my per-
sonal lawyer follow up with you.
This was the constant theme of the
President’s request to the President of
Ukraine. It wasn’t, what are the na-
tional security needs of Ukraine? It
wasn’t, what are the economic needs of
Ukraine? It wasn’t, what are the sepa-
ratists doing in Ukraine?
It was: This is what I want from you.
I have done so much for Ukraine. We
have done so much for Ukraine. This is
what we want of you.
The idea that a complaint with these
allegations, if indeed this complaint is
about this call, would be withheld from
Congress and would be withheld on the
basis of an opinion written by the At-
torney General, someone who was men-
tioned in that very conversation,
screams of conflict of interest, if not
far worse.
When we brought this resolution up a
month after this complaint was filed,
and we brought it up in the Rules Com-
mittee last night, the argument was
that this is premature. The argument
here today is that this is postmature. I
guess this is never mature. It is never
mature for the Congress to insist that
the Director follow the law.
Apparently, we need second opinions
on whether ‘‘shall’’ really means
‘‘shall.’’ That is why we are here.
If we don’t validate the whistle-
blower process, if we leave the whistle-
blower unprotected, even as the Presi-
dent suggests that the whistleblower
has somehow betrayed his or her coun-
try, that system is broken, meaning
corruption will not be exposed. The
corruption here involves the suborning
of our national security to our Presi-
dent’s political needs. That is what is
at stake here.
Madam Speaker, that is why I urge
my colleagues to support this resolu-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Louisiana (Mr. SCALISE), the renowned
minority whip.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
WENSTRUP) for yielding.
As we are talking about this resolu-
tion, and as my colleagues from Ohio
and from California earlier talked
about, as we speak, the White House is
actually transmitting the documents
that are mentioned in the resolution.
The White House has been going
overboard, doing more than has been
done before, to make sure that Con-
gress has all the information it needs
about this issue.
I think what really is at question is
where this all leads to, and I think we
know where it all leads to. This all
started with an intention by many in
the majority. When they took the ma-
jority, it was that they were going to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.033 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7924 September 25, 2019
try to work to impeach the President.
Many of them talked about it. They
didn’t even have the gavels in their
hands yet, and they were talking about
impeaching the President.
The chairman of the Committee on
the Judiciary said he wants to bring
Articles of Impeachment to the House
floor by the end of this year. Keep in
mind, there is not a single Article of
Impeachment that they have listed be-
cause there have been no crimes.
They thought the Mueller report was
going to give them the crimes. It
turned out it showed there was no col-
lusion. Instead of wrapping it up, they
move on to look for something else.
It is not the job of a prosecutor, by
the way, to hope to go indict somebody
and then look around to see if they find
evidence. They are supposed to follow
facts. If the facts lead them there, that
is where they go. That is not happening
here.
When you saw the Speaker of the
House yesterday saying that the Presi-
dent committed crimes, please name
one crime that has been listed.
We have seen the report now, the
transcript of a conversation between
President Trump and President
Zelensky of Ukraine. There are a lot of
niceties here, the President congratu-
lating him on winning an election.
There is not a single quid pro quo,
which we were told there would be.
There is not an exertion of pressure,
which we were told there would be.
Now, they bring up Joe Biden. Joe
Biden, himself, has said that he exerted
pressure on the Ukrainians, bragged
about the fact that he withheld $1 bil-
lion in aid from the Ukrainians.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Louisiana an
additional 1 minute.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Ohio.
Again, when we talk about some-
thing as serious as impeachment, and
obviously, that is where they have said
they would go, the Speaker said she
wants to get the committee working
toward an impeachment inquiry.
Why? Why, Madam Speaker, haven’t
they brought a vote here on this House
floor to start an impeachment inquiry?
They are scared to death of having a
vote on this House floor on impeach-
ment. Yet, they keep moving down
that train track.
It is a reckless track, when they say
that they are going to bring impeach-
ment. Even the people who have read
this, not one of them has pointed out a
high crime or misdemeanor that is in
here.
The quid pro quo that they promised
doesn’t exist. These are the same peo-
ple who promised that there was collu-
sion, with the Mueller report, and
there was no collusion.
Instead of moving on, they keep
going down the impeachment path.
People are sick and tired of the con-
stant harassment of the President.
Go read the transcript, and you will
see, again, a President congratulating
another President who was elected on a
platform to root out corruption, and he
is working to root out corruption. We
ought to cheer that.
Instead of doing this, we ought to be
focused on things like USMCA, low-
ering drug prices, solving real prob-
lems. Let’s move on.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, with
respect to my colleague, the only cor-
ruption the President seems to be con-
cerned about is corruption that he is
not involved with, and that seems to be
an increasingly narrow category.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. CAR-
SON).
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of this
resolution demanding that the admin-
istration release the whistleblower
complaint to Congress.
Every American ought to be ex-
tremely concerned by circumstances
surrounding this urgent complaint and
outraged that this President and mem-
bers of his administration are hiding it.
Congress has a constitutional duty,
Madam Speaker, to obtain this infor-
mation by the deadline required by
law. The administration is blocking
our ability to gather the information
necessary to respond to the public’s
needs. In this case, these needs are in-
separable from our security, our safety,
and the well-being of our Nation.
Congress is entitled to the full com-
plaint, not only for the sake of na-
tional security, Madam Speaker, but to
ensure that our ability to hold public
servants accountable remains.
This isn’t about partisan politics.
This is about protecting our democracy
and its people.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this resolution.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. SPANO).
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to express my disappointment at
what the House is devoting its time to
this afternoon. It is certainly not the
issues that my constituents elected me
to come to Washington to advocate for
on their behalf.
We are not on the floor today talking
about how we can improve care and
services for veterans. We are not talk-
ing about how to fix the crumbling in-
frastructure, how to fix the broken im-
migration system. We are not talking
about how to modernize and personally
tailor healthcare. We are not on the
floor talking about how we can con-
tinue to implement policies to further
strengthen our booming economy.
Instead, we again find ourselves on
the House floor talking about Presi-
dent Trump and his administration.
Sound familiar? This morning, in the
interest of full transparency, the
Trump administration released the
complete memorandum outlining the
telephone conversation between the
President and the Ukrainian President,
just as the President promised he
would do yesterday. But before reading
the transcript, my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle prejudged the
memo and called for impeachment.
Did the Speaker wait to see and re-
view this information? No. Instead, she
went before the American people to an-
nounce that the House would begin the
formal impeachment inquiry into
President Trump.
Well, I read the transcript, and I
don’t see the bombshell that the Demo-
crats promised. There is no quid pro
quo, no this for that. Nowhere does the
President say that he will withhold
military aid unless the Ukrainian in-
vestigation continues. It is simply not
there.
Rushing to judgment and overprom-
ising, if it sounds familiar, that is be-
cause it is. We waited nearly 2 years
for Special Counsel Mueller to finish
his report on the 2016 election. Over
and over, we heard Democrats promise
the report would lead to President
Trump’s impeachment. After a dis-
appointing report and an even more
disappointing appearance by the spe-
cial counsel before Congress, they went
fishing for new reasons to attack the
President.
What happened to the standard of in-
nocent until proven guilty in this
country? I learned that in law school.
How have we strayed so far from this
fundamental principle?
The Democrats are operating under
the presumptive belief that the Presi-
dent is guilty. They believe if they
look long enough and hard enough,
maybe, just maybe, they will uncover
something, anything, that they can im-
peach him for.
This is wrong, and I will not support
their efforts. I will not stand by si-
lently while it happens. If my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
truly believe that this warrants im-
peachment, and if they are not willing
to wait 1 day to read the transcript,
then why are they sending us back to
our districts for the next 2 weeks?
The majority leader said this morn-
ing there are no plans to cancel the re-
cess because it is important Members
go home to their constituents and ex-
plain what we are doing. In other
words, they still need to convince the
American people that today’s revela-
tions, which didn’t live up to their
promises, should lead to President
Trump’s removal from office.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Florida an
additional 1 minute.
b 1515
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I call
on the Democrat leadership to keep us
in session the first 2 weeks of October,
if this is as urgent and as serious as
they are telling the American people.
I will not support the political im-
peachment that Democrats are inces-
santly pursuing. I implore this House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.035 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7925
September 25, 2019
and its leadership to put this behind us
once and for all and get to work, get to
work and do the important work that
the American people sent us here to do.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. QUIGLEY).
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, a
point of clarification: Quid pro quo ex-
ists on its face in what we reviewed
just today. But, for the record, crimi-
nal conduct does not have to be quid
pro quo.
The President asked a foreign gov-
ernment to investigate his political
rival and interfere in our election.
The response by my friends across
the aisle has also confirmed something
else I have had a suspicion about: They
have an extraordinary sense of humor.
They imagine that this administration
would have released this whatever it is
this morning relating to a transcript,
the complaint, and allowed the DNI to
formally testify and the complaining
witness to testify just because the
President thought we should know, not
because there was a complaining wit-
ness.
Without the complaining witness, no
one knows about this—without their
courage. That emphasizes the point of
how important complaining witnesses
are, because, without their courage, we
don’t know about wrongdoing or there
are further leaks, both of which put
our country at risk.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me make a few comments, if I
can.
This was reviewed by the criminal di-
vision of DOJ today that found no vio-
lation whatsoever.
Let me make another point, because
I have heard accusations along the way
that certain entities here in Congress
don’t care about whistleblower protec-
tions.
We do care. We care about the whis-
tleblower process. We care about their
protections. Let’s be perfectly clear on
that. As Republicans, and sitting on
the intelligence committee, we recog-
nize the value of this process. We are
for it.
We have heard a lot of comments,
yesterday especially, that were made
that would imply guilty until proven
innocent when we haven’t even seen
the whistleblower claim. We just got
the transcripts of the President with
the President of Ukraine today, and we
don’t even know the circumstances of
the claim.
I don’t know if anyone on the other
side has had contact with the whistle-
blower, but I know nothing about this
whistleblower except that there is a
whistleblower. And I have not seen the
complaint, and I look forward to seeing
it.
We have been through a lot as a
country. Time and time again, our
country gets challenged—challenged
from outside, challenged from within.
We have been through a lot.
As Mr. SPANO alluded, we are about
ready to go home. Yet we have got an
urgent matter on our hands, we have
been told; yet leadership is saying: But
just go home.
Well, if this is such an urgent matter,
why are we going home?
And I also will bring up the point
again that tomorrow we are scheduled
to hear from the DNI. Let’s give that
process its due, and let’s know facts be-
fore we speak and before we pass judg-
ment. That is all we are asking to do.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER).
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chair of the committee for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, this is a powder
keg. This is not as my colleagues on
the other side are trying to suggest it
is, but they are dealing with alter-
native facts.
As co-chair of the Whistleblower Cau-
cus, I can point to the fact that $54 bil-
lion has been returned to the taxpayers
of this country because men and
women had the courage to stand up and
point out tax evasion, fraud, abuse, and
waste.
Now, we have a whistleblower here
who was defined as not being a whistle-
blower by the Attorney General, and
now we are all saying he is a whistle-
blower. He doesn’t even have the pro-
tections of a whistleblower based on
the analysis by the Attorney General.
One thing is very clear here, Mem-
bers: But for the fact that this whistle-
blower came forward, but for the fact
that the inspector general found that it
was both credible and urgent, and but
for the fact, after the DNI did not deem
it to be sent to the committee, it was
the inspector general who had the
courage to contact the chair of this
committee to inform him that there
was a whistleblower pending that
brought this all to the fore.
So let’s be very clear: There was a
concerted effort by the administration
to shut down this whistleblower, to re-
strict the money that was supposed to
go to Ukraine on June 18—or July 18.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. PELOSI),
the Speaker.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding, and I
commend him for his great patriotism,
for the equanimity that he brings to all
that he does with great wisdom and
judgment.
Madam Speaker, just over a week
ago, when our Nation observed the an-
niversary of the adoption of our Con-
stitution, on that very day, news broke
of great allegations which were a
threat to our Constitution.
On that day, the intelligence commu-
nity inspector general formally noti-
fied Congress that the administration
was forbidding him from turning over a
whistleblower complaint that he found
to be of ‘‘urgent concern’’ and ‘‘cred-
ible.’’
The administration’s refusal to turn
over the full complaint is a violation of
the law, which is unequivocal, stating
that the DNI, the Director of National
Intelligence, shall provide Congress
with the full complaint.
I repeat, that obligation is manda-
tory.
Shortly thereafter, the American
people learned of a phone call from the
White House calling upon a foreign
power to intervene in the upcoming
election. Today’s release of the notes of
the call by the White House confirms
this behavior, which undermines the
integrity of our elections, the dignity
of any Presidency, and our national se-
curity.
Let us repeat the facts:
The intelligence community inspec-
tor general, who was appointed by
President Trump, determined that the
complaint was both of ‘‘urgent concern
and credible,’’ and its disclosure ‘‘re-
lates to one of the most significant and
important of the Director of National
Intelligence’s responsibilities to the
American people.’’
I want to talk a moment, Madam
Speaker, if I may, about whistle-
blowers.
First, let me say what an asset the
intelligence community is to the secu-
rity of our country. We talk about our
men and women in uniform, and we
praise them. We could never thank
them enough. Our intelligence commu-
nity personnel are a significant part of
the national security of our country.
Whistleblowers, in any part of the
government, are important, but whis-
tleblowers can be defined as an act of
reporting waste, fraud, abuse, and cor-
ruption in a lawful manner to those
who can correct the wrongdoing.
The intelligence community has pub-
licly recognized the importance of
whistle blowing and supports protec-
tions for whistleblowers who conform
to guidelines to protect classified in-
formation.
This is a very important balance, and
when laws were written—and I was
there for it as a member of the com-
mittee and as ranking member and
part of the Gang of Four, before I even
became part of the leadership. I saw
the evolution of these laws and then
the improvements on them, with fur-
ther protection for whistleblowers.
I was also there for the creation of
the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence and the relationship be-
tween the two, and it is a careful bal-
ance of protecting whistleblowers but
also protecting our national security
and our intelligence—our intelligence.
So, in any event, one of the bills we
wrote was the Intelligence Community
Whistleblower Protection Act. The law
plays a vital role in our democracy. It
enables our system of separation of
powers to maintain the rule of law by
making sure that the abuses of unlaw-
ful actions are known, first through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.037 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7926 September 25, 2019
the inspector general of the intel-
ligence community, and then the con-
gressional intelligence committees,
House and Senate, which can act upon
it.
The statute does not permit the DNI
to second-guess the inspector general’s
determination of any complaint he
finds to be ‘‘credible.’’ At no point in
the history of this law has a DNI ever
refused to turn over a whistleblower’s
complaint that has been found by the
IG as ‘‘credible.’’ Refusing to do this is
a violation of the law.
Our national security depends on this
framework. This vote today is about
more than just any one President. This
resolution is about the preservation of
our American system of government.
Once we pass this resolution—and I
acknowledge that we are joining the
Senate, which passed it without objec-
tion yesterday, unanimously—the DNI
will be faced with a choice: to honor
his responsibility to help preserve our
Republic or to break the law.
This resolution passed by unanimous
consent—I repeat—in the Senate.
Every Member, Democratic and Repub-
lican, should join us in passing this in
the House.
While we await the release of the full
complaint, we reiterate our call for the
release of the full transcript of the call
between President Trump and the
Ukrainian President and reiterate our
call to protect whistleblowers from re-
taliation.
Madam Speaker, I urge a bipartisan
vote to defend our national security
and to protect our democracy.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SWALWELL).
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Speaker, the gentleman from
Ohio had asked earlier: Where does it
say in the President’s notes—and these
are notes; this is not a transcript—the
word, ‘‘favor’’?
Page 3, I would direct the gentleman:
‘‘I would like you to do us a favor,’’ the
President of the United States says.
And the problem with this mob-like
tactic is that, when you ask someone
to do a favor, you owe that person
something in return. And, when that
person is a foreign leader, that means,
as President of the United States, one
day you will have to put a foreign lead-
er’s interests ahead of America’s inter-
ests.
This is only the tip of the iceberg,
this note that the President has re-
leased, and that is why it is important
that we hear from the whistleblower.
It is also important to note that
Ukraine depends on the U.S. economi-
cally, militarily, and the credibility we
afford to them when we support them.
So, you don’t need to be explicit with
them when you tell them that you need
a favor and you are withholding mili-
tary funds.
In this case, the whistleblower did
everything right; so now it is time for
the Acting Director of National Intel-
ligence to do the same.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CASTRO).
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I, too, look forward to review-
ing the whistleblower’s complaint,
shortly.
I want to start by saying thank you
to the whistleblower. We don’t know if
it is a man or a woman, the person’s
identity, yet, but I want to say thank
you for having the courage and the
bravery to come forward and reveal—at
least in terms of what we have seen
from the transcript—abuse of power by
the President of the United States.
We must protect a whistleblower who
comes forward and puts himself or her-
self and their career on the line. I hope
that this Congress will be committed
to doing that.
These are very serious charges, an
abuse of power that includes coercing a
foreign leader into digging up dirt
against a political rival for the Presi-
dent’s political gain, to win reelection;
asking a personal lawyer, his personal
lawyer, to go along with this.
It appears as though the State De-
partment and, perhaps, the Secretary
of State may also be implicated in this
scandal.
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
passing this resolution. I hope all will
support it.
b 1530
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from
Vermont (Mr. WELCH).
Mr. WELCH. Madam Speaker, this
resolution really raises a question to
each one of us who is a Member of Con-
gress; and that question is: Do we be-
lieve in the separate, independent au-
thority of the legislative branch to
conduct oversight?
The contents of this resolution and
the whistleblower report, to be sure,
are extremely explosive and important.
But the question that we have to ask,
as a Congress, Republicans and Demo-
crats, is: Are we willing to stand up for
the constitutional authority of the
House as a representative branch of
government?
That is the constitutional question.
This resolution goes to the heart of our
responsibility. We must pass it in order
for us to be a coequal branch of govern-
ment.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from Connecticut (Mr. HIMES),
and I ask unanimous consent that he
may control that time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY).
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Madam Speaker, if I under-
stand, the Republican argument is that
the document doesn’t contain an ex-
plicit quid pro quo.
Well, let me remind my friends, you
don’t need to state an explicit quid pro
quo to break your oath. You don’t need
to state an explicit quid pro quo to
break the law. You don’t need to state
an explicit quid pro quo when you have
conducted the quid pro quo, when you
have withheld the military aid.
You don’t need to state an explicit
quid pro quo when you have launched a
cover-up by violating the law by refus-
ing to produce the whistleblower com-
plaint as you are required to do.
All of these actions are contained in
the recent statements of the President
and in the plain language of the White
House document. And the idea, the idea
that we can’t wait a day to get the
transcript ignores the fact that, for
three weeks, they have ignored the law
in producing the whistleblower com-
plaint; and we would not have it ever if
it weren’t for the actions of the Demo-
crats in this House.
And the talking point that this issue
should hinge on the explicitness of the
quid pro quo is nothing more than a
smokescreen to hide the fact that the
President’s conduct is a violation of
the law, and a violation of his oath,
and more than justifies the production
of the whistleblower complaint and the
launching of an impeachment inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. WOODALL).
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
WENSTRUP) for yielding the time.
I listened to what my friend just
came to the well to say, and it sounds
as if we are not working on a non-
binding House Resolution today. It
sounds as if we are working on Articles
of Impeachment today. If folks want to
get on to Articles of Impeachment, get
on with it.
I want to associate myself with my
friend from Vermont who said this is
an Article I, Article II question. And I
want to ask my colleagues, again, if
you are ready to get going with im-
peachment articles, bring them, and
let’s have that debate on the floor.
This is a nonbinding resolution that
says to our coequal branch of govern-
ment, we have an oversight responsi-
bility, and we want to see some paper-
work. Now, the Senate already passed
the same nonbinding resolution yester-
day. We are not breaking any new
ground here.
But, yes, if the Intelligence Com-
mittee wants to review documents in a
closed session, they ought to have ac-
cess to those documents. That is not a
complicated question.
I want to ask my colleagues how we
are advantaged as an institution by
turning this into an us against them.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.038 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7927
September 25, 2019
Again, when you get ready to go
down the Articles of Impeachment, it
is going to be an us against them. I
have seen no crimes and lots of hear-
ings. I have heard lots of promises and
absolutely no there, there.
But we have an opportunity, I dare
say, an obligation, to conduct our-
selves in a way that, forbid the
thought, should one day our Nation
have to go down that path, we have the
credibility to lead that discussion.
You have an hour of debate here that
we can absolutely use, and the Speaker
can continue to admonish Members not
to engage in personalities with the
President. We can absolutely conduct
ourselves in that way if that is what we
would like.
Or we could follow the pathway of
the United States; do this in a bipar-
tisan way to say we have got a coequal
branch of government that has a right
to see these documents and be done
with it.
I will remind my colleagues who are
raising their constitutional ire today
that this institution held President
Obama’s Attorney General in both civil
and criminal contempt, and we got no
support, save 17 Members, to make
that happen.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, may I
inquire as to the time remaining for
the majority.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Connecticut has 61⁄2 min-
utes remaining.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Mrs. DEMINGS).
Mrs. DEMINGS. Madam Speaker, Re-
publican President Teddy Roosevelt
said that ‘‘patriotism means to stand
by the country.’’ It does not mean to
stand by the President at any cost.
The whistleblower is a patriot who
stood up for their country. It is time
for Americans of good conscience,
starting with every member of this
committee, to follow in that patriot’s
footsteps and unite behind the belief
that no one is above the law.
The President has abused the powers
of his office. Perhaps he is afraid of los-
ing the next election. Perhaps it is just
who he is.
When the President of Ukraine
brought up a request to buy military
equipment from the United States, the
President said—and yes, it is quite
clear—‘‘I would like you to do us a
favor.’’
But even worse, press reports indi-
cate that the whistleblower’s com-
plaint was far more extensive than any
one call.
The ongoing cover-up by this White
House has prevented us from imme-
diately reviewing the report that is re-
quired by law.
Further, the administration must
immediately move to ensure that the
whistleblower is fully protected as re-
quired under law.
To my colleagues, history is about to
be written at this moment. I ask you
to think about your place in that his-
tory. Decide whether you want to de-
fend and stand up for corruption or
abuse of power or stand up for the
country we all swore to protect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
It may turn out that this resolution
is unnecessary. I understand proce-
dures are being made to provide the
complaint, I hope, the full whistle-
blower complaint, to the Congress and,
specifically, to the Intelligence Com-
mittee. If that is true, that is a good
first step. It is a step, of course, that is
remedying the blatant violation of law
that this administration engaged in
when they chose to stop the trans-
mittal of that complaint to the Con-
gress.
But I do want to take this oppor-
tunity to just clear up some things
that were said, because these are seri-
ous matters, and it is important that
the American people understand the
truth.
Mr. SCALISE came before this body
and ridiculed the majority, saying that
we had promised a quid pro quo, a
statement that is, of course, absurd on
the face of it. We made no such prom-
ise. In fact, we have spent the day ex-
plaining that a quid pro quo is not nec-
essary for the kind of extortion that is
evident in the so-called transcript that
we received today.
Bribery requires a quid pro quo; if
you do this, I will pay you that. Extor-
tion is simply saying you better do me
a favor, or else.
So there was no promise of a quid pro
quo. Neither is it necessary for this be-
havior to be well beyond the pale.
And I would remind my friends in the
minority that we did not bring this
moment upon the Congress. The in-
spector general came to this Congress
of his own volition and, I would add, at
significant personal risk, because of his
concern over the actions of the admin-
istration.
It emerges today that the Acting DNI
perhaps threatened to resign his posi-
tion unless the Department of Justice
gave a legal justification for his
stance.
So we are not here because we want
to be here. The Speaker of the House,
as every Member of this Chamber
knows, has resisted, until yesterday,
even using the word impeachment be-
cause she is that focused on the senti-
ment of the American people and the
consequences of that dramatic step.
So I do not want to hear from my
friends in the minority that this has
been a train that we have been bar-
reling down.
We are not here because we are
happy. We are here because there is a
genuine threat to this republic and to
this democracy. We were brought here
by members of the administration who
raised their hand and said something is
not right.
So this resolution and its contents
may be remedied later this afternoon; I
certainly hope so. But let’s be clear
about what really happened and how
we got here, because I suspect this is
not the final word in this discussion,
and the American people deserve to
know the truth.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I heard something
before, that no one asks for a favor
that doesn’t want something in return.
You know, when my wife asks me for a
favor, I don’t ask for something in re-
turn, I have got to tell you.
And I have to say, I agree with what
Mr. WELCH had to say today. I thank
the gentleman for his words. We do
have an oversight, but we also have a
process in our country.
So I am very curious to hear tomor-
row, fortunately, in an open hearing,
what the DNI has to say, and how he
may have interpreted the law dif-
ferently, or DOJ did. And I think that
the American people deserve that, and
I am glad it is going to be in an open
hearing.
There is a lot we can talk about. We
can go back and forth on this. But I
will tell you, amongst my constituents,
what I hear at home is that there is a
lot of hypocrisy out here.
When you talk about having over-
sight, or quid pro quo, and you are only
willing to look at one side of it, or one
event of it, or one possible event of it,
I should say, only willing to look in
one direction, you lose the trust of the
American people. You lose the trust of
the American people.
When I was a child, I watched the
Watergate hearings. Do you know what
I was impressed with?
You had both sides of the aisle seek-
ing the truth, regardless of who was in
power or who was in question.
We haven’t seen that for 3 years. So,
let’s get this resolution on the floor. It
is a foregone conclusion. We are all in
agreement. This is something we want
brought forward. Half of it already has
been, and the other half is being deliv-
ered at 4:00.
That is what we were here to debate
today, this resolution. You wouldn’t
know it was a resolution we were all in
favor of. So let’s have our vote and
move on.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise to support H. Res. 576—Expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives with
respect to the whistleblower complaint of Au-
gust 12, 2019, made to the Inspector General
of the Intelligence Community.
Allegations that the President of the United
States sought to enlist a foreign government
to interfere in our democratic process by in-
vestigating one of his political rivals, and may
have used the withholding of Congressionally
appropriated military aid, days earlier as intimi-
dation, is a clear problem. We must have all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.040 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7928 September 25, 2019
of the facts so that we can do what is required
under law and get to the bottom of what actu-
ally took place. This is not a partisan matter.
It is an American matter that must be inves-
tigated so that we can continue to protect our
democracy against outside attacks.
This resolution expresses the sense of the
House that the whistleblower complaint re-
ceived on August 12, 2019, by the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community should
be transmitted immediately to the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate and the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives.
Our Constitution demands respect for the
rule of law. As a Member of Congress, I will
continue to uphold our American principles
and values. I urge passage of this resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 577,
the previous question is ordered on the
resolution, as amended.
The question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
b 1545
HOMELAND SECURITY
IMPROVEMENT ACT
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution
577, I call up the bill (H.R. 2203) to in-
crease transparency, accountability,
and community engagement within the
Department of Homeland Security,
provide independent oversight of bor-
der security activities, improve train-
ing for agents and officers of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment, and for other purposes, and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ESPAILLAT). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 577, in lieu of the amendment in
the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Home-
land Security printed in the bill, an
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–27, modified by
the amendment printed in House Re-
port 116–217, is adopted and the bill, as
amended, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 2203
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF
THE OMBUDSMAN FOR BORDER AND
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT RE-
LATED CONCERNS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 711. OMBUDSMAN FOR BORDER AND IMMI-
GRATION ENFORCEMENT RELATED
CONCERNS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Within the Department
there shall be a position of Ombudsman for Bor-
der and Immigration Enforcement Related Con-
cerns (in this section referred to as the ‘Ombuds-
man’), who shall—
‘‘(1) be independent of Department agencies
and officers;
‘‘(2) report directly to the Secretary; and
‘‘(3) have a background in immigration law,
civil rights, and law enforcement.
‘‘(b) FUNCTIONS.—It shall be the function of
the Ombudsman to—
‘‘(1) in coordination with the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department, establish an inde-
pendent, neutral, accessible, confidential, and
standardized process to assist individuals (in-
cluding aliens (as such term is defined in section
101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1101)) in resolving complaints with re-
spect to U.S. Customs and Border Protection,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a
subcontractor, or a cooperating entity, which
process shall include a publicly accessible
website through which a complainant can check
on the status of such a complaint;
‘‘(2) identify and thereafter review, examine,
and make recommendations to the Secretary to
address chronic issues identified by the Ombuds-
man in carrying out the function described in
paragraph (1);
‘‘(3) establish a Border Oversight Panel in ac-
cordance with subsection (f); and
‘‘(4) review compliance with departmental
policies and standards of care for custody of
aliens by U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, including any violations of applicable pol-
icy or standards of care involving force-feeding.
‘‘(c) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The existence of a
complaint, including the identity of any Depart-
ment employee implicated in a complaint, shall
be kept confidential by the Ombudsman and, in
the absence of the written consent of an indi-
vidual who submits a complaint, the Ombuds-
man shall keep confidential the identity of and
any identifying information relating to such in-
dividual. Such confidentiality requirement may
not be considered as a factor of whether or not
information under this subsection may be dis-
closed under section 552 of title 5, United Stated
Code (commonly referred to as the Freedom of
Information Act).
‘‘(d) ANNUAL REPORTING.—Not later than
June 30 of each year beginning in the year after
the date of the enactment of this section, the
Ombudsman shall submit to the Committee on
Homeland Security and the Committee on the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs and the Committee on the Ju-
diciary of the Senate a report that includes, for
the previous year, the following:
‘‘(1) The number and types of complaints re-
ceived under this section and for each com-
plaint—
‘‘(A) the component or subcomponent, subcon-
tractor, or cooperating entity identified;
‘‘(B) the demographics of the complainant;
and
‘‘(C) a description of the resolution of the
complaint or the status of the resolution process.
‘‘(2) Any complaint pattern that could be pre-
vented or reduced by policy training or practice
changes.
‘‘(3) A description of any pattern of violations
of any applicable policy or standards.
‘‘(4) A description of each complaint received
under this section with respect to which U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, a subcontractor,
or a cooperating entity, as applicable, has taken
action to resolve, and the time between receipt
and resolution of each such complaint.
‘‘(5) A description of complaints received
under this section for which action has not been
taken after one year, and the period during
which each complaint has been open.
‘‘(6) Recommendations the Ombudsman has
made under subsection (b)(2).
‘‘(7) Other information, as determined appro-
priate by the Ombudsman .
‘‘(e) APPOINTMENT OF BORDER COMMUNITIES
LIAISON.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Ombudsman, in con-
junction with the Office for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties of the Department, shall appoint
a Border Community Liaison (in this subsection
referred to as the ‘Liaison’) in each U.S. Border
Patrol sector on the northern and southern bor-
ders. Each Liaison shall report to the Ombuds-
man.
‘‘(2) PURPOSES.—Each Liaison appointed
under this subsection shall—
‘‘(A) foster cooperation between U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and border communities;
‘‘(B) consult with border communities on the
development of policies, directives, and pro-
grams of U.S. Customs and Border Protection
and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment;
‘‘(C) receive feedback from border communities
on the performance of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement; and
‘‘(D) submit to the Ombudsman an annual re-
port detailing their findings, feedback received
from border communities, and recommendations
to increase cooperation between U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and border communities.
‘‘(f) BORDER OVERSIGHT PANEL.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Ombudsman shall
establish a Border Oversight Panel (in this sub-
section referred to as the ‘Panel’).
‘‘(2) COMPOSITION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Panel shall be com-
posed of 30 members selected by the Ombuds-
man.
‘‘(B) CHAIRPERSON.—The Ombudsman shall be
the chair of the Panel.
‘‘(C) EXPERTISE.—Members of the Panel shall
have expertise in immigration, local crime indi-
ces, civil and human rights, community rela-
tions, cross-border trade and commerce, quality
of life indicators, or other experience the Om-
budsman determines is appropriate, and shall
include individuals who reside in or near border
counties.
‘‘(3) DUTIES.—The Panel shall evaluate and
make recommendations regarding the border en-
forcement policies, strategies, and programs of
the Department operating along the northern
and southern borders of the United States to—
‘‘(A) take into consideration the impact of
such policies, strategies, and programs on border
communities, including protecting due process,
civil and human rights of border residents and
visitors, and private property rights of land
owners;
‘‘(B) uphold domestic and international legal
obligations;
‘‘(C) reduce the number of migrant deaths;
and
‘‘(D) improve the safety of agents and officers
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
‘‘(g) STAFFING.—The Secretary shall take ap-
propriate action to ensure the Ombudsman’s of-
fice is sufficiently staffed and resourced to carry
out its duties effectively and efficiently.
‘‘(h) TRAINING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Ombudsman shall con-
duct a yearly evaluation of all training given to
agents and officers of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each evaluation under para-
graph (1) shall include whether the training re-
ferred to in such paragraph adequately address-
es the following:
‘‘(A) Best practices in community policing,
cultural awareness, and carrying out enforce-
ment actions near sensitive locations, such as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.015 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7929
September 25, 2019
places of worship or religious ceremony, school
or education-related places or events, court-
houses or other civic buildings providing serv-
ices accessible to the public, hospitals, medical
treatment or health care facilities, public dem-
onstrations, and attorney’s offices (including a
public defender or legal aid offices).
‘‘(B) Policies for operating in locations where
there are limitations on cooperation by local law
enforcement.
‘‘(C) Interaction with vulnerable populations,
including instruction on screening, identifying,
and responding to vulnerable populations, such
as children, victims of human trafficking, and
the acutely ill.
‘‘(D) Standards of professional and ethical
conduct, including the following:
‘‘(i) Lawful use of force, de-escalation tactics,
and alternatives to the use of force.
‘‘(ii) Complying with chain of command and
lawful orders.
‘‘(iii) Conduct and ethical behavior toward
the public in a civil and professional manner.
‘‘(iv) Civil rights and legal protections for na-
tionals of the United States and aliens.
‘‘(v) Non-biased questioning.
‘‘(vi) Sensitivity towards lesbian, gay, bisex-
ual, transgender, and queer individuals.
‘‘(vii) Permissible and impermissible social
media activity.
‘‘(viii) Sexual and other harassment and as-
sault, including an assessment of whether ade-
quate policies exist to resolve complaints.
‘‘(E) Protecting the civil, constitutional,
human, and privacy rights of individuals, with
special emphasis on the scope of enforcement
authority, including chain of evidence practices
and document seizure, and use of force policies
available to agents and officers.
‘‘(F) Maintaining and updated understanding
of Federal legal rulings, court decisions, and
Department policies and procedures.
‘‘(G) The scope of agents’ and officers’ au-
thority to conduct immigration enforcement ac-
tivities, including interviews, interrogations,
stops, searches, arrests, and detentions, in addi-
tion to identifying and detecting fraudulent
documents.
‘‘(3) RECOMMENDATIONS.—Not later than 90
days after conducting each evaluation under
paragraph (1), the Ombudsman shall develop,
and submit to the Secretary, recommendations
regarding any additional training.
‘‘(4) FEEDBACK.—Not later than 180 days after
receiving recommendations transmitted by the
Ombudsman, the Secretary shall respond pub-
licly and in writing with feedback on each of
the recommendations, an action plan to imple-
ment any of such recommendations with which
the Secretary concurs, and a justification for
why any of such recommendations have been re-
jected.
‘‘(i) ELECTRONIC TRACKING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Ombudsman, in coordi-
nation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, the Director of U.S. Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement, and the
Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, shall de-
velop recommendations for the establishment of
an electronic tracking number system on a sin-
gle interface, which shall be used to track the
location of a child who has been separated from
a parent, legal guardian, or other relative of
such child, and which shall be accessible to
agents and officers of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and the Office of Refugee Resettle-
ment.
‘‘(2) TRACKING NUMBER.—The recommenda-
tions developed under this subsection shall con-
sider how a tracking number can be assigned to
a child who has been separated from a parent,
legal guardian, or other relative of such child
that—
‘‘(A) is transferrable;
‘‘(B) may be shared easily on the electronic
tracking system described in this subsection by
agents and officers of—
‘‘(i) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
‘‘(ii) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment; and
‘‘(iii) the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the
Department of Health and Human Services; and
‘‘(C) is interoperable with the electronic loca-
tion records of a parent, legal guardian, or
other relative of such child.
‘‘(j) BODY-WORN CAMERAS.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this section,
the Ombudsman, in coordination with the Com-
missioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Director of U.S. Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement, and labor organizations rep-
resenting agents and officers of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, shall submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security and the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs and the
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a plan
for requiring, not later than one year after such
date of enactment, the use of body-worn cam-
eras by U.S. Border Patrol agents and U.S. Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement officers
whenever such agents and officers are engaged
in border security or immigration enforcement
activities.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required under
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
‘‘(A) Benchmarks for implementation of the
use of body-worn cameras within U.S. Customs
and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.
‘‘(B) Policies, procedures, and training mod-
ules for the use of body-worn cameras by agents
and officers of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion and U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, including training modules relating
to the appropriate use of such cameras and ad-
verse action for non-compliance.
‘‘(C) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with
body-worn camera policies and procedures.
‘‘(3) CONSIDERATIONS.—The plan required
under paragraph (1) shall be informed by—
‘‘(A) existing State and local policies requiring
the use of body-worn cameras; and
‘‘(B) principles regarding body-worn cameras
published by major civil and human rights orga-
nizations.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is
amended by adding after the item relating to
section 710 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 711. Ombudsman for Border and Immigra-
tion Enforcement Related Con-
cerns.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
The gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) and the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. ROGERS) each will con-
trol 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2203, the Homeland
Security Improvement Act, as amend-
ed, seeks to enhance accountability for
how the Department of Homeland Se-
curity carries out its border security
and immigration enforcement activi-
ties.
For years, the complaints process at
DHS has been fragmented. While the
inspector general of DHS reviews alle-
gations of unlawful activity by Depart-
ment personnel, other complaints must
go through Customs and Border Pro-
tection or Immigration and Customs
Enforcement first.
Further, the process for filing a com-
plaint can be complicated and con-
fusing. Additionally, there is no cen-
tral mechanism for residents of border
communities to speak out about how
DHS’ operations affect their day-to-day
lives or the environment around them.
H.R. 2203, as we are considering it
today, would establish a new ombuds-
man to carry out an independent, neu-
tral, and confidential process to help
resolve complaints with respect to the
Department’s border and immigration
enforcement activities. The ombuds-
man would also note patterns in the
types of complaints received to iden-
tify any systemic issues.
The communities most directly im-
pacted by DHS’ border and immigra-
tion enforcement activities are those
that are on our borders with Mexico
and Canada.
Under H.R. 2203, the ombudsman
would appoint border community liai-
sons to serve in sectors along the
northern and southern borders to foster
better communication and meaningful
engagement with these communities.
The ombudsman is also required to
stand up a border oversight panel to
make recommendations on border and
immigration policies and programs
with attention to DHS activities that
affect due process, property rights, and
the safety of migrants and officers.
H.R. 2203 is also intended to ensure
greater oversight of the training that
frontline personnel receive. Specifi-
cally, the ombudsman would annually
evaluate the CBP and ICE agents and
officers training, particularly on stand-
ards for professional and ethical con-
duct, and make recommendations on
any needed improvements.
Additionally, the bill directs the om-
budsman to develop an implementation
plan to require the use of body-worn
cameras by Border Patrol agents and
ICE officers while engaged in border se-
curity or immigration enforcement ac-
tivities.
While the current administration’s
activities in this area warrant height-
ened scrutiny, several issues, such as
conditions in ICE detention or insuffi-
cient consultation with property own-
ers by U.S. Border Patrol, have per-
sisted for years.
H.R. 2203 represents a step in the
right direction to bring greater trans-
parency and accountability to DHS. I
urge my colleagues to support this leg-
islation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.016 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7930 September 25, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 18, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Homeland Security
Improvement Act’’ that fall with our Rule X
jurisdiction. I appreciate your consulting
with us on those provisions. The Judiciary
Committee has no objection to your includ-
ing them in the bill for consideration on the
House floor, and to expedite that consider-
ation is willing to waive sequential referral,
with the understanding that we do not there-
by waive any future jurisdictional claim
over those provisions or their subject mat-
ters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC July 18, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: Thank you for
your letter regarding H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Home-
land Security Improvement Act.’’ The Com-
mittee on Homeland Security recognizes
that the Committee on the Judiciary has a
jurisdictional interest in H.R. 2203, and I ap-
preciate your effort to allow this bill to be
considered on the House floor.
I concur with you that forgoing action on
the bill does not in any way prejudice the
Committee on the Judiciary with respect to
its jurisdictional prerogatives on this bill or
similar legislation in the future, and I would
support your effort to seek appointment of
an appropriate number of conferees to any
House—Senate conference involving this leg-
islation.
I will include our letters on H.R. 2203 in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of this bill. I look forward to working
with you on this legislation and other mat-
ters of great importance to this nation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, September 25, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN THOMPSON: In order to ex-
pedite consideration of H.R. 2203, the Home-
land Security Improvement Act, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means has agreed to
waive formal consideration of provisions
that fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee. We do so with the understanding
that the authority given to the Ombudsmen
in Title II of the bill, relating to the enforce-
ment activities of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, does not include authority to en-
force trade laws. The Committee also re-
serves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
I would appreciate your response to this
letter confirming this understanding and
would ask that a copy of our exchange of let-
ter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 2203.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC, September 25, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: Thank you for your
letter regarding H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Homeland
Security Improvement Act.’’ The Committee
on Homeland Security recognizes that the
Committee on Ways and Means has a juris-
dictional interest in H.R. 2203, and I appre-
ciate your effort to allow this bill to be con-
sidered on the House floor.
I concur with you that the authority given
to the Ombudsman in Title II of the bill is
not intended to include authority regarding
trade law enforcement complaints. Should
you choose to seek appointment of an appro-
priate number of conferees to any House—
Senate conference involving this legislation,
I would support that effort.
I will include our letters on H.R. 2203 in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of this bill. I look forward to working
with you on this legislation and other mat-
ters of great importance to this nation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to H.R. 2203.
Over this past fiscal year, law en-
forcement has encountered nearly a
million migrants illegally crossing the
southwest border.
For months, records of migrant fami-
lies and unaccompanied children over-
whelmed obsolete Customs and Border
Protection facilities, creating an un-
precedented humanitarian crisis. And
for months, Democrats did nothing.
They said the crisis wasn’t real. Then
they said the President manufactured
it.
Then, after months of ignoring pic-
tures of children and families living in
overcrowded conditions, Democrats fi-
nally agreed to the President’s request
for emergency funding. Now, thanks to
that funding and the administration’s
efforts to reach agreements with Mex-
ico and some Northern Triangle coun-
tries, the crisis has finally abated.
Congress should use this opportunity
to advance a bipartisan bill to address
the causes of the border crisis and pre-
vent another one from happening. Un-
fortunately, Democrats have chosen to
squander the opportunity. Instead,
they decided to move yet another par-
tisan messaging bill that stands no
chance of becoming law.
All this bill does is waste taxpayers’
dollars on a duplicative new office de-
signed to demoralize law enforcement
and serve the demands of illegal immi-
grants. It should really be called the il-
legal immigrant customer service act.
The bill creates a new ombudsman at
the Department of Homeland Security
to collect and review complaints made
by illegal immigrants against Federal
law enforcement officers.
The Department already has an Of-
fice of Inspector General and an Office
for Civil Rights and Liberties required
by law to collect and investigate com-
plaints against DHS personnel, as well
as recommended relief for the com-
plainant. Both offices maintain tip
lines for anonymous complaints and
websites to collect complaints, and
both regularly report to Congress on
their caseload.
It is unclear how creating another
bureaucrat with a duplicative mission
will improve the current process. It is
clear, however, that this new bureau-
crat will further demoralize the men
and women of law enforcement.
The bill empowers the ombudsman to
scrutinize the training and conduct of
ICE and CBP officers on an ongoing
basis.
The bill also includes a bogus over-
sight panel comprised of so-called qual-
ity of life indicators to make rec-
ommendations on how ICE and CBP of-
ficers should carry out their law en-
forcement mission.
Every day, the men and women of
ICE and CBP put their lives in danger
to keep our families and communities
safe. They faithfully and skillfully
carry out their duty to enforce Federal
immigration law. Congress should be
moving legislation to thank them, not
second-guess and criticize them.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation started
out as an attempt by Democrats to ap-
pease radical leftwing open border ac-
tivists. The original bill was chock-full
of so many absurd provisions that the
Speaker was forced to pull it from floor
consideration in July. The bill has been
rewritten six times to get it to this
point where just enough Democrats
will vote for it to pass it.
But it didn’t have to be such a par-
tisan exercise. We could have worked
together to move comprehensive legis-
lation to truly prevent another crisis
at our border.
Republicans are ready and willing to
work with Democrats on serious pro-
posals to reform our asylum laws to re-
duce the pull factors for illegal immi-
gration, to protect vulnerable families
and children from exploitation by
human smugglers, to expand migrant
processing and long-term housing fa-
cilities to eliminate dangerous over-
crowding, and to hire additional immi-
gration lawyers and judges to reduce
the unprecedented backlog in asylum
cases.
When this partisan bill fails to move
in the Senate, I hope Democrats will fi-
nally choose policy over politics and
will agree to work with Republicans on
solutions to our border security prob-
lems.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.044 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7931
September 25, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR),
the sponsor of this legislation.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 2203, the
Homeland Security Improvement Act.
I would first like to thank Speaker
PELOSI and Chairman THOMPSON for
their steadfast leadership and for help-
ing get this bill to the floor. Mr.
Speaker, this moment never would
have been possible without Mr. THOMP-
SON’s perseverance and hard work.
H.R. 2203 started at our southern bor-
der as a community-driven effort to
boost accountability and transparency
within DHS. To that end, I would like
to especially thank the Border Net-
work for Human Rights, an El Paso-
based organization that works tire-
lessly to ensure migrants and border
communities are treated with the dig-
nity and respect that we all deserve.
Those of us who live within the 100-
mile border enforcement zone have
often had our civil rights impeded be-
cause some basic constitutional prin-
ciples don’t fully apply to us.
Since the creation of DHS in 2003, our
government has spent over $300 billion,
including two supplemental bills
passed this year, on the agencies that
carry out immigration enforcement,
largely within that 100-mile zone. This
enormous taxpayer investment has cre-
ated a situation where the American
taxpayer spends more money on immi-
gration enforcement than on all other
Federal law enforcement agencies com-
bined.
Unfortunately, especially for those of
us who live within that 100-mile en-
forcement zone, this spending has not
included corresponding oversight or ac-
countability measures. This bill seeks
to change that with the creation of an
ombudsman for border and immigra-
tion-related concerns.
The ombudsman, in conjunction with
the inspector general at DHS, will be
charged with establishing an inde-
pendent, neutral, and confidential
process to assist individuals, including
personnel, with complaints against Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement
and U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion.
The ombudsman is also responsible
for reviewing CBP and ICE compliance
with all departmental policies and
standards related to the treatment of
migrants in custody.
This function was a priority for me
after learning about child deaths in
Federal custody; after having wit-
nessed severe overcrowding in Border
Patrol facilities; after hearing in my
community, in El Paso, Texas, con-
cerns from agents over and over again
about leadership not listening to them
and about policies they were forced to
enforce; and after interviewing ICE de-
tainees in my hometown who were sub-
jected to force-feeding, an inhumane
practice that is tantamount to torture.
I have heard countless times from my
constituents and other border residents
that they need to have a voice in
crafting border policies because we are
the ones most impacted. H.R. 2203 will
allow them this opportunity through
the establishment of both a border
community liaison and a border over-
sight panel. Both seek to foster com-
munication and cooperation between
DHS and the community by giving bor-
der residents an opportunity to provide
feedback and recommendations regard-
ing border policies.
This panel will also help improve
conditions for agents and officers. For
example, one responsibility of the bor-
der oversight panel is to evaluate poli-
cies to enhance their safety.
The bill also requires the ombudsman
to conduct annual evaluations of all
training provided and will examine
whether key areas are covered, includ-
ing community policing, which builds
trust; enforcement near sensitive loca-
tions; interacting with vulnerable pop-
ulations; and professional and ethical
conduct, such as lawful use of force,
LGBTQ sensitivity, and sexual harass-
ment.
El Paso has been at the epicenter of
much of the humanitarian chaos our
Nation has seen, like being the testing
ground for the cruel family separation
policy that continues to this day. To
help speed up reunifications of these
families, H.R. 2203 requires the om-
budsman, in conjunction with the CBP
Commissioner, ICE Director, and the
Office of Refugee Resettlement, to de-
velop recommendations for the estab-
lishment of an electronic tracking
number system on a single, interoper-
able interface.
Finally, the ombudsman is respon-
sible for developing a plan for outlining
the use of body-worn cameras by Bor-
der Patrol agents and ICE officers
when engaged in border security and
immigration enforcement activities,
something local police forces have em-
braced.
The plan must be crafted in conjunc-
tion with the CBP Commissioner, the
ICE Director, and relevant labor orga-
nizations that represent these officers
and agents. It must also consider exist-
ing State and local body-worn camera
policies.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR) an additional 1
minute.
b 1600
Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Speaker, it must
also consider existing State and local
body-worn camera policies and prin-
ciples developed by major civil and
human rights organizations, so that
DHS can build upon best practices for
each community.
This plan further ensures that safety
needs are met, and trust is built.
All of these features will be invalu-
able tools to make sure that we address
our Nation’s immigration challenges in
a common sense and humane way.
Today, we have the opportunity to
come together and begin to make a
powerful and well-funded Federal agen-
cy more accountable to the Congress
and to the people that they serve. The
ombudsman’s role will fill much needed
gaps in transparency, oversight, train-
ing, and trust.
Mr. Speaker, I am very proud of this
legislation. It comes right from the
communities that are impacted the
most. I urge my colleagues to support
it.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I find it amazing that the majority,
the Democrat majority, would like to
see us prioritize establishing electronic
medical records for illegal immigrants
when we still haven’t been able to pro-
vide that for veterans in our country or
our military, and we have been work-
ing on it for years.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE), a member of the Committee on
Homeland Security.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in opposition to
H.R. 2203, yet another one of the major-
ity’s messaging bills that would do
nothing to address the crisis on our
southern border.
At home in Pennsylvania’s 13th Con-
gressional District, nearly 2,000 miles
away from the southern border, this
crisis is taking a tangible toll on our
communities. As illicit drugs continue
to pour across the southern border and
infiltrate into my district, addiction
and death are occurring.
If we continue to kick the solutions
down the road, we are choosing simply
not to act.
Today, we could be voting to stop the
human trafficking, to stop the drug
trafficking, to stop the cartels and the
violent criminals who permeate into
our country. H.R. 2203 does not address
the real problems.
Instead of passing this do-nothing
bill, I ask that we return to the Home-
land Security Committee and work on
a bipartisan basis to secure our border,
to end the asylum loopholes, and to
protect this great country.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Ms. GARCIA).
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2203, a
bill introduced by my dear friend from
Texas, Congresswoman VERONICA
ESCOBAR.
There is a humanitarian crisis at the
southern border and within the Amer-
ican immigration system. The Home-
land Security Improvement Act is a
critical bill, not a do-nothing bill. It is
a critical bill that addresses our Na-
tion’s immigration challenges at the
border in a responsible and humane
manner by ensuring accountability and
oversight through the creation of an
ombudsman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.045 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7932 September 25, 2019
Our American values, moral con-
science, and Constitution require that
we treat all individuals on American
soil humanely and respectfully. This
bill helps ensure that that happens.
Congress must continue working to
finally end the humanitarian crisis at
the southern border. This is a step in
the right direction.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in support of H.R. 2203.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. RUTHERFORD).
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague from Alabama for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, we have a crisis at the
border. Finally, our colleagues across
the aisle have recognized that this is
not a manufactured crisis.
Just this month, over 800,000 illegal
aliens have now crossed our southern
border in 2019. That is two times more
than crossed in all of 2018.
These numbers are at historic highs
in large part due to our broken immi-
gration system that incentivizes illegal
crossings, and H.R. 2203 does nothing to
fix it.
This bill does nothing to stop chil-
dren from being used as pawns by traf-
fickers to cross our border. This bill
does nothing to support law enforce-
ment officers, which as a lifelong en-
forcement officer myself, I take par-
ticular issue with. This bill does noth-
ing to hire more immigration judges,
which are desperately needed in order
to decrease the growing and historic
backlog of cases that we have now
seen. This bill does nothing to alleviate
the pressure on our detention facilities.
In fact, this bill will make these
problems worse; worse, Mr. Speaker.
Requiring the release of all migrants
after 72 hours in detention will
incentivize even more people to cross
our southern border, because they are
guaranteed to be released into the inte-
rior of our country.
This bill negates the positive steps
that President Trump has taken to se-
cure our southern border.
A bipartisan majority in the House
and Senate did not support these ideas
before when we passed the border sup-
plemental in June, and they will not
support them now.
Instead of giving law enforcement
the resources they need to keep our
communities safe, House Democrats
are tiptoeing around real solutions,
and are more interested in obstructing
our President than solving problems
for the American public.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 2203.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman and certainly the
ranking member for his position on
this bill, but I rise with great enthu-
siasm to support H.R. 2203 by the dis-
tinguished gentlewoman from Texas,
and as well to indicate to her that I
had wished that the joy of doing this
would be that we are passing produc-
tive legislation, but the sadness is that
it is based upon the history and the
evidence of what is going on at the
southern border where she lives.
So I hope those who are waiting for
this bill will realize that it is going to
pass this House and that we are going
to move this bill to the United States
Senate and ask the Senate whether, in
fact, they believe in the humanity of
all people.
Let me share with you what this bill
is about from my perspective. First of
all, I take no backseat to dealing with
the border patrol agents, the CBP, and
any others.
In 2004, Senator Kerry and I, he in
the Senate and I in the House, helped
contribute to the modernizing of the
border patrol, because when I went
down to the border, they didn’t have
the tools that they needed. We gave
them the night goggles, we gave them
the kinds of equipment that they need-
ed, those heavy terrain vehicles. We
gave them the fast boats that they
needed.
We gave them their equipment, rec-
ognizing that we had been organized
just a few years as the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, and we wanted our
border to be safe and secure, but at the
same time, we wanted to make sure
that we had comprehensive immigra-
tion reform. That was imploded when
we could not pass a major bill that
came to this House.
So I am curious why anyone would
not want to have a bill that says it is
the Homeland Security Improvement
Act.
So I stand here in the name of Roger,
9 months old, who was separated from
his parents by the Trump administra-
tion’s heinous policies of family sepa-
ration.
This bill deals with eliminating fam-
ily separation.
I stand here for the mother who had
had a baby, and 45 days after having
that baby, she had not been to a hos-
pital, but she was in a detention cen-
ter.
I think it is fair that there be a pol-
icy for border patrol agents to wear
those cameras, like any other law en-
forcement, to protect them and others;
the limitation on the separation of
families; the prohibition of exceeding
72 hours in short-term detention; the
ombudsman, which is so important so
that we have a fair investment.
To my friend that was on the floor
dealing with human trafficking: Any
day of the week, I will join him in a
bill that deals with human trafficking.
I held the first hearing by Homeland
Security on human trafficking in the
field almost 8 years ago, because Hous-
ton is a known epicenter for human
trafficking.
But right now, we are dealing with
the improvement of this Department,
and I believe this commission is going
to be important and crucial for mi-
grant families and children that have
been separated and abused by the
Trump administration.
Do we want to see human beings in
cages? Or do we want to have a fair
system that protects the United States
and the border from the intrusion of
those who would do us harm?
A regular immigration system would
allow these desperate families to come
and be processed.
I would have wanted the Mexican
program to be out. I would have want-
ed to have my amendment that deals
with making sure that the FOIA
amendment covers every detention
center, private and nonprivate, that
would have ensured that they had to
report about what was going on inside
these detention centers.
Those amendments were not allowed
at this time, but we will work with the
gentlewoman and work with Homeland
Security to make sure that we do not
have Members of Congress blocked
from coming to these private detention
centers that women and children are
in.
But this is a good start. This gives
tools to those who are in need of those
particular tools.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute
to the gentlewoman.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for the additional
time.
Mr. Speaker, I wanted to focus on
this: We know in the past year, under
this administration, seven-plus chil-
dren have died. How many adults have
also passed? It is as important to re-
port the deaths of individuals in our
own prison systems as it is to report
migrant deaths. They are human
beings.
It is important to be able to use and
to understand the use of force. To
every law enforcement officer, I say to
their families, I want them to go home
to their families. But to every human
being who comes desperate for the hope
and the blessings of America who has
not come to do us harm, I want to be
able to have the oversight that is in
this bill, the accountability and trans-
parency in that border area.
We all know that El Paso has been
touted as the safest city in the Nation.
It was not an immigrant that killed 22
people. It was not an immigrant whose
violence and victimization and utiliza-
tion of an automatic weapon caused
the injuries to the people whom I had
to visit in the hospitals of El Paso. It
was not an immigrant.
Mr. Speaker, this is a worthy bill
that will, in fact, provide the right di-
rection for the Homeland Security De-
partment. I rise to support H.R. 2203.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of
H.R. 2203, the Homeland Security Improve-
ment Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.047 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7933
September 25, 2019
I thank my colleague, Congresswoman
ESCOBAR for her leadership in drafting this im-
portant piece of legislation.
As a member of the House Committees on
the Judiciary and Homeland Security, I am
well aware of the many problems associated
with this Administration’s immigration policy.
Independent Ombudsman:
Establishes an independent Ombudsman for
Border and Immigration Related Concerns
within DHS.
The functions of the Ombudsman include
establishing an independent, neutral, and con-
fidential process to assist individuals with com-
plaints against Immigration and Customs En-
forcement (ICE) and U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP).
Provides for annual reporting on the com-
plaints filed, including the number and types of
complaints received to identify trends and
solve systemic problems.
Reviews compliance by CBP and ICE with
all departmental policies and standards related
to treatment of migrants in custody, including
with respect to force-feeding.
Makes the complaint resolution process
easy to follow by establishing a publicly avail-
able website.
Border Communities Liaison:
Directs the Ombudsman, in conjunction with
the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at
DHS, to appoint a Border Community Liaison
in each Border Patrol sector along the north-
ern and southern border to:
foster cooperation between ICE, CBP, and
border communities;
consult with border communities on CBP
and ICE policies, directives, and programs;
receive feedback from border communities
about CBP and ICE activities in the region;
and
report annually to the Ombudsman.
Border Oversight Panel:
Directs the Ombudsman to establish a Bor-
der Oversight Panel to evaluate and make
recommendations regarding the border en-
forcement policies, strategies, and programs
that directly affect border communities.
Specifically directs the Panel to pay special
attention to the way DHS policies impact due
process, property rights, legal obligations, and
migrant and officer safety.
Training Evaluations:
Requires the Ombudsman to conduct an-
nual evaluations of all training given to the
agents and officers at CBP and ICE.
The Ombudsman must examine whether
there is training in specific key areas including
community policing, enforcement near sen-
sitive locations, interacting with vulnerable
populations, and professional and ethical con-
duct (like lawful use of force, LGBTQ sensi-
tivity, and sexual harassment).
Mandates that the Ombudsman provide rec-
ommendations to the Secretary on additional
training needs. The Secretary must respond to
these recommendations publicly within 180
days with an action plan to implement such
recommendations and a justification for why
any of such recommendations have been re-
jected.
Body-Worn Cameras:
Directs the Ombudsman, in coordination
with CBP Commissioner, ICE Director, and
labor organizations representing agents and
officers, to submit to Congress a plan for re-
quiring the use of body-worn cameras by U.S.
Border Patrol agents and ICE officers when
engaged in border security and immigration
enforcement activities.
Provides that the plan must consider exist-
ing state and local body-worn camera policies
and principles developed by major civil and
human rights organizations.
I offered an amendment to H.R. 2203, that
was not included in this final bill.
This Jackson Lee Amendment, listed as No.
6 on the Rules Committee Roster, makes a
good bill better by creating an affirmative obli-
gation on the part of Customs and Border Pro-
tection to provide access to records of entities
that contract with the agency to provide serv-
ices related to detention or removal of per-
sons, including children.
The Jackson Lee Amendment states simply:
‘‘In the case of a contractor including a
State licensed, vetted, and qualified con-
tractor, and a nonprofit entity, which has a
contract with U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection for the provision of direct or support
services associated with providing care for in-
dividuals, including unaccompanied alien chil-
dren, apprehended at the southern border of
the United States, any record of the contractor
held by U.S. Customs and Border Protection
shall be considered an agency record for pur-
poses of section 552 on title 5, United States
Code.’’
Since 1967, the Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA) has provided the public the right to re-
quest access to records from any federal
agency.
It is often described as the law that keeps
citizens in the know about their government.
Federal agencies are required to disclose
any information requested under the FOIA un-
less it falls under one of nine exemptions
which protect interests such as personal pri-
vacy, national security, and law enforcement.
The FOIA also requires agencies to
proactively post online certain categories of in-
formation, including frequently requested
records.
As Congress, the President, and the Su-
preme Court have all recognized, the FOIA is
a vital part of our democracy.
I will continue to work with my colleagues
on gaining greater transparency and oversight
of CBP.
I ask my colleagues to join me in support of
this bill.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. GUEST), a mem-
ber of the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, as a mem-
ber of the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and a former prosecutor, I rise
today to express my concerns regard-
ing H.R. 2203.
While the bill is referred to as the
Homeland Security Improvement Act,
the legislation does not make improve-
ments to our homeland security, and,
in fact, would have no positive impact
on resolving the crisis at our southwest
border or preventing any future home-
land security crisis.
It is the responsibility of Congress to
fix gaps in our immigration system
that benefit criminals such as human
traffickers and drug smugglers.
Instead of addressing these needs,
this bill would create even more loop-
holes.
H.R. 2203 would establish a new and
unnecessary position at the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security that would
serve as an additional barrier for law
enforcement officers charged with pro-
tecting our communities. This new po-
sition would overlap with existing posi-
tions at DHS, and a panel of appointees
or bureaucrats with no prior experience
in law enforcement would oversee the
border and immigration enforcement
process.
b 1615
Democrats must recognize the ef-
forts, dedication, and sacrifices made
each day by members of our law en-
forcement community to uphold the
rule of law. Rather than undermining
their roles and duties, we should be fo-
cusing on how we can assist these
brave men and women who work to
maintain our Nation’s security.
I recently introduced H.R. 3990, the
Operation Stonegarden Authorization
Act. This bill would establish a grant
program for States bordering Mexico or
Canada or those with a maritime bor-
der. These grants would provide much-
needed resources to help Customs and
Border Protection and local law en-
forcement officers efficiently carry out
their mission on behalf of the Amer-
ican people.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to join me in promoting re-
spect for our law enforcement commu-
nity and providing a sense of gratitude
for the work they do to keep us, our
families, and our communities safe.
As a member of the Committee on
Homeland Security, I voted against
this bill when it was considered in com-
mittee. Now, I strongly encourage my
colleagues to join me in voting against
this partisan measure and to, instead,
work across the aisle to find real solu-
tions, bipartisan solutions, to make
America a safer place to live, to wor-
ship, and to raise a family.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
first, I thank Chairman THOMPSON for
yielding and for his tremendous leader-
ship not only on issues of security but
on so many issues that affect our coun-
try.
Also, I thank Congresswoman
VERONICA ESCOBAR, who I call my Con-
gresswoman because she represents the
wonderful people of my hometown of El
Paso, Texas.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H.R. 2203, the Homeland Security Im-
provement Act.
I have visited McAllen and Browns-
ville, Texas, and Homestead. I have
witnessed children in cages, sleeping on
concrete floors. I had a chance to talk
to mothers and fathers who had no idea
where their children were.
I served on the conference committee
on homeland security as we moved to
open the government earlier this year.
I have to tell you, there were so many
suggestions that were made that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.025 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7934 September 25, 2019
weren’t accepted. There were good, ra-
tional, concrete suggestions.
This is a critical bill that addresses
some of those concerns.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute
to the gentlewoman.
Ms. LEE of California. It creates an
independent ombudsman, which will es-
tablish a confidential process to assist
individuals with complaints against
ICE and CBP.
Once more, this bill is important for
our children and would develop rec-
ommendations for the establishment of
an electronic tracking system to track
the location of children who have been
separated from a parent, legal guard-
ian, or other relative.
We will not stand by while the
Trump administration separates chil-
dren from their families, so this bill
takes an important step in the right di-
rection.
By passing this bill today, we are
putting critical protocols and protec-
tions in place for migrants, making
sure that their well-being and health is
uplifted at every step.
We cannot allow migrants to be
abused by CBP and ICE any longer. It
is past time to protect migrants who
are seeking a chance to start a new life
in America. It is past time we recog-
nize people fleeing violence are human
beings who deserve a chance to address
and be part of a just immigration sys-
tem.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this vital bill.
I thank Chairman THOMPSON and
Congresswoman ESCOBAR for finally
getting this bill to the floor.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I have no further speakers, and I am
prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill demonstrates
just how disingenuous Democrats are
about securing our borders and fixing
our broken immigration system. Their
Caucus is in such disarray on this issue
that it took them 10 weeks and a
hatchet just to find a compromise
among themselves. Now, they are going
to send another partisan messaging bill
to the Senate, where it will promptly
die.
Congratulations on the press release.
Mr. Speaker, we watched an unprece-
dented humanitarian crisis unfold on
our Southwest border this year. It used
to be that when this country faced a
crisis, Democrats and Republicans
came together to solve it and ensure it
didn’t happen again. Unfortunately,
that is no longer the practice under
Democratic control.
When Democrats are ready to legis-
late with real solutions to problems
this country faces, Republicans stand
ready to work with them. In the mean-
time, I urge all Members to oppose this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump administra-
tion’s cruel and inhumane approach to
border and immigration enforcement
has subjected DHS’ frontline personnel
and border communities to chaotic
conditions. It has also hurt families
and children.
From the Remain in Mexico policy
that puts children and families in
harm’s way indefinitely to family sepa-
ration to metering, the Trump admin-
istration has haphazardly reshaped
how people who seek safety in the U.S.
are treated. It is essential that there be
greater transparency and account-
ability regarding what DHS is doing
along the border. More remains to be
done, but H.R. 2203 includes several
first steps.
I urge my colleagues to support this
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 577,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 2203 is postponed.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has agreed to a joint resolu-
tion of the following title in which the
concurrence of the House is requested:
S.J. Res. 54. Joint resolution relating to a
national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM CHAIR OF
COMMITTEE ON TRANSPOR-
TATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the chair of the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infra-
structure; which was read and, without
objection, referred to the Committee
on Appropriations:
COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE, HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 19, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: On September 19,
2019, pursuant to section 3307 of Title 40,
United States Code, the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure met in
open session to consider six resolutions in-
cluded in the General Services Administra-
tion’s Capital Investment and Leasing Pro-
grams.
I have enclosed copies of the resolutions
adopted.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman.
Enclosures.
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
LEASE—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, KANSAS
CITY, MO
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 3307,
appropriations are authorized for a lease of
up to 204,607 rentable square feet of space, in-
cluding 104 official parking spaces, for the
Department of Transportation and the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs currently lo-
cated at 901 Locust Street in Kansas City,
MO at a proposed total annual cost of
$4,982,181 for a lease term of up to 5 years, a
prospectus for which is attached to and in-
cluded in this resolution.
Approval of this prospectus constitutes au-
thority to execute an interim lease for all
tenants, if necessary, prior to the execution
of the new lease.
Provided that, the Administrator of General
Services and tenant agency(ies) agree to
apply an overall utilization rate of 311 square
feet or less per person, except that, if the Ad-
ministrator determines that the overall uti-
lization rate cannot be achieved, the Admin-
istrator shall provide an explanatory state-
ment to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in this resolution.
Provided that, except for interim leases as
described above, the Administrator may not
enter into any leases that are below pro-
spectus level for the purposes of meeting any
of the requirements, or portions thereof, in-
cluded in the prospectus that would result in
an overall utilization rate of 311 square feet
or higher per person.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator shall include
in the lease contract(s) a purchase option
that can be exercised at the conclusion of
the firm term of the lease.
Provided further, that the General Services
Administration shall not delegate to any
other agency the authority granted by this
resolution.
Provided further, that the Administrator
shall require that the delineated area of the
procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus, except that,
if the Administrator determines that the de-
lineated area of the procurement should not
be identical to the delineated area included
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall
provide an explanatory statement to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
prior to exercising any lease authority pro-
vided in this resolution.
Provided further, not later than 30 calendar
days after the date on which a request from
the Chairman or Ranking Member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives is
received by the Administrator of General
Services, the Administrator shall provide
such Member a response in writing that pro-
vides any information requested regarding
the project.
Provided further, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services may not enter into this lease if
it does not contain a provision barring any
individual holding a Federally-elected office,
regardless of whether such individual took
office before or after execution of this lease,
to directly participate in, or benefit from or
under this lease or any part thereof and that
such provision provide that if this lease is
found to have been made in violation of the
foregoing prohibition or it is found that this
prohibition has been violated during the
term of the lease, the lease shall be void, ex-
cept that the foregoing limitation shall not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.050 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7935
September 25, 2019
apply if the lease is entered into with a pub-
licly-held corporation or publicly-held entity
for the general benefit of such corporation or
entity.
Provided further, prior to entering into this
lease or approving a novation agreement in-
volving a change of ownership under this
lease, the Administrator of General Services
shall require the offeror or the parties re-
questing the novation, as applicable, to iden-
tify and disclose whether the owner of the
leased space, including an entity involved in
the financing thereof, is a foreign person or
a foreign-owned entity; provided further, in
such an instance, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services shall notify the occupant agen-
cy(ies) in writing, and consult with such oc-
cupant agency(ies) regarding security con-
cerns and necessary mitigation measures (if
any) prior to award of the lease or approval
of the novation agreement.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator of General
Services shall require that the lease procure-
ment consider the availability of public
transportation consistent with agency mis-
sion requirements and that the space to be
leased be renovated for all cost effective im-
provements, including renewable energy up-
grades, water efficiency improvements, and
indoor air quality optimization, that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.057 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7936 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.057 H25SEPT1
Insert
graphic
folio
1257/3
EH250919.001
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
KANSAS CITY, MO
Executive Summary
Prospectus Number: PM0-02-KC20
Congressional District: OS
The General Services Administration (GSA) proposes a lease extension of up to 5 years
for approximately 204,607 rentable square feet (RSF) for five components of the
Department of Transportation (DOT) and for the Department of Veterans Affairs,
Veterans Health Administration (VA-VHA), currently located at 901 Locust Street,
Kansas City, Missouri. DOT and VA-VHA have occupied space in the building since
2009 under a lease that expires on October 14,2019.
Extension of the current lease will enable DOT and VA-VHA to provide continued
housing for personnel and meet their mission requirements while planning for the future
replacement lease. The office and overall uti1ization will be maintained at 162 and 311
usable square feet (USF) per person, respectively.
Description
Occupant:
Current RSF:
Estimated/Proposed Maximum RSF:
Expansion/Reduction RSF:
Current USF/Person:
Estimated/Proposed USF/Person:
Expiration Dates ofCurrent Lease(s):
Proposed Maximum Leasing Authority:
Delineated Area:
Number ofOfficial Parking Spaces:
Scoring:
Current Total Annual Cost:
Estimated Rental Rate1
:
Estimated Total Annual Cosr:
Departments ofTransportation and
Veterans Affairs
204,607 (Current RSF/USF =1.20)
204,607 (Proposed RSF/USF = 1.20)
None
311
311
10/14/2019
5 years
North: I-70/1-35; East: 1-70/Campbell
Street; South: 31st Street; West: Summit
Street/I-35.
104
Operating
$4,238,269 (leases effective 10/15/2009)
$24.35/RSF
$4,982,181
1
This estimate is for fiscal year 2020 and may be escalated by 2 pt.'fcem per year to the effective date of the lease to
account for inflation. The proposed rental rate is fully serviced. including all operating expenses, whether paid by the
lessor or directly by the Government. GSA will conduct the procurement using prevailing market rental rates as a
benchmark for the evaluation of competitive offers and as the basis for negotiating with offerors to ensure that lease
award is made in the best interest ofthe Government.
! New leases may contain an escalation clause to provide for annual changes in real estate taxes and operating costs.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7937
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.057 H25SEPT1
Insert
graphic
folio
1257/4
EH250919.002
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
DEPARTMENTOFTRANSPORTATION AND
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
KANSAS CITY, MO
PBS
Prospectus Number: PM0-02-KC20
Congressional District: 05
Background
In addition to VA-VHA, this location houses the administrative offices of the following
five DOT operating administrations within the Kansas City, Missouri, area:
The Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) mission is to provide the safest,
most efficient aerospace system in the world;
The Federal Railroad Administration's mission is to enable the safe, reliable, and
efficient movement of people and goods for a strong America, now and in the
future;
The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration's mission is to save
lives, prevent injuries, and reduce economic costs due to road traffic crashes,
through education, research, safety standards, and enforcement activity:
The Federal Transit Administration's mission is to provide financial and technical
assistance to local public transit systems, including buses, subways, light rail,
commuter rail, trolleys, and ferries; and
The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration's mission is to
protect people and the environment by advancing the safe transportation ofenergy
and other hazardous materials that are essential to our daily lives.
VA-VHA's mission is to honor America's veterans by providing exceptional healthcare
that improves their health and well-being. VA-VHA is the largest integrated healthcare
system in the United States, providing care to over 9 million veterans enrolled in the VA
healthcare program.
Justification
The current lease at 901 Locust Street expires on October 14, 2019, and the agencies
require continued housing to carry out their missions until the long-term plan can be
executed for a replacement lease. This FAA location houses the Regional Office and the
functions ofoversight ofairport planning, development, and certification, as well as
administration ofregulations for airmen, air carriers, and air agencies. The remaining
DOT components execute mission functions necessary to perform vital operations. The
VA~VHA office is responsible for administrative operations to support the VA Heartland
Network ofmedical centers and healthcare systems.
Continued housing is critical to these agencies meeting their mission requirements, and a
5-year lease extension will provide sufficient time to formulate and execute lease
replacement plans, as well as budget for move and replication costs accordingly.
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7938 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.057 H25SEPT1
Insert
graphic
folio
1257/5
EH250919.003
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
KANSAS CITY, MO
PBS
Prospectus Number: PM0-02-KC20
Congressional District: 05
Resolutions of Approval
Resolutions adopted by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approving this prospectus will
constitute approval to make appropriations to lease space in a facility that will yield the
required rentable area.
Interim Leasing
GSA will execute such interim leasing actions as are necessary to ensure continued
housing of the tenant agency prior to the effective date of the extension. It is in the best
interest ofthe Government to avert the financial risk ofholdover tenancy.
Certification of Need
The proposed project is the best solution to meet a validated Government need.
Submitted at Washington,
3
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7939
September 25, 2019
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
LEASE—DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION, QUEENS, NY
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 3307,
appropriations are authorized for a lease of
up to 140,000 rentable square feet of space, in-
cluding 208 official parking spaces, for the
Department of Homeland Security—Customs
and Border Protection currently located at
Building 77 at the JFK Airport in Queens,
NY at a proposed total annual cost of
$11,060,000 for a lease term of up to 20 years,
a prospectus for which is attached to and in-
cluded in this resolution.
Approval of this prospectus constitutes au-
thority to execute an interim lease for all
tenants, if necessary, prior to the execution
of the new lease.
Provided that, the Administrator of General
Services and tenant agency(ies) agree to
apply an overall utilization rate of 212 square
feet or less per person, except that, if the Ad-
ministrator determines that the overall uti-
lization rate cannot be achieved, the Admin-
istrator shall provide an explanatory state-
ment to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in this resolution.
Provided that, except for interim leases as
described above, the Administrator may not
enter into any leases that are below pro-
spectus level for the purposes of meeting any
of the requirements, or portions thereof, in-
cluded in the prospectus that would result in
an overall utilization rate of 212 square feet
or higher per person.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator shall include
in the lease contract(s) a purchase option
that can be exercised at the conclusion of
the firm term of the lease.
Provided further, that the General Services
Administration shall not delegate to any
other agency the authority granted by this
resolution.
Provided further, that the Administrator
shall require that the delineated area of the
procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus, except that,
if the Administrator determines that the de-
lineated area of the procurement should not
be identical to the delineated area included
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall
provide an explanatory statement to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
prior to exercising any lease authority pro-
vided in this resolution.
Provided further, not later than 30 calendar
days after the date on which a request from
the Chairman or Ranking Member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives is
received by the Administrator of General
Services, the Administrator shall provide
such Member a response in writing that pro-
vides any information requested regarding
the project.
Provided further, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services may not enter into this lease if
it does not contain a provision barring any
individual holding a Federally-elected office,
regardless of whether such individual took
office before or after execution of this lease,
to directly participate in, or benefit from or
under this lease or any part thereof and that
such provision provide that if this lease is
found to have been made in violation of the
foregoing prohibition or it is found that this
prohibition has been violated during the
term of the lease, the lease shall be void, ex-
cept that the foregoing limitation shall not
apply if the lease is entered into with a pub-
licly-held corporation or publicly-held entity
for the general benefit of such corporation or
entity.
Provided further, prior to entering into this
lease or approving a novation agreement in-
volving a change of ownership under this
lease, the Administrator of General Services
shall require the offeror or the parties re-
questing the novation, as applicable, to iden-
tify and disclose whether the owner of the
leased space, including an entity involved in
the financing thereof, is a foreign person or
a foreign-owned entity; provided further, in
such an instance, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services shall notify the occupant agen-
cy(ies) in writing, and consult with such oc-
cupant agency(ies) regarding security con-
cerns and necessary mitigation measures (if
any) prior to award of the lease or approval
of the novation agreement.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator of General
Services shall require that the lease procure-
ment consider the availability of public
transportation consistent with agency mis-
sion requirements and that the space to be
leased be renovated for all cost effective im-
provements, including renewable energy up-
grades, water efficiency improvements, and
indoor air quality optimization, that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7940 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/8
here
EH250919.004
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
· CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
QUEENS, NY
Prospectus Number: PNY-03-QU19
Congressional District: 05
Executive Summary
The General Services Administration (GSA) proposes a lease of approximately 140;000
rentable square feet (RSF) for th~ Department of Homeland Security, Customs and
Border Protection (CBP)~ currently located at Building 77 at the JFK Airport in Queens,
NY.
The lease will provide continued housing for CBP and will improve the office and overall
space utilization from. 142 to 84 and 241 to 212 usable square feet (OSF) per person,
respectively.
Description
Occupant:
Current Rentable Square Feet (RSF)
Estimated Maximum RSF:
Reduction RSF:
Current USF/Person:
Estimated USF/Person:
· Expiration Dates ofCurrentLease(s):
. Proposed Maximum Leasing Authority:
Delineated Area: ·
Number of Official Parking Spaces:
· Scoring:
Current Total Annual Cost:
Estimated Rental Rate1
:
Estimated Total Annual Cosf:
CBP
145,912 (CurrentRSF/USF 1;;:1 1.15)
140,000 {Proposed RSF/USF; 1.15)
5,912
. 241
212
06/30/2021
20 years .
North: fntersection ofLefferts Blvd, and
S. Conduit Rd. heading east to Ro·ckaway
Blvd. then heading east to Brookville
Blvd; West: Lefferts Blvd; East: Heacl of
Bay; South: Jamaica Bay ·
208
Operating
$8,244,028 (leases effective 06/19/.1992)
$79.00 I RSF
$11,060,000
1
This csti111nte is for fiscai year 2021 and may be escalated by 2% percent annunlly to the effective date ofthe lease to
account for inflation. The proposed rental rote is fully serviced including all ~pemting expenses, whether paid by the
lessor or directly by the Governmt.'nt. GSA will conduct the procurcmtent using prevailing market rental rates ns a
benchmark for the evaluation of competitive offers and us the basis for negotiating with offerors to ensure that lease
award is made in the best interest ofthe Government. ·
2
New lenses may contain an escalation clause to provide for nnnunl chnng~ in real estate taxes and operating costs.
1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7941
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/9
here
EH250919.005
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
QUEENS, NY
PBS
Prospectus Number: PNY-03-QU19
Con'gressional District: 05
Background
CBP currently occupies approximately 145,912 RSF of space in Building 77 at JFK
Airport in Queens, NY. CBP at JFK Airport covers· the diverse operational demands of
5 international passenger terminals, 1 International Mail Facility (IMF), 24 ·air cargo
facilities, 80 containerized freight stations, 2 general order warehouses, 14 bonded
warehouses, 3 foreign trade zones, and 5 general aviation facilities. This facility functions
much more like a port ofentry than an office location.
The CBP operation at JFK Airport monitors half the cargo imported into the United
States as well as over 10 million passengers a year. CBP's ability to effectively and
safely manage this extensive operation is facilitated by close physical proximity to the
aiq)ort. Transporting narcotics, currency; and inadmissible aliens and criminals to off-
airport locations for processing .would pose security risks, decrease effectiveness, and
unnecessarily reduce the time dedicated to CBP's enforcement mission. The proposed
delineated area maintains the agency's proximity to the airport.
Justification
This replacement lease will provide CBP with the opportunity to increase space
utilization efficiency to accommodate additional personnel in field operations, internal
affairs, and the international trade office.
The current lease expires on Jun~ 30, 2021, and CBP requires continued housing to
perform its mission.
Summary of Energy CompUance
GSA will incorporate energy efficiency requirements into the Request for Lease
Proposals and other· documents related to the procurement of space based on the
approved prospectus. GSA encourages offerors to .exceed minimum requirements set
forth in the procurement and to achieve an Energy Star perfonnance rating of 75 or
higher,
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7942 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/10
here
EH250919.006
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
QUEENS, NY
PBS
Prospectus Number: PNY-03-QU19
Congressional District: 05
Resolutions of Approval
Resolutions adopted by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approving this prospectus will
constitute approval to make appropriations to lease space in a facility that will.yield the
required rentable area. ·
Interim Leasing
GSA will execute such interim leasing actions as are necessary to ensure continued
housing of the tenant agency prior to the effective date of the new lease. It is in the best
interest ofthe Government to avert the financial risk ofholdover tenancy.
Certification of Need
The proposed project is the best solution to meet a validated Government need.
Submitted at Washington, DC, on April29,.2019.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7943
September 25, 2019
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
LEASE—VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION,
SOUTH HAMPTON ROADS, VA
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 3307,
appropriations are authorized for a lease of
up to 215,000 rentable square feet of space, in-
cluding 1,050 official parking spaces, for the
Veterans Health Administration currently
located at 244 Clearfield Avenue in Virginia
Beach, VA at a proposed total annual cost of
$9,030,000 for a lease term of up to 20 years,
a prospectus for which is attached to and in-
cluded in this resolution.
Approval of this prospectus constitutes au-
thority to execute an interim lease for all
tenants, if necessary, prior to the execution
of the new lease.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator shall include
in the lease contract(s) a purchase option
that can be exercised at the conclusion of
the firm term of the lease.
Provided further, that the General Services
Administration shall not delegate to any
other agency the authority granted by this
resolution.
Provided further, that the Administrator
shall require that the delineated area of the
procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus, except that,
if the Administrator determines that the de-
lineated area of the procurement should not
be identical to the delineated area included
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall
provide an explanatory statement to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
prior to exercising any lease authority pro-
vided in this resolution.
Provided further, not later than 30 calendar
days after the date on which a request from
the Chairman or Ranking Member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives is
received by the Administrator of General
Services, the Administrator shall provide
such Member a response in writing that pro-
vides any information requested regarding
the project.
Provided further, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services may not enter into this lease if
it does not contain a provision barring any
individual holding a Federally-elected office,
regardless of whether such individual took
office before or after execution of this lease,
to directly participate in, or benefit from or
under this lease or any part thereof and that
such provision provide that if this lease is
found to have been made in violation of the
foregoing prohibition or it is found that this
prohibition has been violated during the
term of the lease, the lease shall be void, ex-
cept that the foregoing limitation shall not
apply if the lease is entered into with a pub-
licly-held corporation or publicly-held entity
for the general benefit of such corporation or
entity.
Provided further, prior to entering into this
lease or approving a novation agreement in-
volving a change of ownership under this
lease, the Administrator of General Services
shall require the offeror or the parties re-
questing the novation, as applicable, to iden-
tify and disclose whether the owner of the
leased space, including an entity involved in
the financing thereof, is a foreign person or
a foreign-owned entity; provided further, in
such an instance, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services shall notify the occupant agen-
cy(ies) in writing, and consult with such oc-
cupant agency(ies) regarding security con-
cerns and necessary mitigation measures (if
any) prior to award of the lease or approval
of the novation agreement.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator of General
Services shall require that the lease procure-
ment consider the availability of public
transportation consistent with agency mis-
sion requirements and that the space to be
leased be renovated for all cost effective im-
provements, including renewable energy up-
grades, water efficiency improvements, and
indoor air quality optimization, that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7944 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/13
here
EH250919.007
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
SOUTH HAMPTON ROADS, VA
Prospectus Number: PVA-01-HA20
Congressional District: 2, 3, 4
Executive Summary
The General Services Administration (GSA) proposes an outpatient clinic lease of
approximately 215,000 rentable square feet (RSF) for the Department of Veterans
Affairs, Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The lease will house a new Health Care
Center and will serve as a complement to the existing Community Based Health Care
Center (CBOC) currently located at 244 Clearfield Avenue in Virginia Beach, VA.
This project would allow VHA to expand its current primary care, mental health, and eye
clinic services, as well as provide much needed new specialty care and advanced imaging
services to veterans in a right-sized, state-of-the-art, and energy-efficient healthcare
facility.
Description
Occupant:
Current RSF:
Estimated/Proposed Maximum RSF:
Expansion/Reduction RSF:
Expiration Dates ofCurrent Lease(s):
Proposed Maximum Leasing Authority:
Delineated Area:
Veterans Health Administration
0
215,000 (Proposed RSF/Usable SF"" l.l5)
215,000 (Expansion)
N/A
20 years
North: start at the intersection of
Tidewater Drive (Route 168) and E
Virginia Beach Blvd. (Route 58)
to Virginia Beach Blvd.; East: S.
Independence Blvd. (Route 225) to
Holland Road, south onto Dam Neck
Road, continue onto Elbow Road,
continue on Indian River Road; South: at
the intersection ofIndian River Road and
Elbow Road, head south on Elbow Road,
west on Butts Station Road, west on
Clearfield Ave., west on Kempsville Road
(Route 190); West: north on Battlefield
Blvd. N (Business 168), onto Oak Grove
Connector (Chesapeake Expressway-
Route 168), onto Hampton Roads Beltway
(Route 64), onto Battlefield Blvd. N
(Business 168), onto Campostella Road,
onto E Brambleton Ave., onto Tidewater
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7945
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/14
here
EH250919.008
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
SOUTH HAMPTON ROADS, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number: PVA-01-HA20
Number ofOfficial Parking Spaces:
Scoring:
Current Total Annual Cost:
Estimated Rental Rate1
:
Estimated Total Annual Cosr:
Background
Congressional District: 2, 3, 4
Drive (Route 168).
1,050
Operating
N/A
$42.00/RSF
$9,030,000
VHA's mission is to honor America's veterans by providing exceptional healthcare that
improves their health and well-being. To make access to healthcare easier, VHA utilizes
CBOCs across the country. These clinics provide the most common outpatient services,
including health and wellness visits. VHA continues to expand the network of CBOCs to
include more rural locations, bringing access to care closer to veterans' homes.
The CBOC in the South Hampton Roads area is an approximately 13,000 RSF facility
located in Virginia Beach and is inadequately sized for the anticipated growth of the
veteran population and service needs. The proposed lease will allow VHA to significantly
expand its healthcare access in the area, providing much needed medical services to the
fast growing veteran population.
Justification
The proposed lease would provide modem, efficient space for comprehensive outpatient
services and address space and utilization gaps. The new lease will allow VHA to adapt
to a growing veteran population and increased workload in the South Hampton Roads
area.
This project is essential to ensure that veterans are able to access a full suite of services in
a timely manner. The expansion of mental health services-including mental health
screenings-by hiring additional mental health staffto provide behavioral therapy, family
counseling, and substance abuse therapy on site would support the Department of
Veterans Affairs' goal of eliminating veteran homelessness. The lease would provide
1
This estimate is for fiscal year 2020 and may be escalated by 2 percent annually to the effective date of the lease to
account for inflation. The proposed rental rate is fully serviced including all operating expenses, whether paid by the
lessor or directly by the Government. GSA will conduct the procurement using prevailing market rental rates as a
benchmark for the evaluation of competitive offers and as the basis for negotiating with offerors to ensure that lease
award is made in the best interest ofthe Government.
: New leases may contain an escalation clause to provide for annual changes in real estate taxes and operating costs.
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7946 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/15
here
EH250919.009
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
SOUTH HAMPTON ROADS, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number: PVA-0l-HA20
Congressional District: 2, 3, 4
increased access to care for veterans living in the South Hampton Roads area who are
currently seen in the undersized Virginia Beach CBOC or who commute in excess of
1 hour to another facility in Hampton, VA.
Summary of Energy Compliance
GSA will incorporate energy efficiency requirements into the Request for Lease
Proposals and other documents related to the procurement of space based on the
approved prospectus. GSA encourages offerors to exceed minimum requirements set
forth in the procurement and to achieve an Energy Star performance rating of 75 or
higher.
Resolutions of Approval
Resolutions adopted by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approving this prospectus will
constitute approval to make appropriations to lease space in a facility that will yield the
required rentable area.
Interim Leasing
The Government will execute such interim leasing actions as are necessary to ensure
continued housing ofthe tenant agency prior to the effective date ofthe new lease. It is in
the best interest of the Government to avert the financial risk ofholdover tenancy.
3
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7947
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.058 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/16
here
EH250919.010
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
SOUTH HAMPTON ROADS, VA
Prospectus Number: PVA-Ol-HA20
Congressional District: 2, 3, 4
Certification of Need
The proposed project is the best solution to meet a validated Government need.
Submitted at Washington, DC, on _.;:.J.=ul..,.):_,3'""1""'.2""'0~1...:;9____________
Recommended: ~---:!-li=~-
7
-::-~;~-'V:.......~...:.~~~~:-:-:-:----=::::::o.--::----------
-C ~dp bl" B 'ld' S .
ommtsstoner, u tc ut mgs ervtce
4
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7948 September 25, 2019
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
LEASE—U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS, FREDERICKSBURG, VA
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 3307,
appropriations are authorized for a lease of
up to 364,831 net usable square feet of space,
and 2,600 official parking spaces, for the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs for a Commu-
nity Based Outpatient Clinic in Fredericks-
burg, VA to replace and consolidate two ex-
isting leases in Fredericksburg at a proposed
unserviced annual cost of $14,844,973 for a
lease term of up to 20 years, a prospectus for
which is attached to and included in this res-
olution.
Approval of this prospectus constitutes au-
thority to execute an interim lease for all
tenants, if necessary, prior to the execution
of the new lease.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator shall include
in the lease contract(s) a purchase option
that can be exercised at the conclusion of
the firm term of the lease.
Provided further, that the Administrator
shall require that the delineated area of the
procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus, except that,
if the Administrator determines that the de-
lineated area of the procurement should not
be identical to the delineated area included
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall
provide an explanatory statement to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
prior to exercising any lease authority pro-
vided in this resolution.
Provided further, not later than 30 calendar
days after the date on which a request from
the Chairman or Ranking Member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives is
received by the Administrator of General
Services, the Administrator shall provide
such Member a response in writing that pro-
vides any information requested regarding
the project.
Provided further, the lease shall contain a
provision barring any individual holding a
Federally-elected office, regardless of wheth-
er such individual took office before or after
execution of this lease, to directly partici-
pate in, or benefit from or under this lease or
any part thereof and that such provision pro-
vide that if this lease is found to have been
made in violation of the foregoing prohibi-
tion or it is found that this prohibition has
been violated during the term of the lease,
the lease shall be void, except that the fore-
going limitation shall not apply if the lease
is entered into with a publicly-held corpora-
tion or publicly-held entity for the general
benefit of such corporation or entity.
Provided further, prior to entering into this
lease or approving a novation agreement in-
volving a change of ownership under this
lease, the Administrator of General Services
shall require the offeror or the parties re-
questing the novation, as applicable, to iden-
tify and disclose whether the owner of the
leased space, including an entity involved in
the financing thereof, is a foreign person or
a foreign-owned entity; provided further, in
such an instance, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services shall notify the occupant agen-
cy(ies) in writing, and consult with such oc-
cupant agency(ies) regarding security con-
cerns and necessary mitigation measures (if
any) prior to award of the lease or approval
of the novation agreement.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator of General
Services shall require that the lease procure-
ment consider the availability of public
transportation consistent with agency mis-
sion requirements and that the space to be
leased be renovated for all cost effective im-
provements, including renewable energy up-
grades, water efficiency improvements, and
indoor air quality optimization, that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7949
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/19
here
EH250919.011
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
FREDERICKSBURG, VA
Prospectus Number: PVA-Ol-VA19
Congressional District(s): 1, 7
Executive Summary
The General Services Administration (GSA) proposes a lease of approximately 364,831
net usable square feet (NUSF) for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
outpatient clinic currently located in two leases totaling 21 ,551 NUSF in Fredericksburg,
VA.
The lease will be delegated to VA, provide continued services for the Fredericksburg
veteran community, and provide the necessary expansion services to meet current and
projected service delivery gaps for healthcare in the local market.
Description
Occupant:
Current NUSF
Estimated Maximum NUSF:
Expansion/Reduction NUSF:
Estimated Maximum Rentable Square Feet:
Expiration Dates ofCurrent Lease(s):
Proposed Maximum Leasing Authority:
Delineated Area:
Veterans Affairs
21,551
364,831
343,280 (expansion)
492,522
9,975 NUSF- I0/3ll2021
11,576 NUSF -112112026
20 years
North: Courthouse Rd. from Shelton
Shop Rd. (SR 648) east to Andrew
Chapel Rd. (SR 629)
South: Smith Station RdJSpotsylvania
Pkwy. (SR 628) from SR 208 to
Hospital Blvd. to Mills Dr./US 17 to
Jim Morris Rd. (SR 609)
East: Jim Morris Rd. (SR 609) from US
17 N to Tidewater Trail/US-17 BUS N
to VA-3E1Biue and Gray Pkwy. to
Kings Hwy. to Cool Springs Rd. to
Deacon Rd. to Brooke Rd. to Andrew
Chapel Rd. to Courthouse Rd. (SR 630)
West: Smith Station Rd. (SR 628) from
SR 208 to Gordon Road to Trench Hill
Lane to River Road to Fall Hill Ave.
(SR 639) to I-95N to Sandford Dr. to
Celebrate VA Pkwy. to Warrenton Rd.
(SR 17) to Poplar Rd. to Kellogg Mill
Rd. to Mountain View Rd. to Shelton
1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7950 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/20
here
EH250919.012
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
FREDERICKSBURG, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number: PVA-Ol-VA19
Number ofOfficial Parking Spaces:
Scoring:
Current Total Annual Cost:
Current Total Unserviced Annual Cost:
Estimated Unserviced Rental Rate1
:
Estimated Total Unserviced Annual Cost2
:
Justification
Congressional District(s): 1, 7
Shop Rd. to Courthouse Rd.
2,600
Operating Lease
$629,142
$485,492
$40.69 per NUSF
$14,844,973
A new 364,831 NUSF lease in Fredericksburg will replace and consolidate the two
existing Community Based Outpatient Clinic leases. The current space in these leased
facilities is insufficient to meet the current and projected needs of the veteran community.
Space limitations and an increase in workload limit veterans' access to services in a
timely manner. Additionally, the existing locations have safety and security deficiencies.
The new facility will enhance VA outpatient services by closing space and utilization
gaps identified in VA's Strategic Capital Investment Planning process and will provide a
single location in the Fredericksburg area to serve the outpatient care needs of veterans
and their families. The new lease will allow VA to provide new specialty care services
and enhance and expand the existing primary care, mental health, and specialty care
services it currently provides to veterans in a rightsized, state-of-the-art, healthcare
facility. Further, the intent of this lease is to facilitate collaboration and sharing of
services with the Department of Defense (DoD).
The proposed lease will provide veterans in the Fredericksburg area better access to high-
quality, reliable healthcare. A new lease also will provide future flexibility. Based on
changes in veteran demographics, workload patterns, and emergent healthcare delivery
practices, a lease will allow VA to resize, replace, or exit the proposed clinic lease as
necessary. With this new lease, sufficient space will be available to provide the necessary
primary care, mental health, and specialty care capacity to help ensure veterans have
timely access to high-quality care.
As part of the proposed comprehensive outpatient care offering, the facility will include a
fully staffed Compensation and Pension department. This facility also will have a strong
focus on improving mental health services, reducing veteran homelessness, providing
1
This estimate is for fiscal year 2019 and may be escalated by 2.0 percent annually to the effective date ofthe lease to
account for inflation. The proposed rental rate is unserviced (taxes, insurance, management and maintenance and repair
reserves arc included); however, the lease contract rna)'" include operating expenses paid by the lessor.
2
New leases may contain an escalation clause to provide for mmual changes in real estate taxes.
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7951
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/21
here
EH250919.013
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS- LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
FREDERICKSBURG, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number: PVA-OI-VA19
Congressional District(s): 1, 7
women's health services, and widely using telehealth services. The newly expanded
clinic in Fredericksburg will also provide training opportunities for Virginia
Commonwealth University medical students/residents and other training programs. In
addition, the Outpatient Clinic in Fredericksburg will include 16,733 NUSF of space for
DoD. The intent is for DoD to have access to VA ancillary and diagnostic services, as
well as some specialty care. Due to the rapid growth in workload and the lack of
available private-sector providers to accommodate any of the excess demand in the
Fredericksburg area, the new lease is necessary to provide high-quality outpatient
services to veterans in a timely manner.
Summan of Energv Compliance
Energy efficiency requirements will be incorporated into the Request for Lease Proposals
and other documents related to the procurement of space based on the approved
prospectus. Offerors are encouraged to exceed minimum requirements set forth in the
procurement and to achieve an Energy Star performance rating of75 or higher.
Resolutions of Approval
Resolutions adopted by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approving this prospectus will
constitute approval to make appropriations to lease space in a facility that will yield the
required net usable area.
Interim Leasing
The Government will execute such interim leasing actions as are necessary to ensure
continued housing prior to the effective date of the new lease. It is in the best interest of
the Government to avert the financial risk ofholdover tenancy.
3
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7952 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/22
here
EH250919.014
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
FREDERICKSBURG, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number: PVA-01-VA19
Congressional District(s): 1, 7
Certification of Need
The proposed project is the best solution to meet a validated Government need.
Submitted at Washington, DC, on August 9, 2019.
4
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7953
September 25, 2019
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
LEASE—SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION,
FALLS CHURCH, VA
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. § 3307,
appropriations are authorized for a lease of
up to 334,103 rentable square feet of space, in-
cluding 24 official parking spaces, for the So-
cial Security Administration currently lo-
cated at 5107 Leesburg Pike in Falls Church,
VA at a proposed total annual cost of
$9,271,358 for a lease term of up to 5 years, a
prospectus for which is attached to and in-
cluded in this resolution.
Approval of this prospectus constitutes au-
thority to execute an interim lease for all
tenants, if necessary, prior to the execution
of the new lease.
Provided that, the Administrator of General
Services and tenant agency(ies) agree to
apply an overall utilization rate of 261 square
feet or less per person, except that, if the Ad-
ministrator determines that the overall uti-
lization rate cannot be achieved, the Admin-
istrator shall provide an explanatory state-
ment to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in this resolution.
Provided that, except for interim leases as
described above, the Administrator may not
enter into any leases that are below pro-
spectus level for the purposes of meeting any
of the requirements, or portions thereof, in-
cluded in the prospectus that would result in
an overall utilization rate of 261 square feet
or higher per person.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator shall include
in the lease contract(s) a purchase option
that can be exercised at the conclusion of
the firm term of the lease.
Provided further, that the General Services
Administration shall not delegate to any
other agency the authority granted by this
resolution.
Provided further, that the Administrator
shall require that the delineated area of the
procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus, except that,
if the Administrator determines that the de-
lineated area of the procurement should not
be identical to the delineated area included
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall
provide an explanatory statement to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
prior to exercising any lease authority pro-
vided in this resolution.
Provided further, not later than 30 calendar
days after the date on which a request from
the Chairman or Ranking Member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives is
received by the Administrator of General
Services, the Administrator shall provide
such Member a response in writing that pro-
vides any information requested regarding
the project.
Provided further, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services may not enter into this lease if
it does not contain a provision barring any
individual holding a Federally-elected office,
regardless of whether such individual took
office before or after execution of this lease,
to directly participate in, or benefit from or
under this lease or any part thereof and that
such provision provide that if this lease is
found to have been made in violation of the
foregoing prohibition or it is found that this
prohibition has been violated during the
term of the lease, the lease shall be void, ex-
cept that the foregoing limitation shall not
apply if the lease is entered into with a pub-
licly-held corporation or publicly-held entity
for the general benefit of such corporation or
entity.
Provided further, prior to entering into this
lease or approving a novation agreement in-
volving a change of ownership under this
lease, the Administrator of General Services
shall require the offeror or the parties re-
questing the novation, as applicable, to iden-
tify and disclose whether the owner of the
leased space, including an entity involved in
the financing thereof, is a foreign person or
a foreign-owned entity; provided further, in
such an instance, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services shall notify the occupant agen-
cy(ies) in writing, and consult with such oc-
cupant agency(ies) regarding security con-
cerns and necessary mitigation measures (if
any) prior to award of the lease or approval
of the novation agreement.
Provided that, to the maximum extent
practicable, the Administrator of General
Services shall require that the lease procure-
ment consider the availability of public
transportation consistent with agency mis-
sion requirements and that the space to be
leased be renovated for all cost effective im-
provements, including renewable energy up-
grades, water efficiency improvements, and
indoor air quality optimization, that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7954 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/25
here
EH250919.015
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
FALLS CHURCH, VA
PBS
Prospectus Number:
Congressional District:
PVA-03-FC20
8
Executive Summary
The General Services Administration (GSA) proposes the exercise of a renewal option of up to 5
years for approximately 334,103 rentable square feet (RSF) for the Social Security
Administration's (SSA) Office of Hearings Operations (OHO) and Office of Analytics, Review,
and Oversight (OARO), currently located at 5107 Leesburg Pike in Falls Church, VA. SSA has
occupied space in the building since October 1, 2009, under a lease that expires on September
30, 2019. Additionally, employees currently housed in a lease at 4401 Ford Avenue in
Alexandria, VA, that expires on June 5, 2022, will be consolidated into the existing footprint.
Renewal of the current lease located at 5107 Leesburg Pike in Falls Church will enable SSA to
provide continued housing for current personnel and meet its current mission requirements. SSA
will have office and overall utilization rates at 156 and 261 usable square feet (USF) per person,
respectively.
Description
Occupant:
Current RSF:
Estimated/Proposed Maximum RSF:
Expansion/Reduction RSF:
Current USF/Person:
Estimated/Proposed USF/Person:
Expiration Dates of Current Lease(s):
Proposed Maximum Leasing Authority:
Delineated Area:
Number of Official Parking Spaces:
Scoring:
Current Total Annual Cost:
Estimated Rental Rate1
:
Estimated Total Annual Cost2
:
SSA
355,809 (Current RSFIUSF 1.19)
334,I03 (Proposed RSF/USF 1.19)
21,706 reduction
279 (all-in)
261 (all-in)
09/30/2019; 6/5/2022
5 years
Fairfax County and Fairfax City
24
Operating
$11,845,007 (lease effective 10.'1/2009)
$27.75 i RSF
$9,271,358
' This estimate is for fiscal year fiscal year 2020 and may be escalated by 2 percent per year to the effective date of the lease to
account for inflation. The proposed rental rate is fully serviced including all operating expenses, whether paid by the lessor or
directly by the Government. GSA will conduct the procurement usmg. prevailmg market rental rates as a benchmark for the
evaluation of competitive offers and as the basi; for negotiating with offerors to ensure that lease award is made in the best
interest of the Government.
-New leases may contain an escalation cl;~use to provide for annual change~ in real estate taxes and operating costs.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7955
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/26
here
EH250919.016
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA PBS
Background
PROSPECTUS LEASE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
FALLS CHURCH, VA
Prospectus Number:
Congressional District:
PVA-03-FC20
8
The mission of SSA is to deliver quality social security services to the public through the three
programs it administers under the Social Security Act: the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance
program, the Disability Insurance program, and the Supplemental Security Income program.
SSA's OHO and OARO are two components responsible for holding hearings, issuing decisions,
and reviewing appeals as part of SSA's process for determining whether a person may receive
benefits.
OHO is one of the largest administrative adjudication systems in the world and directs a
nationwide field organization of administrative law judges (ALJ) who conduct impartial hearings
and make decisions on appealed detenninations involving retirement, survivors, disability, and
supplemental security income benefits.
OARO reviews ALJ decisions on appeal by claimants, or on its own motion, and processes cases
appealed to Federal court. The OARO Office of Appellate Operations serves through the
Appeals Council as the final level of administrative review for claimants appealing
administrative Jaw judge denials and dismissals of claims. The Office of Appellate Operations
also collects and analyzes nationwide data on policy compliance ofadjudicators and perfonnance
ofthe adjudication process.
Justification
This location houses both OHO and OARO offices. Maintaining these operations is essential to
SSA's execution offunctions under the Social Security Act.
The current lease at 5107 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, VA, expires on September 30,2019, and
SSA requires continued housing to meet its mission requirements until it can carry out a long-
tenn consolidation plan. A 5-year lease renewal will provide SSA with sufficient time to
formulate the consolidation plan and budget for move costs accordingly.
Summan: of Energy Compliance
GSA will incorporate energy efficiency requirements into the Request for Lease Proposals and
other documents related to the procurement of space based on the approved prospectus. GSA
encourages offerors to exceed minimum requirements set forth in the procurement and to achieve
an Energy Star perfonnance rating of75 or higher.
Resolutions of Approval
Resolutions adopted by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the
Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approving this prospectus will constitute
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7956 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/27
here
EH250919.017
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
PROSPECTUS-LEASE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
FALLS CHURCH, VA
Prospectus Number:
Congressional District:
PBS
PVA-03-FC20
8
approval to make appropriations to lease space in a facility that will yield the required rentable
area.
Interim Leasing
GSA will execute such interim leasing actions as are necessary to ensure continued housing of
the tenant agency prior to the effective date of the extension It is in the best interest of the
Government to avert the financial risk ofholdover tenancy.
Certification of Need
The proposed project is the best solution to meet a validated Government need.
Submitted at Washington, DC, on June 12.2019
Recommended: ____--=-..:.li-~-~-f'-....:.~~.;;._......;;.._":"_-:--_--_;::.-~-----------
Commissioner, Public Buildings Service
Approved: ________~~~~~~~----~~--~-----------------.-.
inistration
3
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7957
September 25, 2019
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION
AMENDED RESOLUTION—UNITED STATES
COURTHOUSE ANNEX, SAN DIEGO, CA
Resolved by the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, that pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 3307,
the resolution passed by the Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee dated Sep-
tember 24, 2009 is amended;
Provided that, the Administrator of the
General Services Administration shall en-
sure that the San Diego, California Court-
house Complex contains no more than 8
courtrooms and 16 chambers in the Carter-
Keep Courthouse Annex and no more than 16
courtrooms and 20 chambers in the Edward
J. Schwartz Federal Building and U.S. Court-
house, bringing the total number of court-
rooms and chambers at the San Diego Court-
house Complex to 24 courtrooms and 36
chambers.
The proviso ‘‘Provided that, the Adminis-
trator of General Services shall ensure that
the San Diego, California Courthouse Com-
plex contains no more than 22 courtrooms;’
is amended to read ‘‘Provided, that the Ad-
ministrator of General Services shall ensure
that the San Diego, California Courthouse
Complex contains no more than 24 court-
rooms;’’.
The proviso ‘‘Provided further, that the
Administrator of General Services shall not
construct more than six courtrooms or 12
chambers in the San Diego, California Court-
house Annex under the authority of this res-
olution;’’ is amended to read ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, that the Administrator of General
Services shall not construct more than eight
courtrooms or 16 chambers in the San Diego,
California Courthouse Annex under the au-
thority of this resolution;’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7958 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/29
here
EH250919.018
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
FACTSHEET
ALTERATIONS- COURT EXPANSION
SAN DIEGO COURTHOUSE COMPLEX
JAMES M. CARTER & JUDITH N. KEEP COURTHOUSE ANNEX
SAN DIEGO, CA
FV 2019 Proiect Summary
PBS
At its June 2017 meeting; the Judicial Conference Committee on Space and Facilities
approved a project for the construction of2 new district coumooms (and requisite holding
cells) and 4 magistrate judge chambers in the James M. Carter & Judith N. Keep
Courthouse Annex (Carter-Keep Courthouse Annex) located at 333 W. Broadway in San
Diego, CA. The additional courtrooms and chambers would support the space needs of
authorized replacement judges for five district judges who have taken senior status and two
district judges who are eligible to take senior status by the end of fiscal yem· 2019.
All Judicial Conference policies and business rules, b1cluding those on comtroom sharing,
were considered and applied by the Judiciary in developing this project and funding for the
project was included in the .Iudiciarts FY 2019 Budget.
Although this project is reimbursable and requires no authorization of Federal Building
Funds, GSA is unable to accept Reimbursable Work Authorization tbr the prqject due to a
previous House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Resolution adopted for
the Carter~Keep Courthouse Annex (formerly referred to as the San Diego Com1house
Amtex) on September 24, 2009. The resolution included the following provisions:
• " ...that the Administrator of General Services shall ensure that the San Diego,
California Courthouse Complex contains no more than 22 comirooms;" and,
• ·•...that the Administrator of General Services shall not construct more than six
courtrooms or 12 chambers in the San Diego, California Courthouse Annex under
the authority ofthis resolution;" and,
Completion of the project would result in 8 courtrooms and 16 chambers in the Carter-
Keep Courthouse Annex. Along with the 16 courtrooms and 20 chanibers in the Edward
J. Schwartz Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse (Schwmtz FB-CT), this project would
bring the total number ofcou11rooms and chambers at the San Diego Courthouse Complex
to 24 and 36, respectively1
•
Therefore, for GSA to complete the proposed Judiciary funded project, the Committee
would need to remove the existing restriction on GSA.
1 The total number of.iudges servihg the Southern District of Cnlifomi!1 in the Ninth Circuit is 38 including
one Circuit Judge whose chamber is in leased space.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7959
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/30
here
EH250919.019
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA P.BS
FACTSHE.ET
ALTERATIONS- COURT EXPANSION
SAN DIEGO COURTHOUSE COMPLEX
JAMES M. CARTER & JUDITH N. KEEP COURTHOUSE Al\lNEX
S~l'l DIEGO, CA
Project .Budget
GSA is not requesting authorization offederal Building Funds for this project; the
following information is provided for intbrmation only:
Estimated Construction Cost (ECC) ...............................................................9,924,000
M&l ....................................................................................................................647,000
Estimated Total Project·Cost (ETPC)2 .......................................;...........$11,529,000
Overview of the Proiect
The additional Courtrooms would be c.onstmcted on the 12th floor of the Carter-Keep
Courthouse Annex \Vhile the Magistrate Chambers would be built out on the 7111 floor.
These expansions necessitate the relocation ofthe Clerk from the l21h floor to the 7111 t1oor.
This relocation, along \:vith the construction of the Magistrate chambers would force the
displacement of a p01tion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) fi·om the 7th floor of the
Carter-Keep Courthouse Annex into leased space in the San Diego area. IRS' remaining
space r~quirement would continue to be housed in the Carter-Keep Courth01.1se Annex.
Holding cells would also be constructed adjacent to the new courtrooms and would be
funded by reimbursable funds from the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS).
The Judiciary would provide reimbursable funds to construct the two additional District
courtrooms, four additional Magistrate chambers and the relocation of the IRS.
Schedule
Design
Construction
San Diego Courthouse Complex
Sttut
FY 2019
FY 2020
.Jnmes M.. Curter & Judith N. Keep Courthouse Annex
End
.FY2020
FY 2021
The Carter-Keep Courthouse Annex was originally caHed the New San Diego Courthouse
Annex building but \-Vas renamed in early 2015 to the James M. Carter and Judith N. Keep
Courthouse in honor of two tbrmer federal judges. The 480,941 gross square foot (gst).
sixteen story (plus 3 undergro\md stories) building has a modern style ofofl:..,vhite exterior
brick and window glazing. It is connected to the Schwartz FBCT by an underground tunneL
Those two buildings~ the adjacent multi-story federal holding facility, which is not owned
2 Additional funds ;vould be provided by the AOUSC for the forced relocation ofiRS to leased space
including all move, data, and security costs.
2
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7960 September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/31
here
EH250919.020
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
FACTSHEET
ALTERATIONS -COURT EXPANSION
SAN DIEGO COURTHOUSE COMPLEX
.PBS
JAMES M. CARTER & JUDITH N. KEEP COURTHOUSE Al'i'NEX
SAN DIEGO, CA
by GSA. along with the historic Jacob Weinberger Courthouse located a block south, form
a Federal campus environment in downtown San Diego. The Carter-Keep Courthouse
Annex building houses the U.S. Courts, U.S. Marshals Service, IRS and GSA.
Edward J. Schwartz Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse
The 895,247 gsf Schwartz FB-CT, at 880 Front Street in downtown San Diego, was built
in 1973; It consists of two adjacent structures: a 6 story federal office wing, and a 5 story
court wing with underground parking and basement offices. The building's two wings share
an upper basement and are connected by a bridge between the fifth and sixth floors.
Impacted Tenant Agencies
U.S. District Court, U.S. Department of Justice - Marshals Service, Pretrial Services.
Federal Public Defender, Department ofTreasury- IntemaJ Revenue Service, and GSA
Major Worl{ Items
Interior Alterations
Electrical
Furnishing
HVAC
Demolition
Plumbing
Fire Protection
Elevators
Totnl ECC
.Justificntion
$5,072,000
1,943,000
1,094,000
867,000
257,000
239,000
239,000
213,000
$9,924,000
By the end of FY 2019, the number of active federal judges housed in the San Diego
Courthouse Complex is anticipated to increase from 30 to 37. After applying Judicial
Conference policies and business rules, including those on courtroom sharing, the number
of courtrooms and chambers at the San Diego Courthouse Complex would need to be
increased to meet those requirements.
...
_,
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7961
September 25, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.060 H25SEPT1
Insert
offset
folio
1257/32
here
EH250919.021
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
GSA
FACTSBEET
ALTERATIONS..~CQtlD.T EXPANSION
SAN DIEGO cfiCR.THOUSE COMPL.EX
PJ}§.
JAMES M. CARTER & JUDITH N•.KEEP COURTHOUSE ANNEX
SAN DIEGO, CA
§mise Requirements gfthe U.S. Courts- ~n Diego Court Complex
lc K c h : Current Proposed
arter-. eep .ourt ouse , I '
Courtrooms Judges Courtroom Judges
I
Annex
District 1 :
Active j 3 3 I 5 s
Senior i 3 3 ; ... 6
'
;)
Visiting 0 0 ' 0 0.
I
Magistrate ' 0 6 0 5
! Carter-Keep Courthouse 6 ll 8 16
Annex Total '
c t p
;
urreu ro!)OS
Sc1twartz FB-CT
Courtrooms Judae.s Courtrooms .Jud1es
!
· District·
i
"
;
Active ' s 5 I
8 8
I I
Senior ! s 6 l
2 5
' '
I Visiting ; . 0 1 I
0 1
i Malidstrate 6 4 ! 6 5
l Circuit
,,
0 2 !
0 2
'
! Schwartz .FB-CT Total*: ' 16 18 ! 16 21
"' Current and Proposed Total Number ofChambers is 20.
c p d
San Diego Comi I urrent ropose
, Courtrooan Judges Courtroom Judges
Complex I
District
I
Active 8 8 !
13 13
Senior I
8 9 I s ll
! Visiting 0 1 I
0 1
I
Magistrate 6 10 I 6 10
ICircuit* 0 2 I 0 2
I San Diego Court I I
I
24 30 ,. 24 37
IComplex Totals"'*: t j
*There are 3 Circuit Judges cttn-ently serving the Southern District of California in the Ninth
Circuit. 2 ofthe Circuit Judges are housed in the San Diego Court Complex, 1is housed in leased ·
space.
**Upon completion of the proposed project, 37 Judges will be housed 'in the San Diego Cout1
Complex in 36 chambers- I chaniber suite is and wjll be shared between a Senior.and a Visiting·
Judge. With the addition ofthe 1Circuit Judge currently in leased space, the totalnwnber ofJudges
serving the Southern District ofCalifornia in the Ninth Circuit will be 38.
·4
i
!
i
!
l
i
I
i
I
l
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7962 September 25, 2019
There was no objection.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
SECURE AND FAIR ENFORCEMENT
BANKING ACT OF 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1595) to create protections for
depository institutions that provide fi-
nancial services to cannabis-related le-
gitimate businesses and service pro-
viders for such businesses, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1595
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; PURPOSE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Secure And Fair Enforcement Banking
Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘SAFE Banking Act of
2019’’.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is to
increase public safety by ensuring access to
financial services to cannabis-related legiti-
mate businesses and service providers and re-
ducing the amount of cash at such busi-
nesses.
SEC. 2. SAFE HARBOR FOR DEPOSITORY INSTITU-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—A Federal banking regu-
lator may not—
(1) terminate or limit the deposit insur-
ance or share insurance of a depository insti-
tution under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.), the Federal Cred-
it Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), or take
any other adverse action against a deposi-
tory institution under section 8 of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818)
solely because the depository institution
provides or has provided financial services to
a cannabis-related legitimate business or
service provider;
(2) prohibit, penalize, or otherwise discour-
age a depository institution from providing
financial services to a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business or service provider or to a
State, political subdivision of a State, or In-
dian Tribe that exercises jurisdiction over
cannabis-related legitimate businesses;
(3) recommend, incentivize, or encourage a
depository institution not to offer financial
services to an account holder, or to down-
grade or cancel the financial services offered
to an account holder solely because—
(A) the account holder is a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business or service provider,
or is an employee, owner, or operator of a
cannabis-related legitimate business or serv-
ice provider;
(B) the account holder later becomes an
employee, owner, or operator of a cannabis-
related legitimate business or service pro-
vider; or
(C) the depository institution was not
aware that the account holder is an em-
ployee, owner, or operator of a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business or service provider;
(4) take any adverse or corrective super-
visory action on a loan made to—
(A) a cannabis-related legitimate business
or service provider, solely because the busi-
ness is a cannabis-related legitimate busi-
ness or service provider;
(B) an employee, owner, or operator of a
cannabis-related legitimate business or serv-
ice provider, solely because the employee,
owner, or operator is employed by, owns, or
operates a cannabis-related legitimate busi-
ness or service provider, as applicable; or
(C) an owner or operator of real estate or
equipment that is leased to a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business or service provider,
solely because the owner or operator of the
real estate or equipment leased the equip-
ment or real estate to a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business or service provider, as ap-
plicable; or
(5) prohibit or penalize a depository insti-
tution (or entity performing a financial serv-
ice for or in association with a depository in-
stitution) for, or otherwise discourage a de-
pository institution (or entity performing a
financial service for or in association with a
depository institution) from, engaging in a
financial service for a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business or service provider.
(b) SAFE HARBOR APPLICABLE TO DE NOVO
INSTITUTIONS.—Subsection (a) shall apply to
an institution applying for a depository in-
stitution charter to the same extent as such
subsection applies to a depository institu-
tion.
SEC. 3. PROTECTIONS FOR ANCILLARY BUSI-
NESSES.
For the purposes of sections 1956 and 1957
of title 18, United States Code, and all other
provisions of Federal law, the proceeds from
a transaction involving activities of a can-
nabis-related legitimate business or service
provider shall not be considered proceeds
from an unlawful activity solely because—
(1) the transaction involves proceeds from
a cannabis-related legitimate business or
service provider; or
(2) the transaction involves proceeds
from—
(A) cannabis-related activities described in
section 14(4)(B) conducted by a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business; or
(B) activities described in section 14(13)(A)
conducted by a service provider.
SEC. 4. PROTECTIONS UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to providing
a financial service to a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business or service provider within
a State, political subdivision of a State, or
Indian country that allows the cultivation,
production, manufacture, sale, transpor-
tation, display, dispensing, distribution, or
purchase of cannabis pursuant to a law or
regulation of such State, political subdivi-
sion, or Indian Tribe that has jurisdiction
over the Indian country, as applicable, a de-
pository institution, entity performing a fi-
nancial service for or in association with a
depository institution, or insurer that pro-
vides a financial service to a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business or service provider,
and the officers, directors, and employees of
that depository institution, entity, or in-
surer may not be held liable pursuant to any
Federal law or regulation—
(1) solely for providing such a financial
service; or
(2) for further investing any income de-
rived from such a financial service.
(b) PROTECTIONS FOR FEDERAL RESERVE
BANKS AND FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.—
With respect to providing a service to a de-
pository institution that provides a financial
service to a cannabis-related legitimate busi-
ness or service provider (where such finan-
cial service is provided within a State, polit-
ical subdivision of a State, or Indian country
that allows the cultivation, production,
manufacture, sale, transportation, display,
dispensing, distribution, or purchase of can-
nabis pursuant to a law or regulation of such
State, political subdivision, or Indian Tribe
that has jurisdiction over the Indian coun-
try, as applicable), a Federal reserve bank or
Federal Home Loan Bank, and the officers,
directors, and employees of the Federal re-
serve bank or Federal Home Loan Bank, may
not be held liable pursuant to any Federal
law or regulation—
(1) solely for providing such a service; or
(2) for further investing any income de-
rived from such a service.
(c) PROTECTIONS FOR INSURERS.—With re-
spect to engaging in the business of insur-
ance within a State, political subdivision of
a State, or Indian country that allows the
cultivation, production, manufacture, sale,
transportation, display, dispensing, distribu-
tion, or purchase of cannabis pursuant to a
law or regulation of such State, political
subdivision, or Indian Tribe that has juris-
diction over the Indian country, as applica-
ble, an insurer that engages in the business
of insurance with a cannabis-related legiti-
mate business or service provider or who
otherwise engages with a person in a trans-
action permissible under State law related
to cannabis, and the officers, directors, and
employees of that insurer may not be held
liable pursuant to any Federal law or regula-
tion—
(1) solely for engaging in the business of in-
surance; or
(2) for further investing any income de-
rived from the business of insurance.
(d) FORFEITURE.—
(1) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.—A depository
institution that has a legal interest in the
collateral for a loan or another financial
service provided to an owner, employee, or
operator of a cannabis-related legitimate
business or service provider, or to an owner
or operator of real estate or equipment that
is leased or sold to a cannabis-related legiti-
mate business or service provider, shall not
be subject to criminal, civil, or administra-
tive forfeiture of that legal interest pursuant
to any Federal law for providing such loan or
other financial service.
(2) FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FEDERAL
HOME LOAN BANKS.—A Federal reserve bank
or Federal Home Loan Bank that has a legal
interest in the collateral for a loan or an-
other financial service provided to a deposi-
tory institution that provides a financial
service to a cannabis-related legitimate busi-
ness or service provider, or to an owner or
operator of real estate or equipment that is
leased or sold to a cannabis-related legiti-
mate business or service provider, shall not
be subject to criminal, civil, or administra-
tive forfeiture of that legal interest pursuant
to any Federal law for providing such loan or
other financial service.
SEC. 5. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
(a) NO REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL
SERVICES.—Nothing in this Act shall require
a depository institution, entity performing a
financial service for or in association with a
depository institution, or insurer to provide
financial services to a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business, service provider, or any
other business.
(b) GENERAL EXAMINATION, SUPERVISORY,
AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed in any way as
limiting or otherwise restricting the general
examination, supervisory, and enforcement
authority of the Federal banking regulators,
provided that the basis for any supervisory
or enforcement action is not the provision of
financial services to a cannabis-related le-
gitimate business or service provider.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.053 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7963
September 25, 2019
SEC. 6. REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING SUSPICIOUS
ACTIVITY REPORTS.
Section 5318(g) of title 31, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(5) REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS-RELATED
LEGITIMATE BUSINESSES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a finan-
cial institution or any director, officer, em-
ployee, or agent of a financial institution
that reports a suspicious transaction pursu-
ant to this subsection, if the reason for the
report relates to a cannabis-related legiti-
mate business or service provider, the report
shall comply with appropriate guidance
issued by the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network. The Secretary shall ensure that
the guidance is consistent with the purpose
and intent of the SAFE Banking Act of 2019
and does not significantly inhibit the provi-
sion of financial services to a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business or service provider
in a State, political subdivision of a State, or
Indian country that has allowed the cultiva-
tion, production, manufacture, transpor-
tation, display, dispensing, distribution,
sale, or purchase of cannabis pursuant to law
or regulation of such State, political subdivi-
sion, or Indian Tribe that has jurisdiction
over the Indian country.
‘‘(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
paragraph:
‘‘(i) CANNABIS.—The term ‘cannabis’ has
the meaning given the term ‘marihuana’ in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U.S.C. 802).
‘‘(ii) CANNABIS-RELATED LEGITIMATE BUSI-
NESS.—The term ‘cannabis-related legiti-
mate business’ has the meaning given that
term in section 14 of the SAFE Banking Act
of 2019.
‘‘(iii) INDIAN COUNTRY.—The term ‘Indian
country’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1151 of title 18.
‘‘(iv) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian
Tribe’ has the meaning given that term in
section 102 of the Federally Recognized In-
dian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a).
‘‘(v) FINANCIAL SERVICE.—The term ‘finan-
cial service’ has the meaning given that
term in section 14 of the SAFE Banking Act
of 2019.
‘‘(vi) SERVICE PROVIDER.—The term ‘service
provider’ has the meaning given that term in
section 14 of the SAFE Banking Act of 2019.
‘‘(vii) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means
each of the several States, the District of Co-
lumbia, Puerto Rico, and any territory or
possession of the United States.’’.
SEC. 7. GUIDANCE AND EXAMINATION PROCE-
DURES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Financial Institu-
tions Examination Council shall develop uni-
form guidance and examination procedures
for depository institutions that provide fi-
nancial services to cannabis-related legiti-
mate businesses and service providers.
SEC. 8. ANNUAL DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION RE-
PORT.
The Federal banking regulators shall issue
an annual report to Congress containing—
(1) information and data on the avail-
ability of access to financial services for mi-
nority-owned and women-owned cannabis-re-
lated legitimate businesses; and
(2) any regulatory or legislative rec-
ommendations for expanding access to finan-
cial services for minority-owned and women-
owned cannabis-related legitimate busi-
nesses.
SEC. 9. GAO STUDY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLU-
SION.
(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall carry out a study on
the barriers to marketplace entry, including
in the licensing process, and the access to fi-
nancial services for potential and existing
minority-owned and women-owned cannabis-
related legitimate businesses.
(b) REPORT.—The Comptroller General
shall issue a report to the Congress—
(1) containing all findings and determina-
tions made in carrying out the study re-
quired under subsection (a); and
(2) containing any regulatory or legislative
recommendations for removing barriers to
marketplace entry, including in the licens-
ing process, and expanding access to finan-
cial services for potential and existing mi-
nority-owned and women-owned cannabis-re-
lated legitimate businesses.
SEC. 10. GAO STUDY ON EFFECTIVENESS OF CER-
TAIN REPORTS ON FINDING CER-
TAIN PERSONS.
Not later than 2 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall carry out a
study on the effectiveness of reports on sus-
picious transactions filed pursuant to sec-
tion 5318(g) of title 31, United States Code, at
finding individuals or organizations sus-
pected or known to be engaged with
transnational criminal organizations and
whether any such engagement exists in a
State, political subdivision, or Indian Tribe
that has jurisdiction over Indian country
that allows the cultivation, production,
manufacture, sale, transportation, display,
dispensing, distribution, or purchase of can-
nabis. The study shall examine reports on
suspicious transactions as follows:
(1) During the period of 2014 until the date
of the enactment of this Act, reports relat-
ing to marijuana-related businesses.
(2) During the 1-year period after date of
the enactment of this Act, reports relating
to cannabis-related legitimate businesses.
SEC. 11. BANKING SERVICES FOR HEMP BUSI-
NESSES.
(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that—
(1) the Agriculture Improvement Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–334) legalized hemp by
removing it from the definition of ‘‘mari-
huana’’ under the Controlled Substances
Act;
(2) despite the legalization of hemp, some
hemp businesses (including producers, manu-
facturers, and retailers) continue to have dif-
ficulty gaining access to banking products
and services; and
(3) businesses involved in the sale of hemp-
derived cannabidiol (‘‘CBD’’) products are
particularly affected, due to confusion about
their legal status.
(b) FEDERAL BANKING REGULATOR HEMP
BANKING GUIDANCE.—Not later than the end
of the 90-day period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act, the Federal banking
regulators shall jointly issue guidance to fi-
nancial institutions—
(1) confirming the legality of hemp, hemp-
derived CBD products, and other hemp-de-
rived cannabinoid products, and the legality
of engaging in financial services with busi-
nesses selling hemp, hemp-derived CBD prod-
ucts, and other hemp-derived cannabinoid
products, after the enactment of the Agri-
culture Improvement Act of 2018; and
(2) to provide recommended best practices
for financial institutions to follow when pro-
viding financial services and merchant proc-
essing services to businesses involved in the
sale of hemp, hemp-derived CBD products,
and other hemp-derived cannabinoid prod-
ucts.
(c) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘financial institution’’
means any person providing financial serv-
ices.
SEC. 12. APPLICATION OF SAFE HARBORS TO
HEMP AND CBD PRODUCTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided under
subsection (b), the provisions of this Act
(other than sections 6 and 10) shall apply to
hemp (including hemp-derived cannabidiol
and other hemp-derived cannabinoid prod-
ucts) in the same manner as such provisions
apply to cannabis.
(b) RULE OF APPLICATION.—In applying the
provisions of this Act described under sub-
section (a) to hemp, the definition of ‘‘can-
nabis-related legitimate business’’ shall be
treated as excluding any requirement to en-
gage in activity pursuant to the law of a
State or political subdivision thereof.
(c) HEMP DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘hemp’’ has the meaning given that
term under section 297A of the Agricultural
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1639o).
SEC. 13. REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPOSIT ACCOUNT
TERMINATION REQUESTS AND OR-
DERS.
(a) TERMINATION REQUESTS OR ORDERS
MUST BE VALID.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An appropriate Federal
banking agency may not formally or infor-
mally request or order a depository institu-
tion to terminate a specific customer ac-
count or group of customer accounts or to
otherwise restrict or discourage a depository
institution from entering into or maintain-
ing a banking relationship with a specific
customer or group of customers unless—
(A) the agency has a valid reason for such
request or order; and
(B) such reason is not based solely on rep-
utation risk.
(2) TREATMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY
THREATS.—If an appropriate Federal banking
agency believes a specific customer or group
of customers is, or is acting as a conduit for,
an entity which—
(A) poses a threat to national security;
(B) is involved in terrorist financing;
(C) is an agency of the Government of Iran,
North Korea, Syria, or any country listed
from time to time on the State Sponsors of
Terrorism list;
(D) is located in, or is subject to the juris-
diction of, any country specified in subpara-
graph (C); or
(E) does business with any entity described
in subparagraph (C) or (D), unless the appro-
priate Federal banking agency determines
that the customer or group of customers has
used due diligence to avoid doing business
with any entity described in subparagraph
(C) or (D),
such belief shall satisfy the requirement
under paragraph (1).
(b) NOTICE REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If an appropriate Federal
banking agency formally or informally re-
quests or orders a depository institution to
terminate a specific customer account or a
group of customer accounts, the agency
shall—
(A) provide such request or order to the in-
stitution in writing; and
(B) accompany such request or order with
a written justification for why such termi-
nation is needed, including any specific laws
or regulations the agency believes are being
violated by the customer or group of cus-
tomers, if any.
(2) JUSTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—A jus-
tification described under paragraph (1)(B)
may not be based solely on the reputation
risk to the depository institution.
(c) CUSTOMER NOTICE.—
(1) NOTICE REQUIRED.—Except as provided
under paragraph (2) or as otherwise prohib-
ited from being disclosed by law, if an appro-
priate Federal banking agency orders a de-
pository institution to terminate a specific
customer account or a group of customer ac-
counts, the depository institution shall in-
form the specific customer or group of cus-
tomers of the justification for the customer’s
account termination described under sub-
section (b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.027 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7964 September 25, 2019
(2) NOTICE PROHIBITED.—
(A) NOTICE PROHIBITED IN CASES OF NA-
TIONAL SECURITY.—If an appropriate Federal
banking agency requests or orders a deposi-
tory institution to terminate a specific cus-
tomer account or a group of customer ac-
counts based on a belief that the customer or
customers pose a threat to national security,
or are otherwise described under subsection
(a)(2), neither the depository institution nor
the appropriate Federal banking agency may
inform the customer or customers of the jus-
tification for the customer’s account termi-
nation.
(B) NOTICE PROHIBITED IN OTHER CASES.—If
an appropriate Federal banking agency de-
termines that the notice required under
paragraph (1) may interfere with an author-
ized criminal investigation, neither the de-
pository institution nor the appropriate Fed-
eral banking agency may inform the specific
customer or group of customers of the jus-
tification for the customer’s account termi-
nation.
(d) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Each appro-
priate Federal banking agency shall issue an
annual report to the Congress stating—
(1) the aggregate number of specific cus-
tomer accounts that the agency requested or
ordered a depository institution to termi-
nate during the previous year; and
(2) the legal authority on which the agency
relied in making such requests and orders
and the frequency on which the agency relied
on each such authority.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGEN-
CY.—The term ‘‘appropriate Federal banking
agency’’ means—
(A) the appropriate Federal banking agen-
cy, as defined under section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
(B) the National Credit Union Administra-
tion, in the case of an insured credit union.
(2) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term
‘‘depository institution’’ means—
(A) a depository institution, as defined
under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
(B) an insured credit union.
SEC. 14. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) BUSINESS OF INSURANCE.—The term
‘‘business of insurance’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 1002 of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5481).
(2) CANNABIS.—The term ‘‘cannabis’’ has
the meaning given the term ‘‘marihuana’’ in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U.S.C. 802).
(3) CANNABIS PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘can-
nabis product’’ means any article which con-
tains cannabis, including an article which is
a concentrate, an edible, a tincture, a can-
nabis-infused product, or a topical.
(4) CANNABIS-RELATED LEGITIMATE BUSI-
NESS.—The term ‘‘cannabis-related legiti-
mate business’’ means a manufacturer, pro-
ducer, or any person or company that—
(A) engages in any activity described in
subparagraph (B) pursuant to a law estab-
lished by a State or a political subdivision of
a State, as determined by such State or po-
litical subdivision; and
(B) participates in any business or orga-
nized activity that involves handling can-
nabis or cannabis products, including culti-
vating, producing, manufacturing, selling,
transporting, displaying, dispensing, distrib-
uting, or purchasing cannabis or cannabis
products.
(5) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term
‘‘depository institution’’ means—
(A) a depository institution as defined in
section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B) a Federal credit union as defined in
section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act
(12 U.S.C. 1752); or
(C) a State credit union as defined in sec-
tion 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
U.S.C. 1752).
(6) FEDERAL BANKING REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal banking regulator’’ means
each of the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System, the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection, the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation, the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, the Office of
Foreign Asset Control, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the National
Credit Union Administration, the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, or any Federal agency
or department that regulates banking or fi-
nancial services, as determined by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
(7) FINANCIAL SERVICE.—The term ‘‘finan-
cial service’’—
(A) means a financial product or service, as
defined in section 1002 of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protec-
tion Act (12 U.S.C. 5481);
(B) includes the business of insurance;
(C) includes, whether performed directly or
indirectly, the authorizing, processing,
clearing, settling, billing, transferring for
deposit, transmitting, delivering, instructing
to be delivered, reconciling, collecting, or
otherwise effectuating or facilitating of pay-
ments or funds, where such payments or
funds are made or transferred by any means,
including by the use of credit cards, debit
cards, other payment cards, or other access
devices, accounts, original or substitute
checks, or electronic funds transfers;
(D) includes acting as a money transmit-
ting business which directly or indirectly
makes use of a depository institution in con-
nection with effectuating or facilitating a
payment for a cannabis-related legitimate
business or service provider in compliance
with section 5330 of title 31, United States
Code, and any applicable State law; and
(E) includes acting as an armored car serv-
ice for processing and depositing with a de-
pository institution or a Federal reserve
bank with respect to any monetary instru-
ments (as defined under section 1956(c)(5) of
title 18, United States Code.
(8) INDIAN COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘Indian
country’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1151 of title 18.
(9) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Indian Tribe’’
has the meaning given that term in section
102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe
List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a).
(10) INSURER.—The term ‘‘insurer’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 313(r)
of title 31, United States Code.
(11) MANUFACTURER.—The term ‘‘manufac-
turer’’ means a person who manufactures,
compounds, converts, processes, prepares, or
packages cannabis or cannabis products.
(12) PRODUCER.—The term ‘‘producer’’
means a person who plants, cultivates, har-
vests, or in any way facilitates the natural
growth of cannabis.
(13) SERVICE PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘service
provider’’—
(A) means a business, organization, or
other person that—
(i) sells goods or services to a cannabis-re-
lated legitimate business; or
(ii) provides any business services, includ-
ing the sale or lease of real or any other
property, legal or other licensed services, or
any other ancillary service, relating to can-
nabis; and
(B) does not include a business, organiza-
tion, or other person that participates in any
business or organized activity that involves
handling cannabis or cannabis products, in-
cluding cultivating, producing, manufac-
turing, selling, transporting, displaying, dis-
pensing, distributing, or purchasing cannabis
or cannabis products.
(14) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, Puerto Rico, and any territory or pos-
session of the United States.
SEC. 15. DISCRETIONARY SURPLUS FUNDS.
Section 7(a)(3)(A) of the Federal Reserve
Act (12 U.S.C. 289(a)(3)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘$6,825,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$6,821,000,000’’.
SEC. 16. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. PERLMUTTER) and the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Colorado.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 1595.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Colorado?
There was no objection.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud we are here
today to pass this bill about public
safety, accountability, and respecting
States’ rights. Forty-seven States, four
U.S. territories, and the District of Co-
lumbia have spoken and legalized some
form of recreational or medical mari-
juana, including cannabidiol. 318.2 mil-
lion people live in those 47 States. That
is 97.7 percent of the population.
However, because marijuana remains
illegal under Federal law, businesses in
these States are forced to deal in cash.
These businesses, their employees, and
ancillary businesses cannot access the
banking system.
The fact is, the people in States and
localities across the country are voting
to approve some level of marijuana
use, and we need these marijuana busi-
nesses and employees to have access to
checking accounts, lines of credit, pay-
roll accounts, and more.
This will improve transparency and
accountability and help law enforce-
ment root out illegal transactions to
prevent tax evasion, money laundering,
and other white-collar crime.
Most importantly, Mr. Speaker, this
will also reduce the risk of violent
crime in our communities. These busi-
nesses and their employees become tar-
gets for murder, robbery, assault, and
more by dealing in all cash, and this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.027 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7965
September 25, 2019
puts the employees and store owners at
risk. Congressman HECK will speak di-
rectly to this point.
The SAFE Banking Act will create a
safe harbor for financial institutions
and their employees who choose to do
business with a marijuana company.
Section 3 of the bill is particularly
important to not only marijuana busi-
nesses but everyone who might do busi-
ness with a marijuana-related com-
pany. This section would protect ancil-
lary businesses like real estate owners,
accountants, electricians, and vendors
by clarifying that the proceeds from le-
gitimate cannabis businesses are not il-
legal under Federal laws. This proceeds
section is the key provision, allowing
all cannabis-related businesses and
their service providers to access the
banking system without fear of re-
prisal.
We have worked with our Republican
colleagues on a few changes to improve
the bill since it was marked up in
March.
As Mr. BARR will discuss, the bill
now includes protections for financial
institutions to provide financial serv-
ices to hemp and CBD businesses since
we have learned the provisions from
the farm bill last year did not provide
sufficient clarity for banks and credit
unions to provide these services.
At Mr. STIVERS’ urging, we expanded
the protections in the bill for various
insurance products, such as workers
compensation.
Additionally, we have added language
from Mr. LUETKEMEYER’s Financial In-
stitution Customer Protection Act,
which passed the House 395–2 last Con-
gress. This language would prohibit
bank regulators from directing a bank
to close an account for reputational
reasons.
In summary, if someone wants to op-
pose the legalization of marijuana,
that is their prerogative. But American
voters have spoken and continue to
speak. The fact is that you can’t put
the genie back in the bottle. Prohibi-
tion is over.
Our bill is focused solely on taking
cash off the streets and making our
communities safer. Only Congress can
take these steps to provide this cer-
tainty for businesses, employees, and
financial institutions across the coun-
try.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
HECK for his partnership through the
years on this bill. I also thank Rep-
resentative STIVERS and Representa-
tive DAVIDSON for their support and co-
sponsorship of the SAFE Banking Act.
Subcommittee Chairman GREG MEEKS
and Representative KATIE PORTER have
been very helpful in the process.
Finally, I thank Chairwoman MAXINE
WATERS for shepherding this bill
through the Financial Services Com-
mittee and making this a priority.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in voting ‘‘yes,’’ and I reserve
the balance of my time.
b 1630
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
H.R. 1595.
Before I go into the contents of my
argument against this legislation, I
want to start by commending the bill’s
sponsor, Mr. PERLMUTTER from Colo-
rado, for his tireless advocacy, his rea-
sonableness in his approach, and his
willingness, even in the midst of the
toughest negotiations around the sub-
ject matter, to keep his cool, to think
through the import of the bill, and to
seek compromise where he could.
It is quite a legislative endeavor that
he has taken upon for himself, for this
institution, for his State, and for
States around the country. He has been
a fantastic advocate.
And I would say that, standing in op-
position to this bill, it is not because of
his lack of good will. It is not for lack
of his willingness to engage, but for a
fundamental disagreement in the ap-
proach. We have been able to have real
discussions around this that I think
would make the American people more
proud or more confident in this institu-
tion and our body politic, more broadly
speaking.
I also want to thank my friend and
colleague on the committee, Mr. STIV-
ERS from Ohio, for his work on the
issue. Together, they have conducted
themselves with wonderful integrity
and respect for their colleagues and
their colleagues’ views and ideas, espe-
cially on an issue like this where it can
create an enormous amount of con-
troversy.
Twenty-one States have legalized
medicinal marijuana, and 10 States
have legalized the recreational use of
the drug. However, cannabis remains
completely illegal in 19 States. Federal
law defines this as a drug that has ‘‘a
high potential for abuse; no currently
accepted medical use in treatment in
the United States; and a lack of accept-
ed safety for use of the drug . . . under
medical supervision.’’ That is the cur-
rent Federal law.
This bill does not change the fact
that cannabis remains a prohibited
schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act.
To that end, if we seek to give finan-
cial institutions certainty, we should
deal with the listing of cannabis as a
schedule I substance, not debating a
partial solution for financial institu-
tions to what is a much larger problem
and a larger societal issue that we
must wrestle with.
Should States be allowed to continue
to violate Federal law? Does Federal
law need to be changed when it comes
to the scheduling of cannabis?
We have an FDA that regulates ciga-
rettes and e-cigarettes, which, as we
know, there is the recent announce-
ment that they will seek a ban on fla-
vored e-cigarettes. But the FDA has no
regulatory authority to regulate can-
nabis.
The bill we are considering today is
one of the biggest changes to U.S. drug
policy in my lifetime, yet it was done
with little debate. While our com-
mittee has jurisdiction over financial
institutions—in the nature of our de-
bate, it is usually about the nature of
regulation for the capital markets and
for banks—we heard little from the
committees of jurisdiction over the
Controlled Substances Act or the
Criminal Code. In fact, the Financial
Services Committee is the only one
that has held a hearing on the issue of
cannabis this Congress.
Now, I would say that is due to the
leadership of Mr. PERLMUTTER and his
tireless advocacy for this, but we only
had one panel of witnesses. I voiced my
concerns in our jurisdiction to Chair-
woman WATERS and to Congressman
PERLMUTTER about my concerns for
this.
In March of this year, I wrote Chair-
woman WATERS to express my belief
that we need to have a better com-
prehension of the nature of this sub-
stance and address the supervisory and
regulatory issues that would result
from enactment of H.R. 1595. I include
in the RECORD a copy of that letter.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
The Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
Washington, DC.
The Hon. GREGORY W. MEEKS,
Chairman, Subcommittee on Consumer Protec-
tion and Financial Institutions, Washington
DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS AND CHAIRMAN
MEEKS: We write today to seek your agree-
ment to delay consideration of H.R. 1595, the
SAFE Act, currently scheduled to be marked
up on March 26, 2019, until the Committee
has a better understanding of the full range
of consequences that enacting such legisla-
tion may trigger. As you know, marijuana is
a schedule I controlled substance as defined
in 21 U.S.C. 802. The impact that many state
laws, which have legalized marijuana, have
on the federal laws governing the manufac-
turing, use, and sale of marijuana, including
proceeds, raise many questions and concerns.
Any change to these statutes, or those that
impact them, has the potential to divide the
Congress and the country. We must ensure
that Congress has done its due diligence, in-
cluding conducting thorough oversight and
review, before moving such legislation.
The hearing at the Committee on Finan-
cial Services on February 13, 2019, made clear
that we need to better comprehend and ad-
dress the supervisory and regulatory issues
that would result from enactment of H.R.
1595. Many outstanding questions remain,
which include but are not limited to the fol-
lowing:
1. What changes to our banking laws are
necessary to implement the SAFE Banking
Act or other legislation creating a safe har-
bor for cannabis-related businesses?
2. How would individual agencies enforce
Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) requirements fol-
lowing enactment of the SAFE Banking Act?
What changes would be required of BSA re-
quirements?
3. How would individual agencies enforce
anti-money laundering (AML) regulations
following enactment of the SAFE Banking
Act? Would AML reforms be necessary?
4. How would individual agencies enforce
Know Your Customer (KYC) rules following
enactment of the SAFE Banking Act? What
changes would be required of KYC rules?
5. How would individual agencies enforce
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) filing re-
quirements and guidelines following passage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.054 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7966 September 25, 2019
of the SAFE Banking Act? What changes
would be required of SAR filing requirements
and guidelines to ensure illicit financial ac-
tivities were not being financed?
6. How would individual agencies enforce
Currency Transaction Report (CTR) filing re-
quirements and guidelines following enact-
ment of the SAFE Banking Act? What
changes would be required of CTR filing re-
quirements and guidelines?
7. In what ways are agencies working with
state counterparts, including state banking
and securities supervisors, under the existing
regime? How would those cooperative rela-
tionships change with enactment of H.R.
1595?
8. Would H.R. 1595 require conforming
changes to any of the statues, rules, and re-
quirements previously listed to ensure there
are no unintended consequences, such as car-
tels and other bad actors gaining access to
our financial system?
9. Would the safe harbor require any
changes to the rules or processes governing
federal deposit insurance systems?
10. What are the implications of H.R. 1595
on nonbank financial firms, including insur-
ers and investment companies?
11. What are the implications of H.R 1595
on third parties, including payment proc-
essors?
12. What are the implications of H.R. 1595
on individual and institutional investors of
cannabis-related businesses?
13. What are the implications of RR.1595 on
federal, state, and local law enforcement, in-
cluding the Department of Justice and the
Drug Enforcement Agency?
14. How are proceeds from state licensed
growers and distributers taxed under federal
law? Relatedly, what conforming changes to
our tax code are necessary?
15. What are the implications of H.R. 1595
on other products and services offered by fi-
nancial institutions, including but not lim-
ited to mortgage products, deposit advance
products or general commercial lending?
As Members of Congress, and the Com-
mittee of primary jurisdiction, we owe it to
our constituents and to the public to fully
understand the implications of any legisla-
tion before supporting or opposing it. We
urge you to hold H.R. 1595 and any related
legislation until we have a full under-
standing of the consequences of this bill.
Sincerely,
PATRICK MCHENRY,
Ranking Member.
BLAINE LUETKEMEYER,
Ranking Member.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, in that
letter, I listed a number of questions
that have yet to be answered, includ-
ing:
What steps will Federal financial reg-
ulators have to take to harmonize
standards and protect against illicit
activity, including institutions’ obliga-
tions with respect to the Bank Secrecy
Act, anti-money laundering require-
ments, suspicious activity reports, and
currency transaction reports?
What are the implications of this bill
on nonbank financial firms, including
investment companies?
I know there have been additions,
since we have come to the floor, to in-
clude insurance companies, and I think
that is a positive step. But these are
some of the basic questions that still
need to be resolved.
It is also important that we under-
stand whether this legislation could
lead to bad actors, like drug cartels,
that could more easily access our
banking system in the United States.
These concerns have been echoed by
several former Directors of the Office
of National Drug Control Policy and
former Administrators of the Drug En-
forcement Administration.
In a July letter from this year,
former law enforcement officials serv-
ing from 1981 to 2014 have voiced con-
cerns that the SAFE Banking Act
could be exploited to provide easier,
more cost-effective ways for nefarious
groups to launder money. I include in
the RECORD a copy of that letter.
Hon. MIKE CRAPO,
Chairman, U.S. Senate Committee on Banking,
Housing, & Urban Affairs, Washington, DC.
Hon. SHERROD BROWN,
Ranking Member, U.S. Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, & Urban Affairs, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CRAPO AND RANKING MEM-
BER BROWN: We write as former Directors of
the Office of National Drug Control Policy
and former Administrators of the Drug En-
forcement Administration to warn about the
unintended consequences of the SAFE Bank-
ing Act to legalize the banking of federally
illegal proceeds from the sale of marijuana.
Some Members of your Committee may be
familiar with the Black Market Peso Ex-
change that has been in operation for several
decades. This scheme has enabled inter-
national drug cartels to launder billions of
U.S. dollars through international monetary
exchanges and has ensnared many banks and
mainstream U.S. companies.
The lesson that the Black Market Peso Ex-
change teaches us is that cartels will go to
enormous lengths and use sophisticated and
complex methods to move cash into banks-
since laundering money is the life-blood of
criminal organizations. It is therefore a vir-
tual certainty that cartels will seek to ex-
ploit the SAFE Banking act if it provides
them with an easier and more cost-effective
means to launder their money.
Because cash made from the sale of mari-
juana looks the same regardless of what it
was used to pay for, it will be extremely dif-
ficult for banks to know whether large bun-
dles of cash presented for deposit were made
from the sale of marijuana rather than from
the sale of heroin, fentanyl, or methamphet-
amine.
In short, the SAFE Banking Act could in-
advertently allow cartels to bring into banks
duffel bags of cash made from the sale of
those illicit drugs that are killing tens of
thousands of Americans every year.
Consider the current landscape of offering
banking services to cash-intensive mari-
juana businesses. Even if customers are of-
fered the opportunity to pay in credit, many
customers will choose to pay cash to avoid
being tracked within, the state seed-to-sale
tracking system.
While banks know how much cash to ex-
pect from other cash-intensive businesses
like dry cleaners or convenience stores, it
will be very difficult to figure out when a
marijuana dispensary is participating in a
money laundering scheme. The scale of the
marijuana industry is already such that
there are huge opportunities for these
dispensaries to be the destination for cartel
cash. Indeed, we have already seen many
cases of cartels using the cover of legaliza-
tion to operate illicit marijuana grows and
black market activity. Two recent examples
within the past year involved organized ef-
forts to expel Mexican drug cartels growing
marijuana in Northern California—including
a request to use the California National
Guard, and the May 2019 bust of the largest
international drug trafficking organization
in Colorado law enforcement history, with
over 80,000 plants in over 250 locations and 4.5
tons of finished marijuana products.
We urge the Senate Banking Committee to
reject the SAFE Banking Act and other leg-
islation that would give these cartels more
cover and more access to the U.S. financial
system.
Sincerely,
Mr. R. Gil Kerlikowske, Former Direc-
tor, May 7, 2009 to March 6, 2014, Office
of National Drug Control Policy; Mr.
John P. Walters, Former Director, De-
cember 7, 2001 to January 20, 2009, Of-
fice of National Drug Control Policy;
General Barry R. McCaffrey, USA
(Ret.), Former Director, February 29,
1996 to January 20, 2001, Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; Mr. Lee P.
Brown, Former Director, July 19, 1993
to January 1996, Office of National
Drug Control Policy; Mr. Robert Mar-
tinez, Former Director, March 28, 1991
to January 20, 1993, Office of National
Drug Control Policy; Mr. William J.
Bennett, Former Director, March 13,
1989 to December 13, 1990, Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; Ms.
Michele M. Leonhart, Former Adminis-
trator, November 10, 2007 to May 14,
2015, Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion; Ms. Karen P. Tandy, Former Ad-
ministrator, July 31, 2003 to November
9, 2007, Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion; Mr. John C. Lawn, Former Ad-
ministrator, July 26, 1985 and March 23,
1990, Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion; Mr. Peter B. Bensinger, Former
Administrator, February 23, 1976 to
July 10, 1981, Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, drug
cartels are a significant problem in
cannabis-legal States like California,
Washington, and Colorado. As reported
in a May article by NBC News, the car-
tels have found that it is easier to grow
and process marijuana in legal States
like Colorado and ship it throughout
the United States than it is to bring it
from Mexico or Cuba.
I include in the RECORD a copy of this
article, as well.
[From nbcnews.com, May 29, 2018]
FOREIGN CARTELS EMBRACE HOME-GROWN
MARIJUANA IN POT-LEGAL STATES
FOREIGN GANGS ARE FINDING THAT BLACK-MAR-
KET MARIJUANA IS PROFITABLE EVEN IN
STATES THAT HAVE LEGALIZED CANNABIS
(By Dennis Romero, Gabe Gutierrez, Andrew
Blankstein and Robert Powell)
LOS ANGELES.—Attorney General Jeff Ses-
sions called it ‘‘one of the largest residential
forfeiture actions in American History.’’
In early April, local and federal authorities
descended upon 74 marijuana grow houses in
the Sacramento area they say were under-
written by Chinese organized crime. They
filed court paperwork to seize the properties,
worth millions of dollars.
Federal officials allege that legal rec-
reational marijuana states like California,
Colorado and Washington, where enforce-
ment of growing regulations is hit-or-miss,
have been providing cover for transnational
criminal organizations willing to invest big
money to buy or rent property to achieve
even bigger returns.
Chinese, Cuban and Mexican drug rings
have purchased or rented hundreds of homes
and use human trafficking to bring inexperi-
enced growers to the United States to tend
them, federal and local officials say.
The suspects are targeting states that have
already legalized marijuana ‘‘in an attempt
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.028 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7967
September 25, 2019
to shroud their operations in our legal envi-
ronment here and then take the marijuana
outside of the state,’’ said Mike Hartman,
executive director of the Colorado Depart-
ment of Revenue, which regulates and li-
censes the cannabis industry. Authorities
say they’ve seen an increase in these ‘‘home
grows’’ since the launch of recreational pot
sales in Colorado.
While California and Washington have
mainly seen organized criminals from China
buying homes and converting them into
grow houses, Colorado has largely been grap-
pling with Cuban and Mexican-led cartels,
said Sheriff Bill Elder of the El Paso County
Sheriff’s Office in Colorado.
‘‘They have found that it’s easier to grow
and process marijuana in Colorado, ship it
throughout the United States, than it is to
bring it from Mexico or Cuba,’’ Elder said.
In El Paso County, NBC News witnessed
firsthand the damage a commercial-scale
cannabis grow can do to a home otherwise
built for an average American family. Grow-
ers pose as legitimate renters, and by the
time authorities disrupt their operation,
homes have been gutted and trashed.
‘‘We’ve fallen through floors,’’ U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency Special Agent Randy
Ladd said. ‘‘The electrical damage, they
draw so much current that you’ll see, in
some places, the wires are fused inside of the
electrical box. And—a lot of people—they
don’t wanna pay the high electric bills. So
what they do is they take jackhammers and
pickaxes and they cut through the founda-
tion of the house, so that they could steal
the power.’’
One of the biggest busts so far came last
June, when the Colorado attorney general’s
office announced that ‘‘a massive illegal
interstate marijuana distribution and cul-
tivation network stretching from Colorado
to Texas’’ had been dismantled. It was alleg-
edly Chinese-connected, Ladd said.
Authorities said the network was respon-
sible for securities fraud, millions of dollars
of laundered cash, 2,600 ‘‘illegally cul-
tivated’’ marijuana plants and 4,000 pounds
of harvested cannabis, according to the Colo-
rado attorney general’s statement.
The operation took place in 18 warehouses
and storage units and 33 homes, mostly in
the Denver area, authorities said. ‘‘These
seizures are believed to only scratch the sur-
face,’’ the office said.
Ladd alleged that some Chinese crews
cover immigrants’ costs of traveling to
America in exchange for work in the grow
houses. ‘‘It’s like indentured servitude,’’ he
said. ‘‘It is a form of human trafficking.’’
The workers often fly from China to Bel-
gium, and from Belgium to Mexico, before
making asylum claims at the border and
then disappearing by the time they’re sched-
uled to tell their stories in court, Ladd said.
Often when grow houses are raided, immigra-
tion fugitives are discovered, he said.
The grow homes are usually purchased by
shell property management companies, Ladd
said. ‘‘These growers can hide in plain
sight,’’ he said.
The Sacramento-area raids, which also
struck Calaveras, Placer, San Joaquin, El
Dorado, Yuba and Amador counties, shed
some light on how many of the foreign rings
operate.
Northern California-based DEA Special
Agent Casey Rettig said suspects send cash
to the United States in $9,999 increments,
just below the mandated reporting threshold,
and receive funds from China that fly under
that nation’s $50,000 foreign spending limit.
They then purchase homes with the help of
cash lenders instead of traditional mortgage
firms.
Last fall, a scenario fitting that pattern
unfolded in Grays Harbor County, Wash-
ington, southwest of Seattle, as a drug task
force busted an alleged cultivation ring fund-
ed by organized crime in China.
More than 40 suspects were arrested and
$80 million worth of cannabis was seized, the
Grays Harbor County Sheriff’s Office said.
‘‘The majority of these homes were pur-
chased with cash, and information was devel-
oped that these purchases were conducted by
Chinese nationals involved in organized
crime,’’ according to a statement from the
Sheriff’s Office.
And just this month, search warrants were
served at 19 locations in the Puget Sound
area of Washington state, a federal official
who did not want her name used said. The
ring was allegedly run by three Chinese na-
tionals who produced thousands of pounds of
cannabis destined for greater New York, the
U.S. attorney’s office in Seattle alleges.
The suspects, who face drug conspiracy
charges, purchased homes with the help of
multiple wire transfers from China that in-
cluded dollar figures—$2,000 to $5,900—they
believed would fly under the radar, according
to a federal complaint.
Ultimately it was the houses’ exorbitant
electricity use—up to 38,477 kilowatt hours
in one day versus the American average of
just 30—that made them targets of a federal
investigation, according to the filing.
Even a single grow house can contain a
large marijuana operation. In April, police in
Pomona, California, an exurb in Los Angeles
County, announced they discovered a 23-
room grow house allegedly run by Chinese
nationals. Fifty-five-hundred marijuana
products, including 2,900 plants and nearly 21
pounds of cannabis, were seized, police said.
‘‘The grow operation used advanced sys-
tems of lighting, air conditioning, fans, ex-
haust blowers and air-filtering systems to
control the climate inside the buildings and
the odor of marijuana,’’ according to a Po-
mona police statement.
Pomona police spokeswoman Aly Mejia
said a gun and $6,900 in cash were also found.
The DEA’s Rettig, speaking from her base
in San Francisco, said the Chinese oper-
ations are ‘‘illegal under state law.’’ In Cali-
fornia, marijuana growers, producers and re-
tailers need state and local licenses. Cities
can opt out and ban such businesses alto-
gether.
Rettig said even with the Golden State’s
sky-high housing market—the median price
of a home is $535,100, according listings site
Zillow—overseas criminals know that ‘‘mari-
juana can fetch three times as much out of
state.’’
‘‘There’s a great profit motive in it,’’ the
DEA’s Ladd said. ‘‘In Colorado, marijuana le-
galization has magnified the black market.
The standard price per pound here is $2,000,
but they can get $3,500 to $4,500 by shipping
it back East. The profits are great there.’’
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, beyond
the regulatory issues, Congress has yet
to examine these potential societal
harms and implications for human
health.
In a January article regarding re-
search on the health effects of mari-
juana, author Malcolm Gladwell wrote:
‘‘Before any drug gets permitted to go
on the market, basic questions have to
be answered about its safety and effi-
cacy. We don’t know relatively basic
questions about marijuana.’’
I include this piece from The New
Yorker in the RECORD.
[From the New Yorker, jAN. 7, 2019]
IS MARIJUANA AS SAFE AS WE THINK?(BY
MALCOLM GLADWELL)
A few years ago, the National Academy of
Medicine convened a panel of sixteen leading
medical experts to analyze the scientific lit-
erature on cannabis. The report they pre-
pared, which came out in January of 2017,
runs to four hundred and sixty-eight pages.
It contains no bombshells or surprises, which
perhaps explains why it went largely unno-
ticed. It simply stated, over and over again,
that a drug North Americans have become
enthusiastic about remains a mystery.
For example, smoking pot is widely sup-
posed to diminish the nausea associated with
chemotherapy. But, the panel pointed out,
‘‘there are no good-quality randomized trials
investigating this option.’’We have evidence
for marijuana as a treatment for pain, but
‘‘very little is known about the efficacy,
dose, routes of administration, or side effects
of commonly used and commercially avail-
able cannabis products in the United
States.’’ The caveats continue. Is it good for
epilepsy? ‘‘Insufficient evidence.’’Tourette’s
syndrome? Limited evidence. A.L.S., Hun-
tington’s, and Parkinson’s? Insufficient evi-
dence. Irritable-bowel syndrome? Insuffi-
cient evidence. Dementia and glaucoma?
Probably not. Anxiety? Maybe. Depression?
Probably not.
Then come Chapters 5 through 13, the
heart of the report, which concern mari-
juana’s potential risks. The haze of uncer-
tainty continues. Does the use of cannabis
increase the likelihood of fatal car acci-
dents? Yes. By how much? Unclear. Does it
affect motivation and cognition? Hard to
say, but probably. Does it affect employment
prospects? Probably. Will it impair academic
achievement? Limited evidence. This goes on
for pages.
We need proper studies, the panel con-
cluded, on the health effects of cannabis on
children and teen-agers and pregnant women
and breast-feeding mothers and ‘‘older popu-
lations’’ and ‘‘heavy cannabis users’’; in
other words, on everyone except the college
student who smokes a joint once a month.
The panel also called for investigation into
‘‘the pharmacokinetic and
pharmacodynamic properties of cannabis,
modes of delivery, different concentrations,
in various populations, including the dose-re-
sponse relationships of cannabis and THC or
other cannabinoids.’’
Figuring out the ‘‘dose-response relation-
ship’’ of a new compound is something a
pharmaceutical company does from the start
of trials in human subjects, as it prepares a
new drug application for the E.D.A. Too lit-
tle of a powerful drug means that it won’t
work. Too much means that it might do
more harm than good. The amount of active
ingredient in a pill and the metabolic path
that the ingredient takes after it enters your
body—these are things that drugmakers will
have painstakingly mapped out before the
product comes on the market, with a trac-
tor-trailer full of supporting documentation.
With marijuana, apparently, we’re still
waiting for this information. It’s hard to
study a substance that until very recently
has been almost universally illegal. And the
few studies we do have were done mostly in
the nineteen-eighties and nineties, when can-
nabis was not nearly as potent as it is now.
Because of recent developments in plant
breeding and growing techniques, the typical
concentration ofTHC, the psychoactive in-
gredient in marijuana, has gone from the low
single digits to more than twenty per cent—
from a swig of near-beer to a tequila shot.
Are users smoking less, to compensate for
the drug’s new potency? Or simply getting
more stoned, more quickly? Is high-potency
cannabis more of a problem for younger
users or for older ones? For some drugs, the
dose-response curve is linear: twice the dose
creates twice the effect. For other drugs, it’s
nonlinear: twice the dose can increase the ef-
fect tenfold, or hardly at all. Which is true
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.031 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7968 September 25, 2019
for cannabis? It also matters, of course, how
cannabis is consumed. It can be smoked,
vaped, eaten, or applied to the skin. How are
absorption patterns affected?
Last May, not long before Canada legalized
the recreational use of marijuana, Beau Kil-
mer, a drug-policy expert with the RAND
Corporation, testified before the Canadian
Parliament. He warned that the fastest-
growing segment of the legal market in
Washington State was extracts for inhala-
tion, and that the mean THC concentration
for those products was more than sixty-five
per cent. ‘‘We know little about the health
consequences-risks and benefits-of many of
the cannabis products likely to be sold in
nonmedical markets,’’ he said. Nor did we
know how higher-potency products would af-
fect THC consumption.
When it comes to cannabis, the best-case
scenario is that we will muddle through,
learning more about its true effects as we go
along and adapting as needed-the way, say,
the once extraordinarily lethal innovation of
the automobile has been gradually tamed in
the course of its history. For those curious
about the worst-case scenario, Alex Berenson
has written a short manifesto, ‘‘Tell Your
Children: The Truth About Marijuana, Men-
tal Illness, and Violence.’’
Berenson begins his book with an account
of a conversation he had with his wife, a psy-
chiatrist who specializes in treating men-
tally ill criminals. They were discussing one
of the many grim cases that cross her desk—
‘‘the usual horror story, somebody who’d cut
up his grandmother or set fire to his apart-
ment.’’ Then his wife said something like
‘‘Of course, he was high, been smoking pot
his whole life.’’
Of course? I said.
Yeah, they all smoke.
Well . . . other things too, right?
Berenson used to be an investigative re-
porter for the Times, where he covered,
among other things, health care and the
pharmaceutical industry. Then he left the
paper to write a popular series of thrillers.
At the time of his conversation with his
wife, he had the typical layman’s view of
cannabis, which is that it is largely benign.
His wife’s remark alarmed him, and he set
out to educate himself. Berenson is con-
strained by the same problem the National
Academy of Medicine faced—that, when it
comes to marijuana, we really don’t know
very much. But he has a reporter’s tenacity,
a novelist’s imagination, and an outsider’s
knack for asking intemperate questions. The
result is disturbing.
The first of Berenson’s questions concerns
what has long been the most worrisome
point about cannabis: its association with
mental illness. Many people with serious
psychiatric illness smoke lots of pot. The
marijuana lobby typically responds to this
fact by saying that pot-smoking is a re-
sponse to mental illness, not the cause of
it—that people with psychiatric issues use
marijuana to self-medicate. That is only
partly true. In some cases, heavy cannabis
use does seem to cause mental illness. As the
National Academy panel declared, in one of
its few unequivocal conclusions, ‘‘Cannabis
use is likely to increase the risk of devel-
oping schizophrenia and other psychoses; the
higher the use, the greater the risk.’’
Berenson thinks that we are far too san-
guine about this link. He wonders how large
the risk is, and what might be behind it. In
one of the most fascinating sections of ‘‘Tell
Your Children,’’ he sits down with Erik
Messamore, a psychiatrist who specializes in
neuropharmacology and in the treatment of
schizophrenia. Messamore reports that, fol-
lowing the recent rise in marijuana use in
the U.S. (it has almost doubled in the past
two decades, not necessarily as the result of
legal reforms), he has begun to see a new
kind of patient: older, and not from the
marginalized communities that his patients
usually come from. These are otherwise sta-
ble middle-class professionals. Berenson
writes, ‘‘A surprising number of them
seemed to have used only cannabis and no
other drugs before their breaks. The disease
they’d developed looked like schizophrenia,
but it had developed later-and their prog-
nosis seemed to be worse. Their delusions
and paranoia hardly responded to
antipsychotics.’’
Messamore theorizes that THC may inter-
fere with the brain’s anti-inflammatory
mechanisms, resulting in damage to nerve
cells and blood vessels. Is this the reason,
Berenson wonders, for the rising incidence of
schizophrenia in the developed world, where
cannabis use has also increased? In the
northern parts of Finland, incidence of the
disease has nearly doubled since 1993. In Den-
mark, cases have risen twenty-five per cent
since 2000. In the United States, hospital
emergency rooms have seen a fifty per-cent
increase in schizophrenia admissions since
2006. If you include cases where schizo-
phrenia was a secondary diagnosis, annual
admissions in the past decade have increased
from 1.26 million to 2.1 million.
Berenson’s second question derives from
the first. The delusions and paranoia that
often accompany psychoses can sometimes
trigger violent behavior. If cannabis is impli-
cated in a rise in psychoses, should we expect
the increased use of marijuana to be accom-
panied by a rise in violent crime, as
Berenson’s wife suggested? Once again, there
is no definitive answer, so Berenson has col-
lected bits and pieces of evidence. For exam-
ple, in a 2013 paper in the Journal of Inter-
personal Violence, researchers looked at the
results of a survey of more than twelve thou-
sand American high-school students. The au-
thors assumed that alcohol use among stu-
dents would be a predictor of violent behav-
ior, and that marijuana use would predict
the opposite. In fact, those who used only
marijuana were three times more likely to
be physically aggressive than abstainers
were; those who used only alcohol were 2.7
times more likely to be aggressive.
Observational studies like these don’t es-
tablish causation. But they invite the sort of
research that could.
Berenson looks, too, at the early results
from the state of Washington, which, in 2014,
became the first U.S. jurisdiction to legalize
recreational marijuana. Between 2013 and
2017, the state’s aggravated-assault rate rose
seventeen per cent, which was nearly twice
the increase seen nationwide, and the mur-
der rate rose forty-four per cent, which was
more than twice the increase nationwide. We
don’t know that an increase in cannabis use
was responsible for that surge in violence.
Berenson, though, finds it strange that, at a
time when Washington may have exposed its
population to higher levels of what is widely
assumed to be a calming substance, its citi-
zens began turning on one another with in-
creased aggression.
His third question is whether cannabis
serves as a gateway drug. There are two pos-
sibilities. The first is that marijuana acti-
vates certain behavioral and neurological
pathways that ease the onset of more serious
addictions. The second possibility is that
marijuana offers a safer alternative to other
drugs: that if you start smoking pot to deal
with chronic pain you never graduate to
opioids.
Which is it? This is a very hard question to
answer. We’re only a decade or so into the
widespread recreational use of high-potency
marijuana. Maybe cannabis opens the door
to other drugs, but only after prolonged use.
Or maybe the low-potency marijuana of
years past wasn’t a gateway, but today’s
high-potency marijuana is. Methodologi-
cally, Berenson points out, the issue is com-
plicated by the fact that the first wave of
marijuana legalization took place on the
West Coast, while the first serious wave of
opioid addiction took place in the middle of
the country. So, if all you do is eyeball the
numbers, it looks as if opioid overdoses are
lowest in cannabis states and highest in non-
cannabis states.
Not surprisingly, the data we have are
messy. Berenson, in his role as devil’s advo-
cate, emphasizes the research that sees can-
nabis as opening the door to opioid use. For
example, two studies of identical twins—in
the Netherlands and in Australia—show that,
in cases where one twin used cannabis before
the age of seventeen and the other didn’t,
the cannabis user was several times more
likely to develop an addiction to opioids.
Berenson also enlists a statistician at N.Y.U.
to help him sort through state-level overdose
data, and what he finds is not encouraging:
‘‘States where more people used cannabis
tended to have more overdoses.’’
The National Academy panel is more judi-
cious. Its conclusion is that we simply don’t
know enough, because there haven’t been
any ‘‘systematic’’ studies. But the panel’s
uncertainty is scarcely more reassuring than
Berenson’s alarmism. Seventy-two thousand
Americans died in 2017 of drug overdoses.
Should you embark on a procannabis crusade
without knowing whether it will add to or
subtract from that number?
Drug policy is always clearest at the
fringes. Illegal opioids are at one end. They
are dangerous. Manufacturers and distribu-
tors belong in prison, and users belong in
drug-treatment programs. The cannabis in-
dustry would have us believe that its prod-
uct, like coffee, belongs at the other end of
the continuum. ‘‘Flow Kana partners with
independent multi-generational farmers who
cultivate under full sun, sustainably, and in
small batches,’’ the promotional literature
for one California cannabis brand reads.
‘‘Using only organic methods, these stewards
of the land have spent their lives balancing
a unique and harmonious relationship be-
tween the farm, the genetics and the
terroir.’’ But cannabis is not coffee. It’s
somewhere in the middle. The experience of
most users is relatively benign and predict-
able; the experience of a few, at the margins,
is not. Products or behaviors that have that
kind of muddled risk profile are confusing,
because it is very difficult for those in the
benign middle to appreciate the experiences
of those at the statistical tails. Low-fre-
quency risks also take longer and are far
harder to quantify, and the lesson of ‘‘Tell
Your Children’’ and the National Academy
report is that we aren’t yet in a position to
do so. For the moment, cannabis probably
belongs in the category of substances that
society permits but simultaneously discour-
ages. Cigarettes are heavily taxed, and
smoking is prohibited in most workplaces
and public spaces. Alcohol can’t be sold with-
out a license and is kept out of the hands of
children. Prescription drugs have rules about
dosages, labels that describe their risks, and
policies that govern their availability. The
advice that seasoned potheads sometimes
give new users—‘‘start low and go slow’’—is
probably good advice for society as a whole,
at least until we better understand what we
are dealing with.
Late last year, the commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration, Scott Gott-
lieb, announced a federal crackdown on e-
cigarettes. He had seen the data on soaring
use among teen-agers, and, he said, ‘‘it
shocked my conscience.’’ He announced that
the F.D.A. would ban many kinds of flavored
e-cigarettes, which are especially popular
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.035 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7969
September 25, 2019
with teens, and would restrict the retail out-
lets where e-cigarettes were available.
In the dozen years since e-cigarettes were
introduced into the marketplace, they have
attracted an enormous amount of attention.
There are scores of studies and papers on the
subject in the medical and legal literature,
grappling with the questions raised by the
new technology. Vaping is clearly popular
among kids. Is it a gateway to traditional
tobacco use? Some public-health experts
worry that we’re grooming a younger gen-
eration for a lifetime of dangerous addiction.
Yet other people see e-cigarettes as a much
safer alternative for adult smokers looking
to satisfy their nicotine addiction. That’s
the British perspective. Last year, a Par-
liamentary committee recommended cutting
taxes on e-cigarettes and allowing vaping in
areas where it had previously been banned.
Since e-cigarettes are as much as ninety-five
per cent less harmful than regular ciga-
rettes, the committee argued, why not pro-
mote them? Gottlieb said that he was split-
ting the difference between the two posi-
tions—giving adults ‘‘opportunities to tran-
sition to non-combustible products,’’ while
upholding the F.D.A.’s ‘‘solemn mandate to
make nicotine products less accessible and
less appealing to children.’’ He was imme-
diately criticized.‘‘Somehow, we have com-
pletely lost all sense of public-health per-
spective,’’ Michael Siegel, a public-health re-
searcher at Boston University, wrote after
the F.D.A. announcement:
Every argument that the F.D.A. is making
in justifying a ban on the sale of electronic
cigarettes in convenience stores and gas sta-
tions applies even more strongly for real to-
bacco cigarettes: you know, the ones that
kill hundreds of thousands of Americans
each year. Something is terribly wrong with
our sense of perspective when we take the e-
cigarettes off the shelf but allow the old-
fashioned ones to remain.
Among members of the public-health com-
munity, it is impossible to spend five min-
utes on the e-cigarette question without get-
ting into an argument. And this is nicotine
they are arguing about, a drug that has been
exhaustively studied by generations of sci-
entists. We don’t worry that e-cigarettes in-
crease the number of fatal car accidents, di-
minish motivation and cognition, or impair
academic achievement. The drugs through
the gateway that we worry about with e-
cigarettes are Marlboros, not opioids. There
are no enormous scientific question marks
over nicotine’s dosing and bio-availability.
Yet we still proceed cautiously and carefully
with nicotine, because it is a powerful drug,
and when powerful drugs are consumed by
lots of people in new and untested ways we
have an obligation to try to figure out what
will happen.
A week after Gottlieb announced his
crackdown on e-cigarettes, on the ground
that they are too enticing to children, Siegel
visited the first recreational-marijuana fa-
cility in Massachusetts. Here is what he
found on the menu, each offering laced with
large amounts of a drug, THC, that no one
knows much about:
Strawberry-flavored chewy bites
Large, citrus gummy bears
Delectable Belgian dark chocolate bars
Assorted fruit-flavored chews
Assorted fruit-flavored cubes
Raspberry flavored confection
Raspberry flavored lozenges
Chewy, cocoa caramel bite-sized treats
Raspberry & watermelon flavored lozenges
Chocolate-chip brownies. He concludes,
‘‘This is public health in 2018?’’
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the gentleman from Colorado’s
willingness to work with several of my
colleagues on this side of the aisle. I
want to commend him and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS), once
again, for their commitment to this ef-
fort.
This version of the legislation before
us right now is dramatically improved
and includes a number of Republican
priorities, such as language on Oper-
ation Choke Point, and a solution that
will help industrial hemp farmers
across the country, but most especially
in Kentucky.
Yet, Mr. Speaker, there are many
questions left to be answered. We do
not fully understand the sweeping im-
plications of this legislation. We do not
yet know what the resulting regu-
latory regime will look like, nor do we
have any assurance that it will not ex-
pose the current financial system to il-
licit activity. In particular, as it is cur-
rently drafted, H.R. 1595 offers insuffi-
cient safeguards against drug cartels
accessing the banking system.
What this legislation does is provide
a half answer to a much larger problem
than just banking. We owe it to our
constituents and to the public to have
a serious debate on the underlying
issue, and that is the issue of whether
or not cannabis should be considered a
schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act. I know Mr.
PERLMUTTER and I share that same sen-
timent that we should have that larger
debate.
In the meantime, Congress is work-
ing in a bipartisan way to come up
with at least a measure of a solution,
but I am hopeful that we can get the
medical research necessary and the
FDA processes necessary for us to have
that larger debate as well. I would wel-
come that debate, as I know the Amer-
ican people would as well.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I say thank you to my
friend for the kind words about work-
ing across the aisle. This has been a
partnership in many respects, lots of
interchange.
I would also say to my friend, the Fi-
nancial Services Committee has cer-
tain jurisdiction. We couldn’t take up
all of the different things that the gen-
tleman has suggested, Mr. Speaker, but
we were able to take up this marijuana
bill. It is the first time this Congress
has done it, certainly in my terms
here, and the reason we did that was
because the chairwoman was a driving
force to get this matter in front of the
Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS), chairwoman of the full com-
mittee.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking
Act, sponsored by Representatives ED
PERLMUTTER, DENNY HECK, STEVE STIV-
ERS, and WARREN DAVIDSON. Let me say
to all of these individuals who have
worked so long and so hard on this leg-
islation, I am proud of the work that
they have done; I am proud of the co-
operation that they have dem-
onstrated; and I am proud to be on this
floor with them today.
This bipartisan bill addresses a press-
ing public safety issue for businesses
that legally grow, market, or sell can-
nabis in States that have legalized its
use and that are currently forced to op-
erate with cash only. Forty-seven
States, three territories, and D.C. have
legalized some form of marijuana, and
it is time for Congress to act.
Cannabis-related businesses are
locked out of the banking system and
cannot maintain checking accounts,
process payroll obligations, or pay
taxes. The Financial Services Com-
mittee heard testimony in February
that these cash-only businesses and
their employees have become targets
for violent criminals.
The SAFE Banking Act addresses
this serious problem by providing a
safe harbor to financial institutions
that choose to serve State-regulated
cannabis businesses. The bill would
also help others, like plumbers or elec-
tricians who provide services to can-
nabis businesses, who face similar chal-
lenges with access to banking services.
With the passage of this bill, all of
these businesses will gain access to tra-
ditional financial services that most
businesses take for granted.
H.R. 1595 also promotes diversity and
inclusion, with several reporting provi-
sions to help Congress monitor that
minority-owned and women-owned can-
nabis businesses get access to credit
they need and have a fair chance to
compete.
As I have said before and I say here
on the floor today, this bill is but one
important piece of what should be a
comprehensive series of cannabis re-
form bills.
I have long fought for criminal jus-
tice reform and deeply understand the
need to fully address the historical ra-
cial and social inequities related to the
criminalization of marijuana.
I support legislation like Representa-
tives LEE’s Marijuana Justice Act and
Chairman NADLER’s MORE Act that
would de-schedule marijuana federally
and provide assistance, such as job
training and reentry services, for those
who have been harmed by the war on
drugs.
Let me be clear. It is long overdue for
Congress to address the unjust crim-
inalization of marijuana use. So I ea-
gerly look forward to the Judiciary
Committee sending the legislation to
the House floor soon.
I thank Representatives PERLMUTTER
and HECK for their longstanding leader-
ship on this issue for the past 6 years.
I urge all Members to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
the bill and, when we get the legisla-
tion from the Judiciary Committee, to
do all of those things that I have spo-
ken about here, what is considered jus-
tice for those who have been harmed by
some of the laws that cause people to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.035 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7970 September 25, 2019
be incarcerated. We eagerly look for-
ward to that legislation. We urge the
Judiciary Committee to send it to the
floor so that we can support it.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA), the ranking
member of the Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets
Subcommittee.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate the ranking member allowing
me this time.
Let’s set aside the moral and societal
aspects of cannabis and the debate and
acknowledge that we have a problem.
We do have a problem. We have States
that have decided to violate Federal
law; and within those States, we have
banking institutions and businesses
that are operating within the confines
of the State, however, that are still in
violation of the Federal law.
Now, here is what we do agree on: We
need to have a goal of predictability
for these financial institutions and for
these businesses. However, I don’t be-
lieve that this bill will ultimately do
that because the Federal Government
still views this as a schedule I sub-
stance.
I had an amendment in committee,
as the author of the bill well knows,
that would have forced alignment with
all of the various regulators. I think at
the time, my recollection is, we count-
ed 13 different Federal regulators that
touch these institutions in one way or
another.
The answer to that was, well, in the
bill, we have a requirement that they
are going to agree with each other
within 180 days.
Well, this is not going to come as a
surprise to those watching on C–SPAN.
We can’t collectively tie our shoes here
in Washington in 180 days, much less
get through something that com-
plicated.
My amendment said that this would
go into effect only when and if all of
the regulators could agree to the lan-
guage of how to deal with it. I still
think that is the right way to go.
b 1645
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Michigan an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. HUIZENGA. There is a big dif-
ference we know between industrial
hemp and recreational cannabis. The
only way for us to really get at this
issue and provide predictability to the
companies, to the financial institu-
tions, and to our citizens is to have the
full debate about whether marijuana
and cannabis should be a schedule I
substance or not. It is time for this full
debate to happen, and I look forward to
it.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, to
my friend from Michigan, I guess I
have more confidence in the Federal
employees that they can get something
done in the next 180 days.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from Washington (Mr.
HECK) who has been working on this
subject with me for the last 6 years.
Mr. HECK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from Colorado for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1595, the SAFE Banking Act.
Before I do that, I want to acknowl-
edge the leadership of this man for a
very long period of time. The only rea-
son we are standing here tonight about
to vote on this is because of the tire-
less and brilliant leadership by the gen-
tleman from Colorado. I thank him for
it. It has been an incredible journey
over a long period of time. I thank the
chair of the committee as well for her
strong and clear leadership on this.
Lastly, I would like to thank the two
gentlemen from Ohio, Mr. STIVERS and
Mr. DAVIDSON, who are not just allies,
they are friends and have done excel-
lent work in this regard.
This is a public safety bill pure and
simple. If you want your neighborhoods
to be safer, Mr. Speaker, vote ‘‘yes.’’ If
you want your communities to be
safer, vote ‘‘yes.’’ If you want the em-
ployees at the dispensaries throughout
the 47 States who have some form of le-
galized cannabis, vote ‘‘yes.’’
This is a public safety bill, and it is
not hypothetical. It is real. Exhibit A,
Travis Mason. June 18 of 2016, Travis
Mason got up and went to work. He was
full of optimism about life. He was a
marine veteran. He served this country
honorably. He was looking forward to
his future, because he just had been in-
formed that he was approved to take
the Denver Police Department test. He
was confident he would pass it. He had
been studying for it.
So he kissed his lovely wife,
Samantha, good-bye. They were both
marine veterans, both just 24 with
three small children. He kissed Aidyn
and Daisy—they were twins—and little
baby Julian good-bye and went to work
where he served as a security guard in
a dispensary in suburban Denver.
Because that was an all-cash settle-
ment, because the Federal law did not
allow for that business to be banked, to
be within the guardrails of the finan-
cial system, an evil person walked in
that night and shot Travis dead and
left Samantha a 24-year-old widow with
three small children. This was so un-
necessary. If we pass this legislation
that does not have to happen. This is
not hypothetical.
You can be agnostic on the under-
lying policy of whether or not cannabis
should be legal for either adult rec-
reational use or to treat seizures for ju-
venile epileptics, but you cannot be ag-
nostic on the need to improve safety in
this area.
If you believe that the first two pro-
visions, especially, of the Cole memo-
randum, which sets forth: Keep mari-
juana out of the hands of children and
keep cash out of the hands of the car-
tels, if you support that, you must vote
‘‘yes’’ on this bill so that we can track
this and so that we can monitor this.
If we do nothing, bad things will
again happen. If we pass this law, if we
pass the SAFE Banking Act, the public
safety measure, then we can avoid an-
other widow, Samantha, and another
murdered clerk at a dispensary. We can
make our neighborhood safer, and we
can make our communities safer.
Please join us in voting ‘‘yes’’ on H.R.
1595.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, how
much time remains?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 9 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Colorado has 8 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from German-
town, Tennessee (Mr. KUSTOFF).
Mr. KUSTOFFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I want to thank the ranking
member for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposi-
tion to H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking
Act. I do want to say, I appreciate the
debate that we have had in our Finan-
cial Services Committee, but I think
that we need to have the same debate
in the Judiciary Committee.
We all know that over the last sev-
eral years, States across the country
have passed various laws to legalize
marijuana for both recreational and
medical purposes. That flawed ap-
proach has created a patchwork of
State laws and regulations that have
allowed for the spread of marijuana use
across the U.S.
Proponents of this bill claim that it
will provide consistent guidelines for
marijuana companies to do business
across our national finance system.
However, my concern is that the legal-
ization will only provide safe harbor
while legitimizing and encouraging
more widespread use of this currently
illegal drug.
The reality today is that we are vot-
ing to nationally legalize marijuana
throughout our banking system rather
than taking the correct approach,
which I believe is to take a vote to le-
galize what is currently an illegal sub-
stance.
I would ask my colleagues who sup-
port this bill to think long and hard
about what you are actually voting on
today, because the consequences will
be far-reaching beyond the intent of
this bill.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. LEE), who is a co-
chair of the Congressional Cannabis
Caucus and a sponsor of the Marijuana
Justice Act which we hope to see
marked up and brought to the floor.
Ms. LEE of California. First of all,
Madam Speaker, let me thank Con-
gressman PERLMUTTER for yielding and
also for his tireless leadership. This has
taken a heck of a long time. The gen-
tleman has stayed with it. He has been
persistent, and I stand here and salute
his efforts.
I also want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS for moving this bill out of the
Financial Services Committee and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.059 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7971
September 25, 2019
her support for our Marijuana Justice
Act. I want to thank Congressman
HECK for his clarity as to why this bill
is necessary and for his support. And
then, of course, my partner and friend,
who has been on this issue so many
years as co-chair of the bipartisan Con-
gressional Cannabis Caucus in which I
also serve as co-chair, Congressman
EARL BLUMENAUER. I salute and thank
everyone for getting us to this point.
The SAFE Banking Act would explic-
itly permit banks and other financial
institutions to work directly with
State legal cannabis businesses—legal
cannabis businesses—instead of relying
on cash transactions. This bill is not
only timely but extremely necessary.
Right now the cannabis industry needs
access to safe and effective banking
immediately.
Now, let me be clear. Federal law se-
verely limits access to loans and cap-
ital for the cannabis business, espe-
cially, mind you, for those who have
cannabis-related arrests and convic-
tions on their record. That means that
less than one-fifth of the cannabis in-
dustry is owned or operated by people
of color, even though African Ameri-
cans have been shown to use cannabis
at the same rate as White Americans,
yet are incarcerated at about 80 per-
cent more in terms of incarceration
rates. This is just plain wrong. So this
bill is a great first start to addressing
all of these issues.
I am telling you, Madam Speaker,
communities of color should equally
benefit from all of the laws that have
been passed at the State level. They
should have the opportunity to gen-
erate generational wealth for their
families, too.
That is why, in addition to this bill,
the House must bring forward legisla-
tion like my Marijuana Justice Act
and the MORE Act, which addresses
criminal justice reform, restorative
justice, and fully reinvests in commu-
nities of color impacted by the failed
and racist war on drugs.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank Mr.
PERLMUTTER, again, for his leadership
and for working with us to get this to
the floor.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Columbus, Ohio (Mr. STIVERS), who is
the ranking member of the National
Security, International Development
and Monetary Policy Subcommittee of
the Financial Services Committee. He
is a great advocate for the bill.
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I
would like to thank the ranking mem-
ber for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking Act. The
bill provides a limited safe harbor for
banks and credit unions to open and
maintain accounts for marijuana-re-
lated businesses and other nonmari-
juana-related businesses.
I personally oppose recreational
marijuana. But for me, this bill has
nothing to do with the larger debate
about marijuana and whether it is a
good or bad thing. Instead, I am nar-
rowly focused on the public safety as-
pects of this bill. The inconsistencies
between State and Federal law have
created a situation where a growing
number of State-regulated businesses
are operating on a cash-only basis. As
a result, they sit on large pools of cash
that make them a magnet for violent
robberies.
The transactions of cash-only busi-
nesses are not subjected to rigorous
anti-money laundering or know your
customer requirements that would be
required for bank account holders. This
makes it difficult for regulators and
law enforcement to trace transactions
or to freeze money.
The SAFE Banking Act will make
our communities safer by getting cash
off the streets and into regulated finan-
cial institutions, so we can root out
fraud and other illegal activity. The
bill also extends the safe harbor to any
proceeds indirectly received from these
businesses such as a hardware store
down the street or the landlord of these
businesses.
Importantly, the SAFE Banking Act
does not change the legal status of
marijuana. Additionally, H.R. 1595 also
includes provisions that would prevent
financial regulators from denying or
discouraging access to the banking sys-
tem for other legal businesses as hap-
pened in 2014 through 2016. This protec-
tion is a major protection for other
legal businesses.
I want to thank Mr. PERLMUTTER and
Mr. HECK for their incredible advocacy
on this. I want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS and Ranking Member
MCHENRY for their honest and hard-
working efforts, even when they dis-
agree. And I want to thank Senator
CORY GARDNER who has championed
this bill in the Senate.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1595.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I include in the RECORD a list of sup-
porters for the SAFE Banking Act
from a broad coalition, including the
National Association of Attorneys Gen-
eral, including 38 State attorneys gen-
eral, 20 State Governors, and 18 State
banking supervisors, the United Food
and Commercial Workers, the Credit
Union National Association, the Inde-
pendent Community Bankers Associa-
tion, the American Bankers Associa-
tion, the Mid-size Bank Coalition of
America, the National Bankers Asso-
ciation, Law Enforcement Action Part-
nership, the Minority Cannabis Busi-
ness Association, the Mayors Coalition
for Marijuana Reform, eight insurance
trade associations, the International
Council of Shopping Centers, the Na-
tional Cannabis Industry Association,
the National Cannabis Roundtable, the
Cannabis Trade Federation, the Cali-
fornia Cannabis Industry, the Florida
Agriculture Commissioner, the Safe
and Responsible Banking Alliance, the
Electronic Transaction Association,
the Real Estate Roundtable, the Na-
tional Association of Realtors, Brinks,
Inc., the National Armored Car Asso-
ciation, the American Financial Serv-
ices Association, and ScottsMiracle-
Gro.
H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking Act, is sup-
ported by a wide range of national organiza-
tions and state officials, including:
National Association of Attorneys General
(NAAG), United Food and Commercial Work-
ers (UFCW), Credit Union National Associa-
tion (CUNA), Independent Community Bank-
ers Association (ICBA), America Bankers As-
sociation (ABA), Mid-size Bank Coalition of
America (MBCA), National Bankers Associa-
tion (NBA), 50 State Banking Associations,
Electronic Transaction Association (ETA),
Third Party Payment Processors Association
(TPPPA), Law Enforcement Action Partner-
ship (LEAP), The Real Estate Roundtable
(RER), National Association of REALTORS,
Safe and Responsible Banking Alliance
(SARBA), American Land Title Association
(ALTA).
American Property Casualty Insurance As-
sociation (APCIA), The Council of Insurance
Agents and Brokers (CIAB), Reinsurance As-
sociation of America (RAA), Independent In-
surance Agents and Brokers of America (Big
‘‘I’’), Wholesale Specialty Insurance Associa-
tion (WSIA), National Association of Profes-
sional Insurance Agents (PIA), National As-
sociation of Mutual Insurance Companies
(NAMIC), Rural County Representatives of
California (RCRC), Brinks, Inc., Inter-
national Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC),
National Association of Professional Em-
ployer Associations (NAPEA), National Can-
nabis Industry Association (NCIA), Minority
Cannabis Business Association (MCBA), Na-
tional Cannabis Roundtable (NCR), Cannabis
Trade Federation (CTF), ScottsMiracle-Gro,
National Armored Car Association (NACA).
Additionally, the Mayors Coalition to Push
for Marijuana Reform, 38 State Attorneys
General, 20 Governors, 18 State Banking Su-
pervisors, and the Florida Agriculture Com-
missioner have endorsed the legislation.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER), who
has been the quarterback of a lot of
this cannabis legislation.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
I appreciate the gentleman’s courtesy,
the leadership, and you have heard
from a number of the champions in this
House fighting for a more rational pol-
icy regarding cannabis.
We are in this fix today because Con-
gress has refused to provide the part-
nership and the leadership that the
States demand. The States aren’t wait-
ing for us. As you have heard, 47 States
have taken steps to legalize some form
of State legal cannabis.
One of the most insidious aspects of
our being out of sync is what we have
seen in terms of access to banking
services. Congressman HECK elaborated
I think very emotionally and effec-
tively about the dangers that this pre-
sents. We have an opportunity to fix
that problem.
This is an $11 billion industry and
growing, and it is growing because the
people and the States have demanded
it. We need to step up and solve one of
the biggest problems, and that is sim-
ply they don’t have access to banking
services. I have worked on this issue
for decades. I have never met a human
being who feels that there is any good
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.062 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7972 September 25, 2019
purpose served by forcing them to pay
their bills with duffle bags full of $20
bills—not one person. It is an invita-
tion to theft, it is an invitation to
money laundering already, it is an in-
vitation to tax evasion, and it stifles
the opportunities of this business.
I strongly urge our colleagues to vote
for this as the next step. This is an im-
portant foundational, but it is not the
last step. We have important legisla-
tion that is keyed up and ready to go.
This approval today will provide mo-
mentum that we need for further re-
form that we all want and will make
America safer and stronger.
b 1700
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. BARR), chair of the Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions of the Committee on Financial
Services.
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 1595, the SAFE Banking
Act, and I thank the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. PERLMUTTER), my friend,
for working with me in a bipartisan
way to include two amendments that
will allow legal hemp farmers and busi-
nesses in my district to access finan-
cial services.
Kentuckians have a deep interest in
the production, cultivation, and sale of
industrial hemp, and we have historic
connections to this, too. Many Ameri-
cans may not know, but my prede-
cessor in the central Kentucky seat in
Congress, Speaker of the House Henry
Clay, was once a hemp farmer. Now,
thanks to the farm bill, the hemp in-
dustry in the Commonwealth is boom-
ing once again.
Much of the resurgence of the indus-
try occurred under the Industrial Hemp
Research Pilot Program, established by
the 2014 farm bill. Since the program’s
enactment in 2014, the number of ap-
proved acres in Kentucky increased
from 922 to over 50,000. In 2018, sales of
hemp products were three-and-a-half
more times than the previous year.
The 2018 farm bill took it a step fur-
ther and fully legalized industrial
hemp, ending 80 years of prohibition of
the plant. Hemp is now completely ex-
empt from the Controlled Substances
Act. Despite these positive steps for-
ward, hemp businesses still have trou-
ble accessing financial services like
bank accounts, loans, and payment
processing.
This bill will provide additional clar-
ity for banks, insurance companies,
and card processors that they can, in
fact, do business with legally operating
hemp businesses. It would also direct
our Federal financial regulators to
issue joint guidance to financial insti-
tutions on how to serve hemp and CBD
businesses without legal risk.
There is amazing potential for hemp
and hemp-derived products. One hemp
farmer in my district has an exclusive
deal with Patagonia to provide hemp
for farming. Toyota, which has the
largest manufacturing facility in my
district, is exploring the use of hemp
for car interiors. Hemp farmers in my
district are cultivating hemp to
produce products ranging from
nutraceuticals, dietary supplements,
pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, apparel,
footwear, fashion, and even industrial
products and construction materials.
But for hemp producers and busi-
nesses to fully scale up and take advan-
tage of the descheduling under the
farm bill, they need access to financial
services.
Again, I thank the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. PERLMUTTER), my friend,
for working with me in a bipartisan
way, and I urge support for H.R. 1595.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
may I inquire how much time each side
has remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE). The gentleman from Colo-
rado has 4 minutes remaining. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 4 min-
utes remaining.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. MEEKS), the chair of the
Subcommittee on Consumer Protec-
tions and Financial Institutions.
Mr. MEEKS. Madam Speaker, there
has been a rapid and dramatic shift in
the legal treatment of cannabis, led by
voters at the local and State levels.
Nearly every American now lives in a
State where cannabis has been decrimi-
nalized to some extent and legal busi-
ness activities permitted to varying de-
grees, including in my home State of
New York. But Federal drug laws and
bank regulations have not evolved to
reflect this new reality. We need clear,
harmonized laws, which the SAFE
Banking Act provides.
Without passage of this bill, the legal
cannabis industry is forced to operate
mostly in cash, depriving law enforce-
ment of important financial data and
creating avoidable security risks for
companies and their employees.
With the passage of this bill, entre-
preneurs, employees, and financial in-
stitutions operating legally within the
bounds of State and local laws will no
longer bear the burden of a punitive
Tax Code, high compliance hurdles, the
lack of all basic financial services, and
significant security risks.
I am proud of the work Mr. PERL-
MUTTER has done on this bill, and I
compliment him.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON), a great member
of the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of the
SAFE Banking Act.
This is a banking bill. It defends civil
liberties with a simple concept: If it is
legal in your State, you should be able
to bank it. No Federal regulator should
be able to block an American’s lawful
access to the financial system.
In Ohio, legal, State-regulated busi-
nesses are being forced into using cash
or intermediaries. This bill will help
get cash off our streets and into the
regulated financial system.
I am also pleased the bill includes
Mr. LUETKEMEYER’s legislation to stop
the closing of accounts on the basis of
political biases or motivations.
For far too long, financial institu-
tions have said: You are not going to
bank those people, are you?
It is time to defend civil liberties and
pass this important bill.
Madam Speaker, I urge bipartisan,
broad support of its passage.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 45 seconds to the gentleman
from California (Mr. CORREA).
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of this commonsense
legislation, the SAFE Banking Act.
When I was a State senator in Cali-
fornia, I was visited by Dr. Moynihan,
who came to visit my office to ask that
I do some legislation to help his daugh-
ter. In her short lifetime, she had been
tormented by epileptic seizures. The
only drug that worked for her without
severe side effects was cannabis.
It breaks my heart to know that
these legit businesses can pay their
taxes with cash, yet customers like Dr.
Moynihan can’t use a credit card. He
also has to pay with cash to get legiti-
mate products. It doesn’t make sense.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to please support commonsense legisla-
tion. Please vote ‘‘aye’’ on this legisla-
tion.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, may
I inquire how much time I have re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 3 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Colorado has 21⁄4 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. GAETZ).
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. MCHENRY) for yielding, and it is
on behalf of those cannabis patients in
Fort Walton Beach and across the Sun-
shine State that I rise in support of the
SAFE Banking Act.
I am proud to have been a part of
drafting Florida’s medical marijuana
laws, and it is ludicrous that the Con-
gress of the United States would stand
between people operating under the
color of State law and their ability to
access the financial system.
It is good for no one to have billions
of dollars rolling around outside of the
accountabilities, efficiencies, and safe-
guards that the American financial
system provides.
A vast majority of States have legal-
ized some form of cannabis, and if a
business is legal in that State, it
should have the same financial protec-
tions as any other business.
I am a proud original cosponsor of
the SAFE Banking Act, and I thank
my colleagues for their tireless work
on this issue. I know the bill is not per-
fect. I expect the bill to get better in
the Senate, but hopefully, this will
build some commonsense momentum
for real cannabis reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.063 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7973
September 25, 2019
Let’s get this drug off the schedule I
list and do right for the great people in
the country.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 45 seconds to the gentlewoman
from the Virgin Islands (Ms.
PLASKETT).
Ms. PLASKETT. Madam Speaker,
today, because federally regulated
banks and other financial institutions
may face prosecution if they offer their
services to businesses selling legal can-
nabis products across 47 States, D.C.,
and four U.S. territories, many legal
businesses are forced to operate in a
cash-only business, making them tar-
gets for theft and creating opportuni-
ties for tax evasion and money laun-
dering.
It is simply unfair to deprive legal,
State-approved businesses of financial
services any longer. Social equity will
go further by allowing businesses to
come out of the shadows.
As chair of the House Committee on
Agriculture’s Subcommittee on Bio-
technology, Horticulture, and Re-
search, I am pleased that this legisla-
tion was made inclusive of hemp as it
moved through the process. I have
heard from a number of legal hemp
businesses that have experienced simi-
lar issues.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER), my colleague, for the inclu-
sion of the territories.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield 45 seconds to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I strongly sup-
port this bill and congratulate the gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER) and the gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. HECK) for their hard work.
We have to pass this bill because it is
a public safety issue. Banks can’t serve
marijuana businesses, an $11 billion
business, because it is still illegal at
the Federal level, which means that
legal marijuana businesses around the
country operate in all cash.
This is a huge public safety issue be-
cause storing huge piles of cash in
warehouses is a magnet for criminal
activity. But it also means that compa-
nies that just provide services to mari-
juana businesses, like electric or water
utilities, are also getting cut off from
the banking system. Undermining peo-
ple’s access to basic utilities creates
yet another public safety problem.
Madam Speaker, I urge support for
this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, may
I inquire how much time I have re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 2 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Colorado has 45 seconds remaining.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
am prepared to close, and I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, let me begin as I did
with my opening statement. I com-
mend the gentleman from Colorado
(Mr. PERLMUTTER) for how he has man-
aged this bill and brought it to the
floor.
What we have here on the House
floor, and we are debating now, is a
much broader bill and, therefore, will
have a much broader vote than what
we had in committee, however limited
we were in committee jurisdiction.
Madam Speaker, I know if the gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER) were on the Appropriations
Committee, he would have worked for
medical research funding. I know that
if he were on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, he would have
worked for an FDA process on can-
nabis. And if he were on the Committee
on the Judiciary, he would have
worked to deschedule the drug.
However, we find ourselves on the Fi-
nancial Services Committee, and this
is not a normal conversation that we
have on the committee. But this is ad-
dressing a key issue that many States
are facing, and many financial institu-
tions, credit unions, and banks are fac-
ing, which is how to bank people with
a lot of cash, with a product that is
legal at the State level but defined at
the Federal level as an illicit substance
that is harmful for human consump-
tion.
While Congress is taking this half-
measure, it doesn’t resolve the issue. It
does not resolve the issue of medical
research or understanding the brain
science and how cannabis affects the
adolescent brain. There are enormous
questions there. There are enormous
questions about the Federal Criminal
Code. But these are things that we
should be debating rather than this
half-measure on banking.
While this is an important step on
the question of the overall legalization
of this drug, it still doesn’t resolve the
issue fully.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
for a ‘‘no’’ vote, but I expect this vote
will pass on the suspension calendar
today. I thank my colleague for his
handling of this important issue and
the wise nature of how he has ap-
proached the amendment process to ad-
dress many different equities across
the country. I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY). As I said at the top of this
debate, this bill is about public safety,
accountability, and respecting States’
rights.
Our bill is narrowly tailored to get
cash off the streets and improve public
safety in communities across the coun-
try.
I thank my cosponsors. They have
heard from me. They have been work-
ing with me for years, and I really ap-
preciate that. Especially, I thank the
staff of the Committee on Financial
Services, the staff of my cosponsors,
and my own staff for the work they
have done to put this bill and coalition
together.
There are many marijuana issues
that remain, but this one gets the cash
off the streets. This is about public
safety.
Madam Speaker, I urge all my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the SAFE
Banking Act, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Colorado (Mr.
PERLMUTTER) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1595, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 321, nays
103, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 544]
YEAS—321
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hunter
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Mast
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.065 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7974 September 25, 2019
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—103
Aderholt
Allen
Arrington
Babin
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Conaway
Cook
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hice (GA)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Lucas
Marchant
McCaul
McHenry
Meadows
Moolenaar
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Ratcliffe
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Stewart
Thornberry
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
NOT VOTING—9
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Higgins (LA)
Marshall
McEachin
Torres (CA)
Wright
b 1742
Messrs. SENSENBRENNER,
BUCHANAN, and Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. EMMER, NADLER, Mrs.
LURIA, Messrs. HUNTER, WOMACK,
LONG, Ms. STEFANIK, Messrs.
RESCHENTHALER and TIMMONS
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HOMELAND SECURITY
IMPROVEMENT ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2203) to
increase transparency, accountability,
and community engagement within the
Department of Homeland Security,
provide independent oversight of bor-
der security activities, improve train-
ing for agents and officers of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment, and for other purposes, will now
resume.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I am in its present form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Green of Tennessee moves to recommit
the bill, H.R. 2203, to the Committee on
Homeland Security with instructions to re-
port the same back to the House forthwith
with the following amendment:
Add, at the end of section 711 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (as proposed to be
added by section 1 of the bill), the following:
‘‘(k) PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS OF CRIME IN
SANCTUARY CITIES.—
‘‘(1) RECEIPT OF COMPLAINTS.—The Ombuds-
man shall use the process established under
subsection (b) to receive complaints—
‘‘(A) from victims of crimes committed by
aliens unlawfully present in the United
States when such crimes occur in sanctuary
jurisdictions; and
‘‘(B) regarding the impact of illegal immi-
gration on communities located in sanctuary
jurisdictions from individuals within such
jurisdictions.
‘‘(2) INCLUSION IN REPORTS.—The Ombuds-
man shall include in the report submitted
under subsection (d) the following:
‘‘(A) The names of each sanctuary jurisdic-
tion from which a complaint under para-
graph (1) was received.
‘‘(B) Information regarding whether a de-
tainer request was issued by U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for an alien
related to a complaint and whether such de-
tainer was acted upon by the relevant sanc-
tuary jurisdiction.
‘‘(C) Any complaint pattern that could be
prevented or reduced by policy or practice
changes by sanctuary jurisdictions.
‘‘(D) Other information or recommenda-
tions, as determined appropriate by the Om-
budsman.
‘‘(3) DEFINITION.—The term ‘sanctuary ju-
risdiction’ means a State or local govern-
ment that has in effect on the effective date
of this section a law, regulation, or policy
that prohibits or in any way restricts a Fed-
eral, State, or local government entity, offi-
cial, or other personnel from complying with
the immigration laws (as defined in section
101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))), or from assisting
or cooperating with Federal law enforcement
entities, officials, or other personnel regard-
ing the enforcement of such laws.’’.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (during the
reading). Madam Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent to dispense with the
reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Tennessee?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Tennessee is recognized for 5 minutes
in support of his motion.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, over 180 jurisdictions in the
United States, including our most pop-
ulated cities and States have passed
laws prohibiting local law enforcement
from cooperating with Federal immi-
gration officials.
In these sanctuary jurisdictions,
local law enforcement is barred from
complying with lawful detainers from
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment. An ICE detainer is a notice to
another law enforcement agency that
ICE intends to assume custody of an il-
legal alien. It includes information on
their criminal history.
The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals
found that ICE administrative war-
rants, which, unlike criminal warrants,
are not issued by a judge, are, in fact,
sufficient to detain in a county jail
someone whom ICE might deport, even
if they have been granted bail or their
charges have been dropped.
Madam Speaker, there are many ac-
counts of innocent men and women and
children murdered, raped, or assaulted
by criminal aliens released by sanc-
tuary cities that refuse to comply with
the ICE detainer.
In March 2018, ICE lodged a detainer
on Martin Gallo-Gallardo, a Mexican
national, in the country illegally after
locating him in an Oregon county jail.
Jail officials did not honor the immi-
gration detainer and released the con-
victed criminal. Seven months later,
he was arrested again, this time for
killing his wife.
In February 2019, police in San Jose,
California, arrested Carlos Carranza, a
Salvadorian national who had entered
the country illegally, in the brutal
slaying of a 59-year-old woman that he
just noticed on the street. Carranza
had an extensive criminal record, hav-
ing been arrested half a dozen times for
assault, battery, and burglary. ICE
lodged seven detainers with local Cali-
fornia authorities, yet, every single
time, local authorities released him
without notifying ICE, and now a
mother of two is dead.
Sadly, I could go on and on with
these horrible true stories. The facts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.036 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7975
September 25, 2019
are undeniable: sanctuary cities con-
stitute a threat to public safety. Mean-
while, as this body fails to act, the
number of victims continues to grow.
We are a nation of laws, and we must
uphold our laws and not reward State
and local officials who deliberately and
flagrantly disregard the laws of this
body.
When I was a State senator in Ten-
nessee, we addressed the problem. I au-
thored a bill and added teeth to our
sanctuary city laws, anti-sanctuary
city laws, so any city that would
choose to ignore the law would lose
their State economic funding.
It is time for Congress to act. Despite
all of our disagreements, all this bill
does is allow the victims to be heard,
that is it. It requires the ombudsman
created by this bill to collect their sto-
ries and the data on these victims.
Under this amendment, any victim of
a crime committed by an illegal immi-
grant in a sanctuary jurisdiction can
safely and securely file a report with
the ombudsman. This allows victims
and their families an opportunity to be
heard by policymakers in Congress and
by the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
Why would we not let the victims be
heard?
The ombudsman will analyze report-
ing patterns, make recommendations
on how we decrease these incidents.
This amendment would at least provide
an outlet for the growing number of
victims and their families to ensure
that their stories are told. Hopefully,
we will act tonight on behalf of the vic-
tims.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
claim the time in opposition to the mo-
tion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Texas is recognized for
5 minutes.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker,
there is no one here who better under-
stands what is happening on the south-
ern border than those of us who actu-
ally live on the U.S.-Mexico border.
There is no one here for whom border
security is more important than those
of us fortunate enough to live on the
southern border.
Since the creation of the Department
of Homeland Security in 2003, Amer-
ican taxpayers have spent over $300 bil-
lion on the agencies that carry out im-
migration enforcement; and the rights
of those of us who live within 100 miles
of the border, and that is the southern
border as well as the northern border,
our rights have been eroded.
What Congress has not done is create
the corresponding transparency, ac-
countability, and oversight needed over
these investments. H.R. 2203 will do
that.
The Republican motion only seeks to
divide us. Quite simply, this is a poison
pill amendment that has no relevance
to what we are trying to do here with
this bill.
Some of my colleagues seem obsessed
with dehumanizing immigrants, cast-
ing them as criminals to be feared and
even hated.
Let me remind Members that the re-
cent massacre in El Paso, Texas, was
not carried out by an immigrant, but
by a killer, a U.S. citizen who drove 600
miles across the State of Texas to
slaughter Mexicans and immigrants.
And he did this in one of the safest cit-
ies in America. Immigrant commu-
nities and border communities remain
among the safest cities in America.
Enough.
And my Republican colleague com-
pletely misses the point of the ombuds-
man, the office of the ombudsman. An
ombudsman is supposed to be focused
on oversight related to the inner work-
ings of the Department, not on exter-
nal policy issues. This amendment is a
side show that detracts from that mis-
sion.
Accountability, oversight, and trans-
parency should not be controversial.
And much of what is in this common-
sense bill is precisely what we have
seen embraced by law enforcement,
local law enforcement in our commu-
nities. Why would we not want to have
a well-funded and powerful Federal law
enforcement agency adhere to those
same values?
Instead of pursuing symbols of divi-
sion, we ask our Republican colleagues
to support fundamental accountability
and oversight over the hundreds of bil-
lions of dollars we have given to DHS
and support transparency for a power-
ful agency.
History will not judge us kindly for
the way that this administration has
treated migrants, agents, and border
communities like mine. It will judge us
in this Chamber even more harshly if
we continue to call for more symbols of
division.
Let us commit to responding in a
way that honors our sacred credo of
our country, ‘‘E pluribus unum’’—out
of many, we are one.
Let us commit to responding in a
way that honors our mother of exiles,
the Statue of Liberty, and our heritage
as a nation of immigrants. That is who
we are. It is who we always will be.
Let’s work together and make sure
that our response is one filled with
common sense and compassion.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this motion and
a ‘‘yes’’ on the underlying bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minute votes
on passage of the bill, if ordered, and
adoption of House Resolution 576.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 207, noes 216,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 545]
AYES—207
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—216
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.071 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7976 September 25, 2019
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Grothman
Higgins (LA)
Huizenga
Marshall
McEachin
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1800
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 545.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
194, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 546]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Higgins (LA)
Huizenga
Marshall
McEachin
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1807
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 545 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 546.
f
RAISING A QUESTION OF THE
PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
rise to a question of the privileges of
the House, and I send to the desk a
privileged resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the resolution.
The Clerk read as follows:
Whereas at a press conference on Sep-
tember 24, 2019, Speaker of the House Nancy
Pelosi stated: ‘‘Therefore today, I’m an-
nouncing the House of Representatives is
moving forward with an official impeach-
ment inquiry.’’
Whereas House Practice states that:
‘‘Under the modern practice, an impeach-
ment is normally instituted by the House by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.038 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7977
September 25, 2019
the adoption of a resolution calling for a
committee investigation of charges against
the officer in question.’’
Whereas in the past 25 years, the House of
Representatives has moved forward with im-
peachment against a federal officer three
times, each initiated by an impeachment in-
quiry resolution approved by the full House,
not by a unilateral decree of the Speaker.
Whereas on May 12, 2009, the House ap-
proved H. Res. 424, authorizing and directing
the Committee on the Judiciary to inquire
whether the House should impeach Samuel
B. Kent, a judge of the United States Dis-
trict Court for the Southern District of
Texas.
Whereas on January 13, 2009, the House ap-
proved H. Res. 15, authorizing and directing
the Committee on the Judiciary to inquire
whether the House should impeach G. Thom-
as Porteous, a judge of the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
Whereas on October 8, 1998, the House ap-
proved H. Res. 581, authorizing and directing
the Committee on the Judiciary to inves-
tigate whether sufficient grounds exist for
the impeachment of William Jefferson Clin-
ton, President of the United States.
Whereas the Committee Report to accom-
pany H. Res. 581 stated: ‘‘Because the issue of
impeachment is of such overwhelming im-
portance, the Committee decided that it
must receive authorization from the full
House before proceeding on any further
course of action.’’
Whereas that report further stated: ‘‘Be-
cause impeachment is delegated solely to the
House of Representatives by the Constitu-
tion, the full House of Representatives
should be involved in critical decision mak-
ing regarding various stages of impeach-
ment.’’
Whereas the Speaker’s extraordinary deci-
sion to move forward with an impeachment
inquiry without any debate or vote on such
a resolution by the full House undermines
the voting privileges afforded to each Mem-
ber and the constituents they represent.
Whereas this unprecedented and politically
motivated decision by Speaker Pelosi rep-
resents an abuse of power and brings dis-
credit to the House of Representatives: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved: That the House of Representa-
tives disapproves of the actions of the Speak-
er of the House, Mrs. Pelosi of California, to
initiate an impeachment inquiry against the
duly elected President of the United States,
Donald J. Trump.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution presents a question of the
privileges of the House.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I have
a motion at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Hoyer moves that the resolution be
laid on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to table.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to table
will be followed by a 5-minute vote on
agreeing to H. Res. 576.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 232, noes 193,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 547]
AYES—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—193
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Higgins (LA)
Marshall
McEachin
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1818
Mr. CASTRO of Texas changed his
vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the motion to table was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE
HOUSE WITH RESPECT TO WHIS-
TLEBLOWER COMPLAINT MADE
TO INSPECTOR GENERAL OF IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on agreeing
to the resolution (H. Res. 576) express-
ing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives with respect to the whis-
tleblower complaint of August 12, 2019,
made to the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.050 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7978 September 25, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion.
This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 421, nays 0,
answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting 10, as
follows:
[Roll No. 548]
YEAS—421
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
Gohmert
Massie
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Higgins (LA)
Joyce (OH)
Marshall
McEachin
Nunes
Wright
b 1824
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RESIGNATION AS MEMBER OF
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
LEE of Nevada) laid before the House
the following resignation as a member
of the Committee on Small Business:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
MADAM SPEAKER: I am writing to submit
my resignation from the Committee on
Small Business to allow an incoming Mem-
ber of Congress to have the opportunity to
sit on the Committee. I am honored to have
served on the Committee, and I am thankful
for Chairwoman Velazquez and Ranking
Member Chabot’s leadership.
Sincerely,
TRENT KELLY,
Member of Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
RESIGNATION AS MEMBER OF
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SE-
CURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion as a member of the Committee on
Homeland Security:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 25, 2019.
The Honorable NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI:I write to respect-
fully tender my resignation as a member of
the Committee on Homeland Security.
It was my great honor and privilege to
serve on the Homeland Security committee
since I was first elected to Congress, and I
will continue prioritizing national security
issues through my work as Ranking Member
at the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security as
well as the House Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence.
During my tenure in Congress, I attained
additional committee assignments, which
made me one of just a handful of members to
serve on four committees. I relinquished this
seat on the Homeland Security Committee
to make room for the new Republican House
members elected in the recent special elec-
tions through committee assignments that
best serve the Republican conference overall.
Sincerely,
JOHN RATCLIFFE,
Member of Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
b 1830
GUN VIOLENCE IS A NATIONAL
HEALTH AND NATIONAL SECU-
RITY CRISIS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, while
we mourn those lost in these all-too-
frequent mass shootings, it is impor-
tant to remember, while some cities
suffer these tragedies occasionally,
others suffer them daily.
Every year, dozens of my neighbors
are victims of shootings across my
city. We need to stop looking at guns
as simply a Second Amendment issue
and address them as a national health
and security crisis.
Our people are dying, and we have
the power to stop it.
We have already taken similar ac-
tions in other industries when lives are
threatened or lost. Automobiles are a
safety risk, so we pushed for seatbelts
and airbags. Smoking is a health risk,
so we banned advertisement and vend-
ing machines to protect our children.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:18 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.081 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7979
September 25, 2019
That is why I am proud to support
stricter background checks before a
gun purchase and a ban on high-capac-
ity magazines, which should only be
available to trained American soldiers.
But we must do more.
Like me, many Members return to
districts where gun violence is all too
common and where it is rare to find a
family that has not lost a member to
this national menace.
f
HUMAN TRAFFICKING IS ALIVE
AND WELL
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to call attention to the issue of
human trafficking, which is still alive
and well today.
The United States has been ranked
among the top three nations of origin
for victims of human trafficking in
2018, according to a recent report by
the State Department, and is the num-
ber one consumer of sex trafficking
worldwide.
This is absolutely unacceptable, and
as a Member of Congress, we must use
all means necessary to rid our Nation
of human trafficking and keep people
safe from this kind of abuse.
That is why, this week, I will be in-
troducing two bills to help combat
this. They are the Prevent Trafficking
in Our Schools Act, and the COMBAT
Act of 2019.
The Prevent Trafficking in Our
School Act instructs the Secretary of
Homeland Security and Secretary of
Education to develop a pilot program
to train school officials and teachers to
identify signs of trafficking in our
schools and educate these same offi-
cials on the prevalence in our commu-
nity.
The COMBAT Act addresses the fact
that the U.S. does not have an official
count for domestic human trafficking
by requiring a report to Congress on
the prevalence of human trafficking
happening within the United States.
I ask for support on these bills.
f
IMPORTANT ISSUES OF THE DAY
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
today the transcript was released of
the conversation between the President
of the United States and the President
of Ukraine.
As a person who believes in the Con-
stitution and the rule of law, it is cru-
cial that we proceed with the work
that is necessary, and so I rise to add
my enthusiastic support for H. Res. 576
that just passed, expressing the sense
of Congress with respect to the whistle-
blower complaint, in order to protect
the whistleblower and to have the com-
plaint sent to the United States Con-
gress, which, I believe, it is on its way,
and, if not, we must have it as quickly
as possible.
Let me also say that today we had a
very important hearing in the Judici-
ary Committee regarding the ban on
assault weapons. It has been 53 days
since El Paso, 52 days since Dayton,
and 25 days since Odessa.
It seems that the leadership of the
NRA finds my statements attractive,
and so they have taken to the airways
with their cousin, FOX News, to talk
about the opinion that I had regarding
the AR–15 that, to me, ‘‘it was as heavy
as 10 boxes.’’
As a person who believes in the First
Amendment, I have a right to say that.
To all of the members of the NRA: I be-
lieve in your beliefs and your right to
believe them, but you are being led by
an unfortunate group of leaders who
simply want to attack and have no so-
lutions.
I will take the hit from the NRA to
save lives. I am not afraid of the NRA.
f
PFAS REMEDIATION
(Mr. FITZPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to discuss a very important
matter and one that is bipartisan in
nature.
I thank my friend and colleague from
Michigan (Mr. KILDEE) for helping us
organize and bring awareness to an
issue that affects communities across
the United States.
As co-chair of the Congressional
PFAS Task Force, I am pleased that
PFAS remediation efforts are receiving
the attention so desperately needed.
In Bucks and Montgomery Counties,
we have seen firsthand the negative
impacts PFAS contamination has had
on our community. Further action
must be taken on a Federal level.
Earlier this year, the House and the
Senate passed their NDAA bills that
both included important provisions to
address PFAS contamination. These
provisions will help to clean up con-
taminated sites, stop PFAS from pol-
luting our drinking water in the fu-
ture, and protect our servicemembers
and our first responders.
In order to protect veterans and fam-
ilies in our communities from PFAS, in
the final NDAA, we must have the best
PFAS provisions from the House and
Senate NDAA bills.
Madam Speaker, I call, tonight, for
all NDAA conferees to ensure resources
for PFAS remediation efforts are in-
cluded in the final package. This issue
cannot wait any longer. Congress must
act now.
f
MARIJUANA INDUSTRY NEEDS
HELP FROM BANKERS
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in overwhelming support of
the SAFE Banking Act of 2019.
Almost 3 years ago, Nevada voters
went to the polls and voted to legalize
recreational marijuana, making Ne-
vada one of five States to legalize
marijuana in the 2016 election.
After its legalization, local business
owners invested in Nevada’s legal can-
nabis market, creating jobs and oppor-
tunity. The Nevada marijuana market
quickly exceeded expectations, growing
rapidly to become a burgeoning indus-
try.
Within 10 months, Nevada also ex-
ceeded the initial 1-year projection of
tax revenue, bringing in more than $55
million in taxes for our schools, money
that would have otherwise flooded the
illicit drug market. Today, Nevada
raises more revenue from cannabis ex-
cise taxes than alcohol excise taxes.
Interestingly enough, the marijuana
industry did this without incurring
vast detriments to society, creating an
addiction crisis, or serving as a gate-
way drug, as marijuana opponents have
long argued.
f
CONGRATULATING ERIN WILLMAN
FOR CREATING OPPORTUNITIES
FOR DISABLED ADULTS
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize Erin Willman of Warren, Pennsyl-
vania. Just 22 years old, Erin is run-
ning her own business, White Cane Cof-
fee.
Erin founded her company with an
important goal in mind: to provide peo-
ple with disabilities with self-sus-
taining jobs.
Erin is blind and on the autism spec-
trum. She believes that providing a
welcoming environment centered
around a good cup of coffee is a natural
way to promote inclusivity.
White Cane Coffee offers eight dif-
ferent roast varieties, and each bag in-
cludes braille-friendly labels.
Despite being capable and wanting to
work, almost 90 percent of adults with
autism are either unemployed or un-
deremployed. For many, jobs are ex-
tremely difficult to find; and for oth-
ers, work environments are not sup-
portive or are even hostile to those
who are disabled. Erin is helping to
bridge this gap by empowering autistic
adults in her community.
I am proud of the work that Erin is
doing every day to create opportunities
for autistic adults in Warren County.
f
CANNABIS COMPANIES NEED FI-
NANCIAL INSTITUTIONS TO HELP
THEM START AND GROW
(Ms. PINGREE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.086 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7980 September 25, 2019
Ms. PINGREE. Madam Speaker, I
rise to support H.R. 1595, the SAFE
Banking Act, which passed this House
this afternoon.
Maine voters have legalized mari-
juana. Like every other business, can-
nabis companies in Maine and other le-
galization States need financial insti-
tutions to help them start and grow.
Maine credit unions and banks want
to help. They were early advocates of
the SAFE Banking Act. They recognize
that a safe harbor is necessary so that
lenders can assist this emerging indus-
try sector, to the benefit of consumers,
lenders, and law enforcement.
Just yesterday, a banker from south-
ern Maine contacted me out of regret.
The bank had to close a long-time cus-
tomer’s account when they found out
he was a delivery driver for a legal
marijuana producer. Due to potential
Federal liability, the bank lost a cus-
tomer. The citizen lost his trusted fi-
nancial institution.
Does he have to keep his earnings
under a mattress?
This makes no sense. The SAFE
Banking Act will fix this problem by
allowing lenders to legally serve mari-
juana businesses. It promotes security
by ensuring transactions are done
through regulated institutions, not
with bags of cash.
f
AAKASH PATEL NAMED BUSINESS-
MAN OF THE YEAR BY THE
INDO-U.S. CHAMBER OF COM-
MERCE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate one of Tampa Bay’s
most impactful business leaders,
Aakash Patel.
Aakash was recently honored as
Businessman of the Year by the Indo-
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a group
that provides Asian American profes-
sionals and entrepreneurs a platform to
share and collaborate.
Aakash currently serves as the chair-
man of the Early Learning Coalition of
Hillsborough County, a 501(c)(3) that
provides quality childhood care and
after-school programs to many of the
children in my district.
At the age of 27, Aakash founded a
local consulting firm, with an expertise
in public relations, targeted net-
working, and social media. Under his
leadership, his small group of
millennials, over the last 9 years, has
actively resourced over 150 companies.
His love and passion for our commu-
nity is also seen in his role as the
youngest board member of the Greater
Tampa Chamber of Commerce and with
his selection as an honorary com-
mander at MacDill Air Force Base.
Please join me in congratulating one
of Tampa’s most well-established ris-
ing stars in the business community,
Aakash Patel.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
S.J. RES. 54, TERMINATION OF
NATIONAL EMERGENCY DE-
CLARED BY THE PRESIDENT ON
FEBRUARY 15, 2019
Mr. MORELLE, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–218) on the resolution (H.
Res. 591) providing for consideration of
the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 54) relat-
ing to a national emergency declared
by the President on February 15, 2019,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
DISPLAY ON NATIONAL MALL BY
THE HISTORICAL VEHICLE ASSO-
CIATION
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
want to point out a unique opportunity
for viewing. The U.S. Park Service,
their division of the Historic Vehicle
Association, places on display in The
National Mall, several times a year,
unique vehicles with unique histories.
Right now, in a glass case just a cou-
ple of blocks from here in The National
Mall is the 1966 Volkswagen van that
belonged to Esau and Janie Jenkins
from South Carolina, who were long-
time revered civil rights leaders back
in the day, transporting people to ral-
lies and to get them out to vote and for
voter registration, education, all sorts
of things in the civil rights movement,
starting back in the 1940s until they
obtained this van and used it for many
years.
It was brought out from a field where
it had been deteriorating over many
years. It was brought back to life in
this display for everyone to see in this
glass case. It will be here for the rest of
the week.
I encourage people to go down and
check that out and see what the His-
toric Vehicle Association is doing.
f
b 1845
GOOD ECONOMIC NEWS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
this is going to be one of those eve-
nings where I am going to try to actu-
ally go through sort of complex num-
bers, but a lot of it is incredibly opti-
mistic.
I am going to do two things tonight:
Part of this is just some frustration
on numbers that I keep seeing out
there that aren’t being discussed here
in this body that are incredibly opti-
mistic in the economy.
And the second thing is: I want to
talk about, remember last week the
theme was global warming, climate
change, the environment, and I had my
issue of The Economist on what is
called the climate issue?
I want to talk about some really
amazing technologies that I can’t be-
lieve weren’t discussed last week that
are actually about to create stunning
breakthroughs.
So, let’s first actually talk through
this. I have this intense frustration
that my brothers and sisters on the
left, and even a number of us on the
right, don’t talk enough or at all about
the amazing good things happening to
the American worker, to people out
there who had a pretty rough previous
decade.
The math is the math. So the
premise I want to give right now is eco-
nomic growth is moral because it up-
lifts, it makes work valuable, it im-
proves your future, your retirement,
and your ability to take care of your
kids. Economic growth is moral.
The reason I have this particular
board up—and we try to do this every
week—is what are some of the greatest
threats to our society?
I actually believe it is the stunning
size of our unfunded liabilities. Once
again—and I say this almost every
week when I am behind this micro-
phone—the next 30 years, if you take
Social Security and Medicare and re-
move it from the 30-year window, this
country, the Federal Government, the
CBO projection, $23 trillion in the
bank, if we pull Social Security and
Medicare into that number, then we
are $103 trillion in debt—negative.
That is not Republican or Democrat
math, it is just demographics. There
are 74 million of us who are baby
boomers. We are moving into our
earned benefits, and the honest truth
is, the resources that were required to
meet these earned benefits were never
set aside.
So how do we keep our commit-
ments?
We are actually proposing over and
over and over that it is a combination.
There is no magic bullet. It is a com-
bination. Madam Speaker, you have
got to grow the economy like crazy. So
tax policy that grows and expands,
trade policy that grows and expands,
immigration policy that grows and ex-
pands, regulatory policy that grows
and expands, and incentives to be in
the labor force that grow and expand
the economy.
The adoption of disruptive tech-
nology to change the price of
healthcare is absolutely necessary. We
need incentives for Americans who are
older and who feel they are healthy and
still want to work, to stay in the labor
force. We go over these details over and
over and over again.
There is a way to make the math sur-
vivable without some of the lunacy of
functionally almost buying constitu-
encies with outlandish promises, just
managing the reality of our demo-
graphics and our current promises.
Once again, every 5 years, just the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.088 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7981
September 25, 2019
growth in Social Security, Medicare,
and healthcare entitlements—just the
growth—will equal the Defense Depart-
ment. That means every 10 years two
Defense Departments is just the
growth.
CBO projects that in the next 10
years, 91 percent of the growth will be
in spending on Social Security, Medi-
care, and healthcare entitlements.
Much of that is calculated with actu-
ally a new much, much lower medical
inflation. It is demographics. It is pop-
ulation shifts moving into those bene-
fits.
You would think, Madam Speaker, if
those who come behind these micro-
phones actually loved and cared for
their brothers and sisters, they would
actually try something new, and that
would be invest in a calculator, tell the
truth about the math, come together,
and make it work. We believe there is
a way to make it work.
Part of the reason I am behind the
microphone tonight is I want to talk
about some of the amazing things that
are happening, proving the first part of
that discussion, that you can change
the economic cycle. I have been on the
Joint Economic Committee now for
years. And these freaky smart profes-
sors, demographers, and economists
would come and sit in front of us and
say: David, it looks like your future is
a 1.8, maybe a 1.9 GDP growth. We are
going to have a labor force that is
going to fall somewhere into the mid-
50s as people retire, because remember
10,300 Americans turn 65 every single
day.
That was our future, Madam Speak-
er, and you couldn’t make this math
work at all.
So how many times did you hear the
term a fiscal cliff is coming?
Then this crazy thing has happened
the last couple of years where we
changed our tax law and we updated
our regulatory environment. We are
still negotiating, trying to update our
trade environment. But just those cou-
ple of levers changed the economic life
for so many Americans. Yet this place
is so incredibly sour, I don’t know why
there is not joy.
I want to walk through some of these
numbers. Look, these are just some of
the headlines. Associated Press said
that U.S. household income finally
matches 1990 peak, while poverty rate
hits its lowest since 2001. That is what
they call inflation-adjusted dollars. We
had a lost decade. We had a couple of
lost decades. We are back.
For the first time, most new work-
ing-age hires in the U.S. are people of
color. It turns out, when we would sit
in the Joint Economic Committee a
couple years ago, we would hear that
those who didn’t have graduate de-
grees, those who didn’t finish high
school and who didn’t have these par-
ticular skill sets were going to be con-
signed to the permanent underclasses.
Besides just the common cruelty of
accepting that, the darkness of accept-
ing that, it turns out it wasn’t true.
Why isn’t there joy?
This is an editorial from The Wall
Street Journal from the editorial board
on the 20th, and there are some num-
bers in here we have been tracking.
They did a fine job sort of lumping it
together. But we all saw it here on this
floor in some of those 1-minute com-
ments a couple weeks ago, a number of
our brothers and sisters on the left
were just outraged that in 2018, Med-
icaid rolls declined.
Do you know why they declined?
It turns out they declined because
workers’ earnings increased by 3.4 per-
cent while the poverty rate decreased
by another half a percent. So now the
poverty rate is at 11.8. It is still unac-
ceptably high. It is also the lowest
since 2001, and some of the fastest re-
duction of poverty in U.S. history was
just last year.
If you say you care about those who
don’t have many of the same opportu-
nities or haven’t had them in life,
Madam Speaker, shouldn’t there be
just a little recognition there is some-
thing pretty amazing happening out
there in the economy for these folks
who were being written off as being
part of the permanent underclass? Yet
they have the fastest growing wages in
those lower quartiles.
I am sorry. I know I get behind this
microphone and often sound like an ac-
countant on steroids. I struggle with a
way to make this sort of a powerful
story, a powerful narrative. So many of
our brothers and sisters around here
get behind this microphone and are
great at telling stories. But under-
standing this math—I don’t care if you
are Democrat or Republican, Madam
Speaker, you should be joyful that
something is working out there, and
you would think policy-wise we would
have a discussion of how we keep it
going.
Some more from this editorial: Full-
Time, year-round workers increased by
2.3 million in 2018. Employment gains
were the biggest among minorities, fe-
male-led households. The share of
workers in female-led households who
worked full-time year-round increased
by 4.2 percent, and among Hispanics 3.6
percent.
It is the next paragraph that caught
my eye when I was reading this on the
airplane, and I can’t believe it wasn’t
headlined around this country, because
we all talk about how we care about
those who have had a really rough dec-
ade, those who have been poor, and
those who are fighting and struggling
to feed their families and move up.
As a result, real median earnings—
and let’s stop for a moment. When you
hear the words ‘‘real median earnings,’’
Madam Speaker, what does that mean?
It is something we call inflation-ad-
justed dollars. So, if we tell you your
income went up 2 percent, but last year
inflation was 1 percent, you only went
up 1 percent. So when you hear the
term real dollars or constant dollars or
adjusted dollars, it means we have
made up for inflation, so your pur-
chasing power is held constant.
As a result, real median earnings for
female households with no spouse
present jumped 7.6 last year.
How many speeches have been given
on this floor over the last decade about
that population and the crushing bur-
den of poverty?
More happened last year than had
happened in the previous few years in
moving that population out of poverty.
I am sure our brothers and sisters on
the left when they hear the actual
math will be joyful because they care
about these folks, right?
The poverty rate among female
households declined 2.7 percent for Af-
rican Americans—Blacks—4 percent for
Hispanics, and 7.1 percent for their
children. Those are amazing numbers.
It is part of my point that I keep try-
ing to make over and over. Economic
growth is moral.
But what was more important, be-
cause the irony of this editorial, the
real cure for inequality, it turns out
that the share of households making
less than $35,000 in inflation-adjusted
dollars has fallen 1.2 percent, because
they were making more. But when you
actually look at the amount where the
income growth was, it wasn’t at the
upper quartiles of income. It looks like
the growth in income with what they
say in the lower quartiles. Meaning, as
this editorial—and we still don’t have
the math yet, but we are tracking it,
we are probably not going to have it
for another year when we look back at
2019—but preliminarily, 2019 may be
the year, the first year in modern
times, where income inequality actu-
ally shrinks.
It is not because the wealthy didn’t
get wealthier. It is because those in the
lower income finally were receiving
pay raises, because they are finally
working in a world where there are
more jobs than there is available labor,
so their labor is more valuable.
Isn’t that exciting?
Shouldn’t we all get together, Repub-
licans and Democrats, and figure out
how to do more of this?
b 1900
The editorial touches on this, but I
want to give an explanation. As 10,300
Americans retire every day, those are
often individuals who are near the peak
of their earning cycle, their lifetime
earnings.
The economists for years and years
had said they expected to see certain
mean income fall because high-skilled
workers, because of their time in the
workforce, they were retiring and their
salary was going to come out. Younger
workers weren’t being paid as much. It
turns out, some of our youngest work-
ers have had some of the biggest pops
in income.
Mean incomes increased in house-
holds between the ages of 15 to 24 and
25 to 34 by 9.1 percent and 5 percent, re-
spectively. It turns out our young
workers had some of the most aggres-
sive, positive pay raises in all of soci-
ety.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.090 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7982 September 25, 2019
How much have we heard that on our
media? How about our financial press?
How much here on the floor? How
much from those who care about social
policies?
Look, the reality of it is that some-
thing pretty amazing is happening out
there in our economy. When you saw
the August unemployment numbers of
how many Americans who were not
even looking came back into the labor
force, because, back to our previous
point, labor force participation, a
growing economy, is moral. It is some-
thing that I hope everyone here, no
matter what your ideology, is joyful
about. That economic expansion, we
are starting to see it in the early data
from CBO, and soon, hopefully, the So-
cial Security actuaries. The dates of
running out of money in our earned en-
titlement programs are getting pushed
off because of the amount of payroll
taxes that are coming in.
As you look at these numbers, try to
absorb how stunning. Earnings for sin-
gle female households in just 2018—we
are not talking multiple years—just
2018 of 7.6 percent. If I had shown up
here a couple of years ago and said that
is what 2018 was going to produce, you
would have laughed me out of the
place, but it happened.
Poverty rates for female households
are down 2.7 percent; for Hispanic,
down 4 percent. The 2.7 is African
American.
Hasn’t this also been the goal around
here? We were going to find policies
that created a level, egalitarian sort of
equity in participating in the Amer-
ican Dream, the economic expansion. It
is happening.
I am sure when my brothers and sis-
ters on the left see these numbers, they
will soon be coming to these micro-
phones overjoyed, joyful, excited that
the policies from the Republicans over
the last couple of years have brought
economic numbers that a lot of those
really smart professors, economists,
and demographers who sat in front of
us over the last decade said were im-
possible.
We need to rethink. If you claim you
care, maybe we should engage in poli-
cies that really do work. Just as the
Wall Street editorial makes very, very
clear, we have seen distribution not lift
people out of poverty. In many ways,
the math has kept them in poverty.
But the economic expansion, the eco-
nomic miracle from the last couple of
years, is working. Maybe we should
consider doing more of it. So, look,
that is just an intense frustration I
have.
I want to start with this slide, sort of
as the thought experiment. I am some-
one who cares a lot about the environ-
ment, but I also care about telling the
truth about the math. Virtue signaling
does not make the environment
healthier and cleaner. It may get you
reelected. It may get you some nice
comments on Twitter or a blog. It
doesn’t make the environment better.
So every once in a while I will bring
this slide up.
D.C. is one of the communities that
has banned straws. Bless them. How
many U.S. straws end up in the ocean?
Oh, pretty much none.
Madam Speaker, 90 percent of the
ocean plastic—and I am someone, be-
fore I got this job—look, I am blessed
to represent one of the greatest dis-
tricts you can imagine, lots of smart
people, lots of people who care. Lots of
people have chosen to move their lives,
their existence, their prosperity, and
work hard in the Phoenix-Scottsdale
area. But when you are in the desert,
you used to love to go to the ocean and
go scuba diving. So plastic in the ocean
was always one those things you talked
about, you cared about.
Madam Speaker, 90 percent of the
plastic in the ocean comes from 10 riv-
ers, eight of them in Asia, two of them
in Africa. If you cared about plastic in
the ocean, you would do something
that is simple and logical: Go to the 10
rivers that are 90 percent of the plastic
in the ocean and do something.
A number of us on the Republican
side are trying to find ways to adjust
parts of our foreign policy, our envi-
ronmental aid, some of our engineering
skills, and those things to these loca-
tions of these 10 rivers that are 90 per-
cent of the plastic in the ocean. It is
absolutely fascinating the reaction I
have had from some of our brothers
and sisters who just stare at me be-
cause—well, that pretty much ends the
virtue signaling of: We are going to get
rid of straws, even though 90 percent of
the problem is these 10 rivers, eight in
Asia, two in Africa.
If you claim you care, learn the ac-
tual facts, because virtue signaling
does not make this world cleaner.
Let’s talk about this last week and
optimism. Amazing article, a company
called TerraPower, and apparently, Bill
Gates is a substantial investor in it. It
is a new, dramatically more efficient
type of nuclear power. There were some
numbers in the article that I thought
were important for the continuation of
the thought experiment.
About 20 percent of America’s elec-
tric power comes from nuclear. Seven-
teen percent comes from renewables.
Nuclear still is more than renewables.
About 63 percent is from fossil fuels.
Here is the problem with that: If you
take a look, the column over here on
my right—if you are watching this,
your left—are different nuclear power
generation that has been shut down or
is being shut down. This goes back to
2016. That was some of the newest data
I could find. The other side is photo-
voltaic.
Do you notice something? The two
lines are almost identical. If you are
someone that is giddy—and look, I am
from Arizona. We love our photo-
voltaic, but we also have the largest
nuclear power plant, which is run by
Arizona Public Service, in the country
at amazing uptime. They do an amaz-
ing job running that facility. But this
is nuclear power coming offline. That
is photovoltaic going online.
You will notice there is no net posi-
tive. If you are someone that cares
about CO2, greenhouse gas going into
the atmosphere, unless you are stabi-
lizing nuclear power, instead of taking
it offline, you didn’t get anywhere. But
we reward virtue signaling around here
and not actual math.
Let’s talk some more about the good
news and some of the technology
breakthroughs that are happening
around us. This one is one of my favor-
ites because something the Committee
on Ways and Means did last year—and
we did it bipartisan, demonstrating
you can do these things—is we updated
what we call the carbon sequestration
tax credit.
This is a facility that is up and run-
ning—what is it?—outside the Houston
area, in Texas. I hope I don’t butcher
the technology, but it is a natural gas-
fired power plant with no smokestack.
They figured out how to take the nat-
ural gas, explode it, slam it through
the turbines, spin the turbines, produce
electricity, and on the other end, cap-
ture all the CO2. Then they sell it, re-
cycle it. Now we are learning they can
take that CO2, and through a process—
I think you have to put it to like 150
bars of pressure and those things—it
turns out it becomes an incredibly
clean-burning fuel because it is really
pure carbon.
This facility, I think—if I remember
the article—they are trying now to find
funding to go up to around 300
megawatts. But they have proven you
can burn a hydrocarbon, produce base-
load electrical power, and not have a
smokestack.
The technology is up and running
today and, apparently, a few miles
away, there is another plant that is
doing the same experiment with coal
and no smokestack.
This is a big deal, but there are many
of us who also think of the greenhouse
gas issue as global. When you have
countries like China and its Belt and
Road Initiative, it is bringing on 32, 33
coal-fired power plants with function-
ally almost no greenhouse gas mitiga-
tion, carbon capture. They are not
using the newest technology.
What happens to a world where some-
one like myself says that we need the
economic growth, that we don’t have
the economic growth, that we can
never keep our economic promises that
we have made to our seniors? Retire-
ment security is crucial to economic
expansion, but we want a clean envi-
ronment.
The lunacy of some of the proposals,
I beg of them, please, come by our of-
fice. We have binders of the disruptive
technology that is coming out. This is
one that I think we have to be joyful
about.
How many of you have ever heard the
discussion of negative carbon emis-
sions? We have discussed this concept
for 100 years. You can pull CO2 out of
the air.
It turns out this facility is up and
running in its pilot project. Bill Gates
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.092 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7983
September 25, 2019
is also a funder of this. It is in Canada.
I wish it was in Arizona. They are
claiming right now that their facility
can pull carbon out of the air for about
$100 to $150 a ton, capture that carbon,
package it, and make a clean-burning
fuel out of it.
If the rest of the world continues to
go the way it is going, the concept that
we now have the technology to yank
carbon out of the air, and if it is really
heading toward $100 a ton, it is at the
threshold where it is economical be-
cause, it turns out, the dollar values—
some of the sequestration tax credits
we do, but also the ability to convert it
back into a fuel, it is almost in the
money.
This is exciting. How many did you
hear talk about this technology over
the last 10 days? It is here.
My beloved university, Arizona State
University, the biggest university in
the United States, has an entire center
devoted to this concept of technology
that is a negative carbon sink. Func-
tionally, it pulls carbon right out of
the air. Their technology is passive,
where the other one is active.
The professor working on this—I
have met with him—freaky smart. He
has a joyful view that basically says
let’s let the technology compete. Who-
ever does it the best will win.
This one is more a distributive model
of this passive collection where you
can put it in lots of locations. Part of
it is the cover for your bus stop, but it
is also pulling carbon out of the air.
The technology is here, so the
Malthusians of this place—and if you
don’t know what that means, please go
look it up—somehow think we need to
go back and live in the dark ages, basi-
cally, or that man has demonstrated
over and over technology is a disrup-
tion.
Look, when I was growing up, I re-
member having a teacher read us the
Population Bomb, scaring me to death
that by the late 1970s, we were all going
to be starving. How many of our kids
out there today hear the propaganda
on some of the reactionaries, the folk-
lore about what is happening out there,
that they are going to be in a planet
that is burning up in their late teenage
years?
The issues are real, but so are the
technology solutions. It turns out solu-
tions often aren’t as elegant as a great
speech with lots of virtue signaling.
I am very proud of the things that
are happening out there.
A final bit of this thought experi-
ment is, years ago, we were blessed—we
had a Ph.D. of physics. I think he is
now—well, he is at one of those special
agencies that does really complex stuff
right now. But he did a math experi-
ment for us. Methane, in our formula,
was considered 84 times more green-
house-causing in its first year than
carbon. So, okay, you get 84-to-1.
b 1915
He came to me with this math exper-
iment saying, if you could build a sub-
stantial pipeline or multiple pipelines
in west Texas and a couple other large
hydrocarbon-producing areas and it
was designed to capture methane and
take that methane and pull it in in
enough density to actually convert it
to a fuel, and then he had that and a
couple other things, you hit the Paris
accord numbers.
Isn’t that exciting? How many of our
brothers and sisters here are already
saying we need to be building a bunch
more pipelines to go collect that meth-
ane so we can capture it, compress it,
make sure it doesn’t go into the air—
except pipelines are, functionally, part
of the religious process here and need
to be opposed.
If anyone is watching, listening, go
look this up: photosynthesis, 40 per-
cent. I actually believe this may be the
single most disruptive bit of tech-
nology in our lifetimes.
It looks like the inherent problem of
plants. You remember all of your high
school biology class where we were told
plant cells have had, for millions of
years, a small flaw. Sometimes they
really, really want that carbon mol-
ecule so they can make a sugar out of
it and, instead, they grab an oxygen
molecule.
Apparently, through synthetic biol-
ogy, they figured out how to rearrange
that plant cell so it always grabs the
carbon. It grows the sugar, and the
plants grow 40 percent more efficient.
Think about that. What would hap-
pen if that technology was part of our
commodity crops, our fresh produce,
the things we eat. The world would
feed itself for another 250 years. It
would mean 40 percent less land, 40 per-
cent less water, 40 percent less fer-
tilizer.
It turns out, world agriculture pro-
duces 2.2 times the greenhouse gases of
every car on Earth. Do you know, if
you had this type of technology as the
crops for around the world, it would be
equal to removing every car off the
face of the Earth?
And, yes, it is a GMO, because the fix
was done through a type of synthetic
biology.
But it would equal removing every
car off the face of the Earth.
These are joyful thought experi-
ments, but the technology is real, and
it is here. We have to figure out, as a
body, how we adopt these things that it
proves we can grow as a society, we can
grow economically as a world.
My soon-to-be 4-year-old little girl
can have an amazing future. We don’t
have to be terrified about the debt cliff
that is going to crush us because we
grew. And we can have the amazing
clean environment and deal with the
issues of greenhouse gases.
Are we ready to pull our heads out
and actually do that crazy thing of
reading and math and understand the
technology disruption is in front of us?
Madam Speaker, are we ready to
adopt, embrace the technology disrup-
tion that allows us to grow, prosper,
and meet so many of our goals?
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the major-
ity leader.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, it is
with grave concern for our country, our
longstanding Western security alli-
ances, and liberty itself that I rise
today.
I have the distinct privilege of serv-
ing on the House Appropriations Sub-
committee on Defense and co-chair the
Congressional Ukraine Caucus.
As the Congresswoman from a dis-
trict with a strong Ukrainian heritage
and tens of thousands of citizens who
understand what liberty demands, I
hold a unique perspective and, dare
say, deep knowledge to speak on the
events of the past several days to pro-
vide some additional context on why
the conversation between President
Donald Trump and the newly elected
President of Ukraine, Volodymyr
Zelensky, is so distressing to our na-
tional security.
The American public has looked on
in horror as America’s President,
President Trump, has willfully ne-
glected his oath of office and sacred
duty to defend the best interests of our
Nation in favor of his own and, in ef-
fect, promote the interests of Russian
dictator Vladimir Putin.
This week, we learned of yet another
instance in which our President has
put national security at risk in favor of
advancing his own personal, partisan,
political objectives.
According to a highly redacted White
House memo released this morning,
new Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelensky was quoted as saying he was
‘‘ready to buy more U.S. antitank mis-
siles to defend his nation against Rus-
sia’s invasion.’’
And President Trump, without skip-
ping a beat, responded: ‘‘I would like
you to do us a favor, though.’’
A favor to receive the funds that this
Congress passed and appropriated? A
favor to disburse the funds already
slated for Ukraine until President
Trump held them back to ask a favor?
That is illegal. It is unconstitutional.
And it is dead wrong.
This exchange is not only a clear vio-
lation of the law; it is an unprece-
dented abuse of power that undermines
our national security, violates our Con-
stitution, and compromises the strug-
gle for liberty on the continent of Eu-
rope that includes America’s most
trusted allies through instrumental-
ities like NATO.
Article I of the Constitution clearly
states that all legislative power shall
be vested in the Congress of the United
States and that Congress holds the
awesome power of the purse.
On July 18, President Trump purpose-
fully directed his administration to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.093 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7984 September 25, 2019
withhold nearly $400 million in defense
assistance for Ukraine from the State
and Defense Departments’ budgets.
These funds were voted by Members
of the House and Senate. And, frankly,
at one point this year, we did not know
that the President was holding the
funds back. When we learned that he
was, I joined my fellow Ukraine Caucus
co-chair, Congressman MIKE QUIGLEY of
Chicago, in issuing a statement de-
manding that the money we had voted
for be released.
Members of Congress wrote the Presi-
dent letters and sent them to the
White House and were told by the ad-
ministration that, well, you know, it
was ‘‘an interagency delay’’ that
caused the funds not to be released to
a nation at war with Russia.
Russia invaded Ukraine, not the re-
verse. And the scrimmage line for lib-
erty on the continent of Europe now is
at the Russian-Ukrainian border, and
our President delayed the release of
those funds.
The President sought to make the re-
lease of national security funds passed
and appropriated by this Congress con-
tingent on asking a new foreign leader
for a favor—a favor—prior to release of
those funds.
Congress must compel the release of
the full conversation that occurred be-
tween President Trump and the new
President of Ukraine, Volodymyr
Zelensky, as well as the full whistle-
blower complaint as was originally
submitted to the Office of Inspector
General.
We do not have the full release. I will
say more about that in a moment.
The document we were provided
today was not a complete transcript of
the conversation that our President
had with President Zelensky. We only
got about 11 minutes of a conversation
that lasted upwards of 30 minutes. Con-
gress must demand the full transcript
and hold the executive branch officials
in contempt if they refuse to give us
the full documents.
Like so many Americans, I am dis-
gusted by President Trump’s repeated
betrayal of American interests in favor
of Vladimir Putin’s.
This President’s efforts to coerce
Ukrainian President Zelensky, an al-
lied leader, into helping him win re-
election by urging congressionally sup-
ported military aid as leverage is not
only a dramatic betrayal of the Presi-
dent’s constitutional duty; it is also
the latest example of Trump doing
Putin’s bidding.
I am certain that our President’s re-
lationship with Vladimir Putin didn’t
start with his veiled support for
Putin’s election meddling or inviting
the Russians to hack the Democratic
National Committee or even lobbying,
most recently, for Russia to be re-
admitted to the G7, our most trusted
allies, when Russia has invaded
Ukraine, for heaven’s sake.
Who benefits when Ukraine loses
military assistance? It is an easy ques-
tion. Russia, the country that is wag-
ing a bloody war in Ukraine for over 5
years.
Who is to say Putin wasn’t listening
in when Trump blackmailed Zelensky?
Madam Speaker, no Member of Con-
gress has traveled to Ukraine as many
times as I, beginning long before I was
in Congress and long before the Berlin
wall fell. I can say with confidence that
Ukraine, today, is the scrimmage line
for liberty’s defense on the continent of
Europe. And that is why President
Trump’s decision to withhold this
money is so troubling.
There is no more important strategic
military alliance for liberty than
America’s membership with European
nations in NATO, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. Every minute of
every day, NATO stands united to de-
fend against dictatorships and protect
our liberties.
Russia has always hated this organi-
zation and will do anything to disrupt
the Western alliance, and she is hard
and fast at work doing that as we stand
here this evening.
We know the battlefields of Europe
directly influenced the founding of our
own Republic and our fundamental
ideals of democracy. NATO stands
ready, as we stand here tonight, to de-
fend our liberty. In return, we keep our
word—our word—for our NATO allies, a
promise that should never be contin-
gent on a single President’s political
objectives back home.
After the collapse of communist Rus-
sia in 1991, Ukraine became a free na-
tion. Ukraine had been occupied for all
of its modern history but began its jag-
ged path forward to the free world, a
path that has been torturous and
fraught with danger and setbacks and,
yes, bloody murder.
To this day, there exists an insidious
network of corrupt Ukrainian and Rus-
sian oligarchs whose tentacles reach
far across Ukraine and the rest of the
world, seeking to undermine the West-
ern alliance while protecting the self-
ish, corrupt financial looting that con-
tinues to this day in that part of the
world and, frankly, even reaching our
shores.
It will be a permanent blot on Amer-
ican history that certain Americans,
including President Trump’s campaign
manager and several other Trump
operatives, were actually involved in
supporting these oligarchs and the un-
democratic forces that are trying to
undermine the Government of Ukraine
every time they try to right them-
selves. And these oligarchs steal and
plunder billions of dollars with their
Kremlin allies.
Despite these setbacks, since
Ukraine’s Euromaidan Revolution of
Dignity 5 years ago, Ukrainian people
have bravely demonstrated their reso-
lute commitment to their nation’s
democratic future.
The latest example is their historic
Presidential and parliamentary elec-
tions, which international observers
lauded as free and fair.
Meanwhile, Russia’s devastating in-
vasion of Ukraine has resulted in more
than 13,000 Ukrainian deaths, including
civilians who have been targeted by
Russian missiles, 30,000 injured, and
more than 2 million displaced inter-
nally.
It is sad that Ukraine must fight a
war on two fronts: a hot war against
Russia, for which she is completely
underarmed, and one against the
enemy from within, the scourge of cor-
ruption, both perpetuated by Russian
influence.
In fact, when Boris Nemtsov, a brave
Russian, was prepared to lead a dem-
onstration for Ukrainian independence,
he was killed on the steps near the
Kremlin—how about that?—in Moscow.
b 1930
That is how Russia plays.
Ukraine’s new President, Volodymyr
Zelensky, and his party in the Rada
won a significant majority because he
promised, finally, to root out this cor-
ruption.
While the ink is fresh on the
Zelensky Presidency, we have high
hopes for him and his ability to live up
to the expectations of his people. It
would be tragic if President Trump
compromised him with his recent
missteps.
In order to make good on his promise
to root out corruption, President
Zelensky must make clear his inde-
pendence from every oligarch. A prime
example is his benefactor, the infa-
mous Ukrainian oligarch Ihor
Kolomoisky. Kolomoisky serves as an
example of corrupt influence on
Ukraine’s fragile political system.
With a net worth of over $1.2 billion—
and I am sure that is a lowball num-
ber—Kolomoisky is one of the richest
and most corrupt oligarchs in Ukraine.
He also owns the television channel
that ran the show ‘‘Servant of the Peo-
ple’’ that propelled Zelensky to star-
dom and popular acclaim.
The question for history will be: Will
Ukraine’s new President be able to rise
to the highest aspirations of those who
voted for him? Or will he be mired in
corruption at home and by entrapment
by foreign leaders like President
Trump?
Kolomoisky, like other oligarchs, did
not become rich due to their acumen.
Rather, they used lies, intimidation,
cheating, stealing, money laundering,
and killing—yes, killing. These are
their stock in trade.
Kolomoisky used his company,
PrivatBank, as a personal piggy bank
by issuing endless loans to himself and,
frankly, laundering billions of dollars—
billions of dollars—including in this
country, mainly in real estate.
In one instance, Kolomoisky hired
hundreds of thugs—think about this—
with iron rods, rubber bullet pistols,
chainsaws, and baseball bats to raid a
plant in order to take it over. He didn’t
buy it. He stole it—surely, a macabre
definition of a hostile takeover.
Due to Kolomoisky’s corruption and
looting of the PrivatBank, the bank
had lost $5.5 billion, putting Ukraine’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.095 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7985
September 25, 2019
economy at risk. That is why the head
of Ukraine’s National Bank, Valeria
Gontareva, nationalized it. This was a
critical step urged by the United
States, the European Union, the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, and the Euro-
pean Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment.
Now, Ms. Gontareva’s life is under
threat. She was hit by a car in London,
leaving her hospitalized. Her son’s car
was burned. Her house in Kiev was
burned down, her apartment raided by
police.
Fear, crime, murder, and destruction
are the paths of repressive regimes.
Freedom-lovers simply do not accept
that way of life for ourselves or for the
future of Ukraine.
For these reasons, I have invited
Valeria to come to Capitol Hill to
share her courageous story in the face
of such brutal intimidation.
Corrupt oligarchs, with their ill-got-
ten gains, launder money to the West,
where they know our laws will keep
their ill-gotten money safe. How ironic
it is that the Kremlin mouthpieces
mock our values of openness and our
strong tradition of rule of law while
Putin’s cronies safely store and invest
their dirty money here.
I can tell you that, in our country,
recent reports have noted that
Kolomoisky and his business partner,
Gennadiy Bogolyubov, have funneled
vast funds through various Delaware-
based shell companies into properties
and businesses around our Nation, even
in my district of Cleveland, Ohio,
where Kolomoisky has become down-
town Cleveland’s largest commercial
real estate owner. How about that?
It is not just in my State. It is in
Florida. It is across this country. This
is what is going on with the kind of
corruption that spreads across our
world, and it is why we have to pay at-
tention to what is happening in
Ukraine because, next to Ukraine, be-
hind the Iron Curtain of Russian lead-
ership, they have a plan to disrupt the
West, certainly using every tool they
have to disrupt the NATO alliance, but
even here in our country, trying to dis-
rupt our way of life.
The newly reconstituted PrivatBank,
which was taken over by the nation of
Ukraine, has brought forth a case on
behalf of its shareholders in Delaware
against Kolomoisky. According to
court documents—and get this—
Kolomoisky laundered $470 billion
through a Cyprus-based shell company
between 2006 and 2016, potentially the
largest money laundering case in his-
tory.
It is now reported that the FBI is
currently investigating these inter-
national financial crimes. I fully sup-
port their investigation to get to the
bottom of these corrupt dealings across
the world but, certainly, in the region
that I live.
The United States and our allies
must send a message that such malign
behavior will not be tolerated. We can-
not be complicit in empowering foreign
money laundering and the enrichment
of corrupt oligarchs. We cannot encour-
age the kind of complicity that the
President inferred in his remarks to
President Zelensky in his recent con-
versation.
The United States and our allies can
take steps to combat the illicit flows of
money that empower the oligarch
economy of money laundering, black-
mail, murder, and extortion. Congress
must enact beneficial ownership trans-
parency legislation to prevent malign
actors from easily opening shell com-
panies here. We must continue to sup-
port investigative journalism, not just
in Ukraine, but here in order to main-
tain our own liberty and remain the
bastion of liberty for the free world.
President Zelensky and the newly
elected Rada must now make good on
their campaign promises to serve the
people of Ukraine, not the oligarchs.
Ukraine’s new President must fully
support the work of anticorruption
that has been promoted by even many
Members of our own Congress, includ-
ing Representative BRIAN FITZPATRICK
from Pennsylvania, who has worked so
hard to establish that effort even prior
to his service here in the Congress.
Critical organizations to perform the
tasks include the National Anti-Cor-
ruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Na-
tional Agency on Corruption Preven-
tion, as well as the Anti-Corruption
Court. The judicial system must be
given true independence to root out
corruption free from any kind of out-
side political influence.
Madam Speaker, the Ukrainian peo-
ple have our full support in their ef-
forts to shake off the rapacious grip of
corrupt oligarchs supported by Russia.
Democracy shines in the sunlight,
and we want that sunlight to shine
here. Any conversation between our
President and the new President of
Ukraine that can reveal any attempt
to threaten security of our long-
standing allied relationships and con-
tinue to threaten liberty demands the
undivided attention of this Congress.
I reiterate my call for transparency,
accountability, and strong,
unencumbered congressional investiga-
tions.
If President Trump and his adminis-
tration fail to comply with legitimate
congressional inquiries, then there is
no other option than for this House to
stand with our American allies and
move forward with impeachment.
We appreciate those who work late
into the evening this night to make
sure that these words get placed in the
RECORD.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following material:
KAPTUR PRESS RELEASE ON WHISTLEBLOWER
COMPLAINT, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
WASHINGTON.—Today, Co-Chair of the Con-
gressional Ukraine Caucus Representatives
Marcy Kaptur (D–OH), released the following
statement after reports of a whistleblower
complaint filed by a member of the Intel-
ligence Community, which is being withheld
from Congress in violation of federal law, is
said to involve Ukraine:
‘‘Today. press reports indicate that a U.S.
intelligence officers whistleblower complaint
regarding President Trump’s possible breach
of national security may involve the nation
of Ukraine.’’ said Rep. Kaptur. As co-chair of
the bipartisan Congressional Ukraine Cau-
cus. I fully support the efforts by Chairman
Adam Schiff and the House Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence to seek a de-
tailed accounting of the complaint and tran-
script of the incident(s), and call upon the
Speaker and Minority Leader to take all
courses of action for appropriate Congres-
sional oversight to obtain the relevant docu-
ments and necessary testimony to establish
confirmation of fact and circumstance.’’
‘‘Following Ukraine’s historic elections
and continued democratic struggles, the
Ukrainian people deserve our full support.
We must know to what extent the President
and his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani. are using the
weight of U.S. foreign policy, including hold-
ing critical security assistance, to advance
their own narrow personal interests.’’
‘‘The American people deserve a govern-
ment free of malign foreign influence. The
American people deserve to know the full
truth.’’
KAPTUR/QUIGLEY PRESS RELEASE TO CON-
DEMN PRESIDENT TRUMP’S ATTEMPT TO
SLOW ROLL CRITICAL ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE, AUGUST 30, 2019
WASHINGTON.—Today, Co-Chairs of the
Congressional Ukraine Caucus Representa-
tives Marcy Kaptur (D–OH) and Mike
Quigley (D–IL) released the following state-
ment condemning President Trump’s at-
tempts to slow-roll $250 million in congres-
sionally appropriated military aid for
Ukraine, known as the Ukraine Security As-
sistance Initiative.
‘‘President Trump’s decision to slow-walk
this congressionally appropriated military
funding for Ukraine is disturbing and dem-
onstrates once again his affinity for Russia
and Russian President Vladimir Putin.’’ the
representatives said in a joint statement.
‘‘This funding is vital to preserving democ-
racy in Ukraine and Eastern Europe and
must not be delayed or hindered in any
way.’’
‘‘With Russia’s unprovoked, unwarranted
and murderous invasion of Ukraine and with
over 10,000 innocent Ukrainians now having
been killed, the President of the United
States should not be a defender of Russian
interests. President Trump has repeatedly
berated our closest allies in the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization. lifted sanctions on
Russian oligarchs. and advocated for Russia
being allowed back in the G7.’’
‘‘The President of the United States should
be a champion for liberty, not a pawn for dic-
tators. This funding cannot be delayed.’’
MEMORANDUM OF TELEPHONE CONVERSATION
Subject: Telephone Conversation with Presi-
dent Zelenskyy of Ukraine.
Participants: President Zelenskyy of
Ukraine. Notetakers: The White House
Situation Room.
Date, time and place: July 25, 2019, 9:03–9:33
a.m. EDT Residence.
The President: Congratulations on a great
victory. We all watched from the United
States and you did a terrific job. The way
you came from behind, somebody who wasn’t
given much of a chance, and you ended up
winning easily. It’s a fantastic achievement.
Congratulations.
President Zelenskyy: You are absolutely
right Mr. President. We did win big and we
worked hard for this. We worked a lot but I
would like to confess to you that I had an op-
portunity to learn from you. We used quite a
few of your skills and knowledge and were
able to use it as an example for our elections
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25SE7.096 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7986 September 25, 2019
and yes it is true that these were unique
elections. We were in a unique situation that
we were able to achieve a unique success. I’m
able to tell you the following; the first time,
you called me to congratulate me when I
won my presidential election, and the second
time you are now calling me when my party
won the parliamentary election. I think I
should run more often so you can call me
more often and we can talk over the phone
more often.
The President: [laughter] That’s a very
good idea. I think your country is very
happy about that.
President Zelenskyy: Well yes, to tell you
the truth, we are trying to work hard be-
cause we wanted to drain the swamp here in
our country. We brought in many many new
people. Not the old politicians, not the typ-
ical politicians, because we want to have a
new format and a new type of government.
You are a great teacher for us and in that.
The President: Well it’s very nice of you to
say that. I will say that we do a lot for
Ukraine. We spend a lot of effort and a lot of
time. Much more than the European coun-
tries are doing and they should be helping
you more than they are. Germany does al-
most nothing for you. All they do is talk and
I think it’s something that you should really
ask them about. When I was speaking to An-
gela Merkel she talks Ukraine, but she
doesn’t do anything. A lot of the European
countries are the same way so I think it’s
something you want to look at but the
United States has been very very good to
Ukraine. I wouldn’t say that it’s reciprocal
necessarily because things are happening
that are not good but the United States has
been very very good to Ukraine.
President Zelenskyy: Yes you are abso-
lutely right. Not only 100%, but actually
1000% and I can tell you the following; I did
talk to Angela Merkel and I did meet with
her. I also met and talked with Macron and
I told them that they are not doing quite as
much as they need to be doing on the issues
with the sanctions. They are not enforcing
the sanctions. They are not working as much
as they should work for Ukraine. It turns out
that even though logically, the European
Union should be our biggest partner but
technically the United States is a much big-
ger partner than the European Union and I’m
very grateful to you for that because the
United States is doing quite a lot for
Ukraine. Much more than the European
Union especially when we are talking about
sanctions against the Russian Federation. I
would also like to thank you for your great
support in the area of defense. We are ready
to continue to cooperate for the next steps
specifically we are almost ready to buy more
Javelins from the United States for defense
purposes.
The President: I would like you to do us a
favor though because our country has been
through a lot and Ukraine knows a lot about
it. I would like you to find out what hap-
pened with this whole situation with
Ukraine, they say Crowdstrike . . . I guess
you have one of your wealthy people. . . The
server, they say Ukraine has it. There are a
lot of things that went on, the whole situa-
tion. I think you’re surrounding yourself
with some of the same people. I would like to
have the Attorney General call you or your
people and I would like you to get to the bot-
tom of it. As you saw yesterday, that whole
nonsense ended with a very poor perform-
ance by a man named Robert Mueller, an in-
competent performance, but they say a lot of
it started with Ukraine. Whatever you can
do, it’s very important that you do it if
that’s possible.
President Zelenskyy: Yes it is very impor-
tant for me and everything that you just
mentioned earlier. For me as a President, it
is very important and we are open for any fu-
ture cooperation. We are ready to open a new
page on cooperation in relations between the
United States and Ukraine. For that pur-
pose, I just recalled our ambassador from
United States and he will be replaced by a
very competent and very experienced ambas-
sador who will work hard on making sure
that our two nations are getting closer. I
would also like and hope to see him having
your trust and your confidence and have per-
sonal relations with you so we can cooperate
even more so. I will personally tell you that
one of my assistants spoke with Mr. Giuliani
just recently and we are hoping very much
that Mr. Giuliani will be able to travel to
Ukraine and we will meet once he comes to
Ukraine. I just wanted to assure you once
again that you have nobody but friends
around us. I will make sure that I surround
myself with the best and most experienced
people. I also wanted to tell you that we are
friends. We are great friends and you Mr.
President have friends in our country so we
can continue our strategic partnership. I
also plan to surround myself with great peo-
ple and in addition to that investigation, I
guarantee as the President of Ukraine that
all the investigations will be done openly
and candidly. That I can assure you.
The President: Good because I heard you
had a prosecutor who was very good and he
was shut down and that’s really unfair. A lot
of people are talking about that, the way
they shut your very good prosecutor down
and you had some very bad people involved.
Mr. Giuliani is a highly respected man. He
was the mayor of New York City, a great
mayor, and I would like him to call you. I
will ask him to call you along with the At-
torney General. Rudy very much knows
what’s happening and he is a very capable
guy. If you could speak to him that would be
great. The former ambassador from the
United States, the woman, was bad news and
the people she was dealing with in the
Ukraine were bad news so I just want to let
you know that. The other thing, There’s a
lot of talk about Biden’s son, that Biden
stopped the prosecution and a lot of people
want to find out about that so whatever you
can do with the Attorney General would be
great. Biden went around bragging that he
stopped the prosecution so if you can look
into it . . . It sounds horrible to me.
President Zelenskyy: I wanted to tell you
about the prosecutor. First of all I under-
stand and I’m knowledgeable about the situ-
ation. Since we have won the absolute ma-
jority in our Parliament, the next prosecutor
general will be 100% my person, my can-
didate, who will be approved by the par-
liament and will start as a new prosecutor in
September. He or she will look into the situ-
ation, specifically to the company that you
mentioned in this issue. The issue of the in-
vestigation of the case is actually the issue
of making sure to restore the honesty so we
will take care of that and will work on the
investigation of the case. On top of that, I
would kindly ask you if you have any addi-
tional information that you can provide to
us, it would be very helpful for the investiga-
tion to make sure that we administer justice
in our country with regard to the Ambas-
sador to the United States from Ukraine as
far as I recall her name was Ivanovich. It
was great that you were the first one who
told me that she was a bad ambassador be-
cause I agree with you 100%. Her attitude to-
wards me was far from the best as she ad-
mired the previous President and she was on
his side. She would not accept me as a new
President well enough.
The President: Well, she’s going to go
through some things. I will have Mr.
Giuliani give you a call and I am also going
to have Attorney General Barr call and we
will get to the bottom of it. I’m sure you will
figure it out. I heard the prosecutor was
treated very badly and he was a very fair
prosecutor so good luck with everything.
Your economy is going to get better and bet-
ter I predict. You have a lot of assets. It’s a
great country. I have many Ukrainian
friends, they’re incredible people.
President Zelenskyy: I would like to tell
you that I also have quite a few Ukrainian
friends that live in the United States. Actu-
ally last time I traveled to the United
States, I stayed in New York near Central
Park and I stayed at the Trump Tower. I will
talk to them and I hope to see them again in
the future. I also wanted to thank you for
your invitation to visit the United States,
specifically Washington DC. On the other
hand, I also want to ensure you that we will
be very serious about the case and will work
on the investigation. As to the economy,
there is much potential for our two countries
and one of the issues that is very important
for Ukraine is energy independence. I believe
we can be very successful and cooperating on
energy independence with United States. We
are already working on cooperation. We are
buying American oil but I am very hopeful
for a future meeting. We will have more time
and more opportunities to discuss these op-
portunities and get to know each other bet-
ter. I would like to thank you very much for
your support
The President: Good. Well, thank you very
much and I appreciate that. I will tell Rudy
and Attorney General Barr to call. Thank
you. Whenever you would like to come to the
White House, feel free to call. Give us a date
and we’ll work that out. I look forward to
seeing you.
President Zelenskyy: Thank you very
much. I would be very happy to come and
would be happy to meet with you personally
and get to know you better. I am looking
forward to our meeting and I also would like
to invite you to visit Ukraine and come to
the city of Kyiv which is a beautiful city. We
have a beautiful country which would wel-
come you. On the other hand, I believe that
on September 1 we will be in Poland and we
can meet in Poland hopefully. After that, it
might be a very good idea for you to travel
to Ukraine. We can either take my plane and
go to Ukraine or we can take your plane,
which is probably much better than mine.
The President: Okay, we can work that
out. I look forward to seeing you in Wash-
ington and maybe in Poland because I think
we are going to be there at that time.
President Zelenskyy: Thank you very
much Mr. President.
The President: Congratulations on a fan-
tastic job you’ve none. The whole world was
watching. I’m not sure it was so much of an
upset but congratulations.
President Zelenskyy: Thank you Mr. Presi-
dent bye-bye.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
BILL PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on September 25,
2019, she presented to the President of
the United States, for his approval, the
following bill:
H.R. 1058. To amend the Public Health
Service Act to enhance activities of the Na-
tional Institutes of Health with respect to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.055 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7987
September 25, 2019
research on autism spectrum disorder and
enhance programs relating to autism, and
for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 38 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, September 26, 2019, at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1595, the
SAFE Banking Act of 2019, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2269. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter on the
approved retirement of Lieutenant General
Steven M. Shepro, United States Air Force,
and his advancement to the grade of lieuten-
ant general on the retired list, pursuant to 10
U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112
(as amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec.
502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
2270. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter on the
approved retirement of Vice Admiral Clinton
F. Faison III, United States Navy, and his
advancement to the grade of vice admiral on
the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
2271. A letter from the Director, Naval Re-
actors, transmitting the Executive Summary
of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program’s
latest reports on environmental monitoring
and radioactive waste disposal, radiation ex-
posure, and occupational safety and health;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
2272. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final regulations — Student Assist-
ance General Provisions and Federal Family
Education Loan Program [Docket ID: ED-
2018-OPE-0027] (RIN: 1840-AD26) received Sep-
tember 17, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
2273. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Adjustment of Controls for Lower
Performing Radar and Continued Temporary
Modification of Category XI of the United
States Munitions List [Public Notice: 10779]
(RIN: 1400-AE88) received September 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
2274. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment’s Freedom of Information Act 2018
Litigation and Compliance Report, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(F)(ii)(II); Public Law 89-
554, Sec. 5(ii)(II) (as added by Public Law 110-
175, Sec. 5); (121 Stat. 2526); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
2275. A letter from the Director, Office
Congressional Affairs, Federal Election Com-
mission, transmitting the Commission’s re-
port stating that it did not complete or ini-
tiate competitive sourcing for conversion of
an agency activity to contractors for the
prior fiscal year, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 501
note; Public Law 108-199, Sec. 647(b); (118
Stat. 361); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
2276. A letter from the Secretary of the
Board of Governors, U.S. Postal Service,
transmitting the Service’s report on postal
officers and employees who received total
compensation in calendar year 2018, pursuant
to 39 U.S.C. 3686(c); Public Law 109-435, Sec.
506; (120 Stat. 3236); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
2277. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment’s Uniformed and Overseas Citizens
Absentee Voting Act Annual Report to Con-
gress, 2018, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20307(b);
Public Law 99-410, Sec. 105(b) (as amended by
Public Law 111-84, Sec. 587(2)); (123 Stat.
2333); to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
2278. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Northern Rockfish in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 180713633-9174-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG974) received September 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
2279. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Using Trawl Gear in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands Management
Area [Docket No.: 180713633-9174-02] (RIN:
0648-XG936) received September 10, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
2280. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pollock in Statis-
tical Area 610 in the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XG935) re-
ceived September 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2281. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Economic Ex-
clusive Zone Off Alaska; Deep-Water Species
Fishery by Vessels Using Trawl Gear in the
Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG894) received September 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
2282. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pollock in Statis-
tical Area 620 in the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XG911) re-
ceived September 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2283. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pollock in Statis-
tical Area 610 in the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XG916) re-
ceived September 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2284. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Using Trawl Gear in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands Management
Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02] (RIN:
0648-XG901) received September 10, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
2285. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Hook-
and-Line Catcher/Processors in the Western
Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG716) received September 10, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2286. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Sablefish Managed Under the In-
dividual Fishing Quota Program [Docket
No.: 180713633-9174-02 and 180831813-9170-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG81) received September 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2287. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pollock in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands [Docket No.:
180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XG847) received
September 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2288. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the PRO
IP Act FY 2018 report, pursuant to 34 U.S.C.
30106(a); Public Law 110-403, Sec. 404(a); (122
Stat. 4274); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
2289. A letter from the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, transmitting a deter-
mination in Tiwari v. Shanahan, No. 17-cv-
242 (W.D. Wash.), pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
530D(a)(1); Public Law 107-273, Sec. 202(a);
(116 Stat. 1771); to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
2290. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting notification that during Fiscal Year 2017
and 2018 no payments were made from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.053 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7988 September 25, 2019
Victims Compensation Fund, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 3525(b); Public Law 98-473, Sec. 1208;
(98 Stat. 2162); to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
2291. A letter from the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, transmitting a deter-
mination of the United States Court of Ap-
peals for the Eighth Circuit concerning
United States v. Solis, 915 F.3d 1172 (8th Cir.
2019), pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 530D(a)(1); Public
Law 107-273, Sec. 202(a); (116 Stat. 1771); to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
2292. A letter from the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, transmitting a deter-
mination of the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania con-
cerning Miller v. Barr, No.2:17-cv-2627 (E.D.
Pa., filed Feb. 22, 2019), pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
530D(a)(1); Public Law 107-273, Sec. 202(a);
(116 Stat. 1771); to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
2293. A letter from the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, transmitting a deci-
sion of the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan of United
States v. Jumana Nagarwala et al., No. 17-cr-
20274 (E.D. Mich. Nov. 20, 2018), pursuant to
28 U.S.C. 530D(a)(1); Public Law 107-273, Sec.
202(a); (116 Stat. 1771); to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
2294. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting the Department’s reports titled, ‘‘Law
Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness
Act: Report to Congress’’ and ‘‘Law Enforce-
ment Mental Health and Wellness Programs:
Eleven Case Studies‘‘, pursuant to 34 U.S.C.
10101 note; Public Law 115-113, Sec. 2(a); (131
Stat. 2276) and 34 U.S.C. 10101 note; Public
Law 115-113, Sec. 2(b); (131 Stat. 2276); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
2295. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the report
on the Administration of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938, as amended, for the
six months ending June 30, 2018, pursuant to
22 U.S.C. 621; June 8, 1938, ch. 327, Sec. 11 (as
amended by Public Law 104-65, Sec. 19); (109
Stat. 704); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
2296. A letter from the Secretary, Judicial
Conference of the United States, transmit-
ting for consideration of a proposed bill ti-
tled, ‘‘Criminal Judicial Administration Act
of 2019’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
2297. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting a consid-
eration for a legislative proposal that would
add a jurisdictional element tied to the Com-
merce Clause to the statute criminalizing fe-
male genital mutilation; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
2298. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Los An-
geles Fleet Week, San Pedro, California
[Docket Number: USCG-2019-0590] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received September 10, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2299. A letter from the Chief, Regulatory
Development, Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration, Department of Transpor-
tation, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Hours of Service of Drivers-Restart
provisions [Docket No.: FMCSA-2004-19608]
(RIN: 2126-AC30) September 13, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2300. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — IFR Altitudes; Miscella-
neous Amendments [Docket No.: 31273;
Amdt. No.: 548] received September 12, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2301. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of the Class
D Airspace; New Iberia, LA [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0344; Airspace Docket No.: 19-ASW-
7] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received September 12,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2302. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0023; Product Identifier
2018-NM-145-AD; Amendment 39-19700; AD
2019-15-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Sep-
tember 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2303. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0327; Product Identifier 2019-
NM-021-AD; Amendment 39-19727; AD 2019-17-
07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received September 12,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2304. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0672; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
100-AD; Amendment 39-19724; AD 2019-17-04]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received September 12, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2305. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; International Aero Engines AG Tur-
bofan Engines [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0268;
Product Identifier 2019-NE-08-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19728; AD 2019-18-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received September 12, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2306. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0403; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
012-AD; Amendment 39-19723; AD 2019-17-03]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received September 12, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2307. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Civil works, Department of the Army, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the
Chickamauga Lock Replacement, Hamilton
County, TN, Post Authorization Change Re-
port of July 2018; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2308. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting a report required by Secs. 107 and 502 of
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of
1978, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1862(c); Public
Law 95-511, Sec. 502(c) (as added by Public
Law 109-177, Sec. 106(h)(3)); (120 Stat. 200) and
18 U.S.C. 3511 note; Public Law 109-177, Sec.
118(c)(1) (as amended by Public Law 114-23,
Sec. 602(c)); (129 Stat. 294); jointly to the
Committees on the Judiciary and Intel-
ligence (Permanent Select).
2309. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting a
draft of a bill to authorize funds for major
medical facility projects and leases for FY
2020 and medical facility leases originally re-
quested in FY 2019; jointly to the Commit-
tees on Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Serv-
ices.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 591. Resolution providing
for consideration of the joint resolution (S.J.
Res. 54) relating to a national emergency de-
clared by the President on February 15, 2019
(Rept. 116–218). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. HAR-
RIS):
H.R. 4484. A bill to require short-term lim-
ited duration insurance issuers to renew or
continue in force such insurance coverage at
the option of the enrollees, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PENCE (for himself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 4485. A bill to establish a public build-
ings public-private partnership pilot pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself, Mr.
LUJÁN, and Ms. CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 4486. A bill to require the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Communications
and Information to establish a State Digital
Equity Capacity Grant Program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. LONG,
and Mr. SCHRADER):
H.R. 4487. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to define the
term natural cheese; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself and
Mr. WALKER):
H.R. 4488. A bill to develop and implement
national standards for the use of solitary
confinement in correctional facilities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas (for herself,
Mr. FORTENBERRY, and Ms. BASS):
H.R. 4489. A bill to prohibit unfair and de-
ceptive advertising of rates for hotel rooms
and other places of short-term lodging; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25SE7.000 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7989
September 25, 2019
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 4490. A bill to require the Inspector
General, Department of Justice, to submit a
report to the Congress on the number of fire-
arm transaction denials issued by the Na-
tional Instant Criminal Background Check
System that are referred to the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
for investigation, the number of prosecutions
resulting from such investigations, and the
number of firearms recovered by the Bureau
in cases in which such a denial was issued
after the firearm was transferred; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI (for himself and
Mr. CLEAVER):
H.R. 4491. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require shareholder
authorization before a public company may
make certain political expenditures, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. ESTES, and Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia):
H.R. 4492. A bill to protect the investment
choices of investors in the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4493. A bill to provide a short-term
disability insurance program for Federal em-
ployees for disabilities that are not work-re-
lated, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. KIND, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, and Mr. HUIZENGA):
H.R. 4494. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to reissue a final rule relating to
listing of the gray wolf in the Western Great
Lakes under the Endangered Species Act of
1973, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. CAL-
VERT, Mr. AGUILAR, and Mr. COOK):
H.R. 4495. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, acting
through the Director of the Indian Health
Service, to acquire private land to facilitate
access to the Desert Sage Youth Wellness
Center in Hemet, California, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Mr. DUNN, Mr. RICE of South
Carolina, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
YOUNG, Mrs. ROBY, and Mr. HARDER
of California):
H.R. 4496. A bill to extend indemnity for
wildfires and hurricanes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Ms. SHALALA (for herself, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. MOORE, and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 4497. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to make improvements to
the Federal Student Aid Office, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. SIRES (for himself, Mr. YOHO,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. PALLONE, and Mr.
PASCRELL):
H.R. 4498. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to encourage Canadian
tourism to the United States; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. KILMER, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. CARSON of In-
diana, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. CASE, Mr.
TAKANO, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. BEYER, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Ms. PORTER, Mr. NEGUSE, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, and Mr.
MORELLE):
H. Res. 589. A resolution expressing the
need for immediate climate action in re-
sponse to the United Nations Intergovern-
mental Panel on Climate Change Special Re-
port on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a
Changing Climate; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committees on Foreign Affairs, Natural Re-
sources, and Science, Space, and Technology,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCCARTHY:
H. Res. 590. A resolution raising a question
of the privileges of the House.
By Mr. BERA (for himself, Mr. SCHIFF,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. BURGESS, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. KATKO, and Ms.
SCHRIER):
H. Res. 592. A resolution recognizing the
anniversary of the eradication of smallpox
and the importance of vaccination in the
United States and worldwide; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CURTIS (for himself, Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. TIPTON, and Mr.
STIVERS):
H. Res. 593. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the whistleblower complaint received on Au-
gust 12, 2019, by the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community should be trans-
mitted immediately to the Select Committee
on Intelligence of the Senate and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives; to the Committee
on Intelligence (Permanent Select).
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GARCÍA
of Illinois, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RUSH, Ms. WILD,
Mr. POCAN, and Mr. HUFFMAN):
H. Res. 594. A resolution expressing pro-
found concern about threats to human
rights, the rule of law, democracy, and the
environment in Brazil; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Financial Services, and the Judi-
ciary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for him-
self, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
BERA, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. PALLONE, and
Mrs. LAWRENCE):
H. Res. 595. A resolution commemorating
the 150th anniversary of the birth of
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 4484.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. PENCE:
H.R. 4485.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 1 (relating
to providing for the general welfare of the
United States) and Clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress) and clause 17 (relating to authority
over the district as the seat of government),
and Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (relating
to the power of Congress to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations re-
specting the territory or other property be-
longing to the United States).
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 4486.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 4487.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 4488.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1 Sec.
8 Cl. 18).
Further, this statement of constitutional
authority is made for the sole purpose of
compliance with clause 7 of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and
shall have no bearing on judicial review of
the accompanying bill.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 4489.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 4490.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: To regulate
commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes; and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25SE7.100 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7990 September 25, 2019
States or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI:
H.R. 4491.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 4492.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4493.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PETERSON:
H.R. 4494.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4495.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 4496.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 4497.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts,
and Excises, to pay the Debts, and provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare
of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 4498.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to clause 3(d) (1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee finds the authority for this
legislation in article I, section 8 of the Con-
stitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. EVANS, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
NORCROSS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. KILDEE, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 88: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 94: Mr. KENNEDY and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 132: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 333: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 444: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 510: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Ms.
SCHRIER, and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 535: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 548: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 553: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 587: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 647: Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. STAUBER, and
Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 808: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 836: Mr. LIPINSKI and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas.
H.R. 884: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 912: Mr. SIRES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 925: Mr. LARSEN of Washington and
Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 955: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 959: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 960: Mr. KIM, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr.
NORMAN.
H.R. 1024: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 1034: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 1043: Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr.
ZELDIN, and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 1098: Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 1139: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1154: Mr. CRIST and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1173: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1175: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1185: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1194: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1210: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1329: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1345: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1349: Mr. PANETTA and Mr.
BALDERSON.
H.R. 1350: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1374: Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr. CARTER
of Georgia.
H.R. 1375: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1434: Mrs. WAGNER and Mr. WEBSTER
of Florida.
H.R. 1530: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 1556: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1557: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1661: Mr. MASSIE and Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 1683: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1695: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1709: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 1715: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1747: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 1749: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1753: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 1754: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. DA-
VIDSON of Ohio, Mr. POSEY, and Mrs. LAW-
RENCE.
H.R. 1766: Mr. LAMB, Mr. CHABOT, and Mr.
COOK.
H.R. 1767: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1869: Mr. SIRES, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
VEASEY, and Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 1954: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1968: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 1975: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 1981: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1996: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 2000: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 2089: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2148: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2214: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Mr.
COX of California.
H.R. 2215: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 2225: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 2236: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 2256: Mr. HIMES and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 2321: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2382: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 2398: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2420: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. GOTTHEIMER,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. HOULAHAN, and Mr. SCHNEI-
DER.
H.R. 2423: Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
WALDEN, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Miss RICE of New
York, Mrs. AXNE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. NADLER, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee,
Ms. WILD, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, Mr. BRINDISI, Mrs.
BEATTY, and Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2426: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GOODEN, Ms.
CRAIG, and Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2435: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2460: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2482: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr. LAWSON
of Florida.
H.R. 2487: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2496: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 2571: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 2599: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2681: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2711: Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. NADLER, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2739: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 2771: Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 2846: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
CUELLAR, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2895: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2903: Mr. BARR and Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 2982: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2993: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 3001: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 3115: Mr. YOUNG, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. SARBANES, and
Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 3157: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3165: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 3182: Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms. FOXX of
North Carolina, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr.
BACON.
H.R. 3218: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3222: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3272: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 3280: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3289: Mr. MARCHANT and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 3396: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 3451: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 3452: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 3463: Mr. CONNOLLY and Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas.
H.R. 3473: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3495: Mr. SPANO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
CRAIG, Mr. KILMER, Mrs. MILLER, and Mr.
HOLDING.
H.R. 3555: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 3570: Ms. LOFGREN and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3636: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3637: Ms. NORTON and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 3654: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3655: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 3662: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3665: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 3749: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 3764: Mr. TRONE, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. LAMB, and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3798: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 3799: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 3814: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 3819: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3833: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 3851: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mrs. LEE of
Nevada.
H.R. 3930: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 3932: Mr. ROUZER, Ms. TITUS, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. WILD, Ms. NORTON, Ms. STEFANIK,
and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3948: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3951: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3956: Mr. COLE and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3968: Mr. YOHO, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. DUNN, Mr. POSEY, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
and Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 3972: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 3975: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 4078: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 4107: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 4165: Mr. VELA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.029 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7991
September 25, 2019
H.R. 4175: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4193: Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. ENGEL, and Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4236: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 4270: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 4272: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 4295: Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 4300: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4301: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 4307: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4339: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 4346: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4355: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4370: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4387: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 4390: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4404: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4405: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. EVANS, and
Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4416: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 4428: Ms. HILL of California, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4429: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 4435: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 4446: Mr. MAST and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 4460: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Con. Res. 58: Mr. BUCSHON.
H. Res. 49: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 189: Mr. KIM, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
HARDER of California, and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H. Res. 234: Ms. ESHOO.
H. Res. 323: Mr. BRINDISI.
H. Res. 384: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 517: Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. HARDER of
California, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
SENSENBRENNER, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
MCHENRY, Mr. LANGEVIN, and Mr. GOODEN.
H. Res. 543: Mr. ENGEL.
H. Res. 552: Mr. SHERMAN.
H. Res. 560: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Mr. LEWIS, and Ms. MOORE.
H. Res. 565: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. AMODEI,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. COSTA,
Mr. KEATING, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. MITCH-
ELL.
H. Res. 576: Ms. SPEIER and Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 578: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 580: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H. Res. 587: Mr. CROW and Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE7.044 H25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5673
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2019 No. 155
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, thank You for Your
sanctifying truth. Use our lawmakers
to live Your truth for the glory of Your
Name. May Your truth keep them from
the things that can pollute their lives
and dishonor You.
Lord, forgive us when we are reluc-
tant to submit to You with our bodies,
minds, and spirits. Make us all vessels
of honor prepared for every good work.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to address the Sen-
ate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
TRADE AGREEMENT
Mr. GRASSLEY. We are getting to-
ward the end of the year, and one of
the issues I would like to get done—
which has to go through the House of
Representatives first—is the U.S.-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement. In regard to
that agreement’s helping agriculture, I
want to start by laying out the fact
that there is a lot of anxiety in agricul-
tural America.
Even though the harvest is about to
start across Iowa, we had a really dif-
ficult, tough spring getting the crops
in. There is a crop to be harvested,
however, and farmers will now be doing
that job. They hope they can cover
their costs. And while they are doing
that, they are thinking about putting
in next year’s crop.
Passing the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement would inject more certainty
into the plans that the farmers have
about this year’s harvest and the plans
they have for next year’s crop. Passage
of that would signal to the world that
we here in the Congress are very seri-
ous about passing new, modern trade
arrangements.
Yet we are running out of calendar
days in 2019. Congress must step up and
deliver for our hard-working farmers,
as well as workers in America and
small business in America and, in a
sense, by getting this agreement
passed, helping all of America. The
time for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement is now.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday evening, Speaker PELOSI an-
nounced that the House of Representa-
tives will begin what she called ‘‘an of-
ficial impeachment inquiry.’’ But, real-
ly, we know that House Democrats
have been indulging their impeach-
ment obsession for nearly 3 years
now—a never-ending impeachment pa-
rade in search of a rationale.
The very day President Trump was
inaugurated, the Washington Post ran
a news story with this headline: ‘‘The
campaign to impeach President Trump
has begun.’’ That was the day of his in-
auguration. Later that year, there
were articles of impeachment intro-
duced over the President’s language.
So clearly, this has been an ongoing
project for House Democrats since
practically the moment that Secretary
Clinton lost the election.
For months, Democrats insisted that
Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation
or the work of the Senate Intelligence
Committee would prove their theories
about a conspiracy between the Trump
campaign and Russia. It didn’t happen.
The facts disappointed them, but the
impeachment parade kept marching
along.
Yesterday, even though a bipartisan
committee investigation into the new
whistleblower allegations is under-
way—and just hours after the Presi-
dent offered to publicize the details of
his phone call with the President of
Ukraine—the dam finally broke.
Speaker PELOSI couldn’t hold back the
far left any longer. Before any of us
even had the facts in hand, she caved
to the left and announced an impeach-
ment inquiry.
If this all sounds familiar, that is be-
cause at the time—literally, 1 week
ago—the same Democrats were shout-
ing about impeaching Justice
Kavanaugh. That rush to judgment was
based on a sketchy story in a major
newspaper that promptly had to pub-
lish an enormous correction. But 1
week later, here they go again, threat-
ening impeachment without the facts
in hand.
Senate Republicans support the es-
tablished proper procedures for consid-
ering this whistleblower report. In the
meantime, while our friends across the
Capitol rush to judgment and dive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.000 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5674 September 25, 2019
deeper into their nearly 3-year-old im-
peachment addiction, we will stay fo-
cused on the American people’s busi-
ness.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, ear-
lier this year, President Trump led the
Federal Government to recognize our
insecure southern border for what it is:
a national emergency, a humanitarian
and security crisis. Congress had heard
plea after plea for more border security
funding. We heard from senior leaders
and career Border Patrol officers. We
heard about all the surging illegal
crossings, the unprecedented numbers
of family units, and the strain on our
facilities.
Yet Washington Democrats decided
that giving this very real crisis the re-
sources it required might anger the far
left, which wants them to oppose Presi-
dent Trump at any cost. So the Presi-
dent tapped into a longstanding, 40-
plus-year-old Presidential authority
and reprogrammed a narrow set of
funds to address the urgent crisis.
I have never been shy about my com-
mitment to the institution of Congress
and its unique authorities, not the
least being the appropriation of tax-
payer dollars. But we are talking about
40-plus-year-old Presidential authori-
ties in current law. Unlike President
Obama, who vaguely shrugged off the
Federal Code when he established his
DACA policy, President Trump’s deci-
sion was squarely within existing law.
Nevertheless, our Democratic col-
leagues made the Senate vote to undo
the President’s declaration back in
March. Their resolution fell far short
of earning a veto-proof majority.
Now, still unwilling to work with the
President and Republicans on a long-
term bipartisan solution for border se-
curity, Senate Democrats are making
us repeat the same show vote again.
I would urge all colleagues to once
again vote for border security and vote
against the Democrats’ resolution
when it comes up later today.
I understand the Democratic leader-
ship would like to invent a false choice
between border security and other im-
portant military construction projects.
They want to tell the American people
that we can either have border security
or these other important projects, but
for some reason, we can’t have both.
There are two problems to that argu-
ment:
Problem No. 1 is that it is a false
choice of Democrats’ own invention.
The only reason there could be any
tradeoff between border security and
these other priorities is their refusal to
support commonsense border security.
The only reason there is any tradeoff is
that Democrats have refused to work
with the President.
Problem No. 2 of their argument is
that Congress has the full power to en-
sure that all of the military construc-
tion projects are fully funded. Work is
ongoing on appropriations and the
NDAA. It would be easy to ensure that
these projects get all of the money
they need.
Later today, the Senate will vote on
exactly that. We will vote on several
motions to instruct our NDAA con-
ferees. One of those motions will be a
Republican proposal that we insist on
fully funding these projects for our own
servicemembers.
With the Kentuckians I represent,
this is pretty simple. Kentuckians
want our Nation to have a secure
southern border. Kentuckians want full
funding for the middle school at Fort
Campbell—funding they have been
waiting on for years, which is funding
I proudly secured in the first place.
Kentuckians know perfectly well that
with everything the United States of
America spends money on, there is no
earthly reason the Democrats should
force us to have one or the other. They
don’t want to be used as pawns in the
Democrats’ political games.
Even my Democratic colleagues who
don’t support the administration’s bor-
der security agenda should not take
out their frustrations on our Armed
Forces. Every single Member of this
body should be able to support the
measure to fully fund military con-
struction. I would urge all of my col-
leagues to vote yes on that motion
later today.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will be
in a period of morning business until
10:30 a.m., with Senators permitted to
speak therein for up to 10 minutes
each.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 450.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Eugene Scalia,
of Virginia, to be Secretary of Labor.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of Labor.
Lamar Alexander, Mike Braun, Pat Rob-
erts, John Boozman, John Thune,
Johnny Isakson, Mike Crapo, John
Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Mike
Rounds, Cory Gardner, Steve Daines,
Tim Scott, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Barrasso, Jerry Moran, Mitch McCon-
nell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
RELATING TO A NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY DECLARED BY THE
PRESIDENT ON FEBRUARY 15,
2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume legislative session.
S.J. Res. 54 is discharged, and the
Senate will proceed to the consider-
ation of the joint resolution, which the
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 54) relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
Thereupon, the Committee on Armed
Services was discharged, and the Sen-
ate proceeded to consider the joint res-
olution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota is recognized.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, readers
of Forbes might have seen an article
earlier this month entitled ‘‘Russian
Navy To Be First To Field Hypersonic
Cruise Missiles on Submarines.’’ Arti-
cles like this are a timely reminder of
the ever-present need to invest in our
military.
It can be easy to take U.S. military
superiority for granted, but our mili-
tary preeminence did not come out of
nowhere. Our military is strong as a re-
sult of sustained investment and com-
mitment. If we don’t stay committed
to maintaining our military strength
and advantage, we will lose them.
Meanwhile, as the Forbes article re-
minds us, other countries are busy in-
vesting in their militaries. Great pow-
ers with aggressive military tendencies
are building up their armed forces and
investing in the weapons and equip-
ment of the future. We need to ensure
that our military is not falling behind.
Later today, we will vote on addi-
tional measures related to the National
Defense Authorization Act—legislation
that we take up every year to author-
ize funding for our military and our na-
tional defense. Both the House and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.001 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5675
September 25, 2019
Senate passed versions of this legisla-
tion this summer. Now Members from
both Houses are working on reconciling
the House and Senate versions of the
bill. The Senate-passed National De-
fense Authorization Act was a strong
bill, and I hope the final bill will look
a lot like it.
Right now, our military is rebuilding
after years of underfunding and the
strains of the global War on Terror.
In November 2018, the bipartisan Na-
tional Defense Strategy Commission
released a report warning that our
readiness had eroded to the point
where we might struggle to win a war
against a major power like Russia or
China, and the Commission noted that
we would be especially vulnerable if we
were ever called on to fight a war on
two fronts.
Here in the Senate, Members of both
parties have been working together to
address the military’s rebuilding needs
and ensure that we are prepared to
meet any threat.
The bipartisan National Defense Au-
thorization Act that we passed in the
Senate in June authorizes funding for
our military’s current needs and for
the equipment and technology of the
future. It invests in ships, combat vehi-
cles, and planes—including develop-
ment of the future B–21 bomber, which
will be based at Ellsworth Air Force
Base in my home State of South Da-
kota—and continued procurement of
the F–35 Joint Strike Fighter, which I
hope will someday soon be based at Joe
Foss Field in Sioux Falls. It authorizes
funding for research and development
and advanced technology. It authorizes
funds to modernize our nuclear arsenal
to maximize our deterrence capabili-
ties. It focuses on ensuring that we are
equipped to meet threats on new
fronts, including in the space and cyber
domains.
Of course, while up-to-date weapons,
equipment, and technology are essen-
tial, the greatest strength of our mili-
tary is our men and women in uniform.
Both the Senate and House versions of
the National Defense Authorization
Act authorize a 3.1-percent pay in-
crease for our troops—the largest in-
crease in a decade. This is not only
something our troops have earned, it is
also an important way to retain troops
in our All-Volunteer Force when the
economy is as strong as it is. Both the
House and Senate bills also focus on
addressing the recent significant
health and safety issues faced by many
families with private on-base housing.
I hope House and Senate conferees
will produce a strong bill and that both
Houses will be able to pass this legisla-
tion in the near future.
In a 1793 address to Congress, Presi-
dent George Washington noted:
If we desire to avoid insult, we must be
able to repel it; if we desire to secure peace,
one of the most powerful instruments of our
rising prosperity, it must be known that we
are at all times ready for war.
The surest way of preserving peace is
to be strong militarily. Weakness is a
tempting target for aggressive regimes
and evil men. Strength, on the other
hand, can and does restrain those who
might otherwise pursue war with the
United States or our allies. Maintain-
ing our military strength helps ensure
the security of our country and her in-
habitants, and it also helps promote
peace around the world.
We can’t change the fact that there
will always be bad actors who will
threaten our freedom and security, but
we can ensure that we are always pre-
pared to meet any threat.
I look forward to passing a strong
National Defense Authorization Act in
the very near future.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night, Speaker NANCY PELOSI an-
nounced that the House of Representa-
tives would begin a formal impeach-
ment inquiry of President Trump. I
have spoken to her many times over
the past few days. I know she did not
make this decision lightly and took no
pleasure in making it. It is her care-
fully considered judgment that it is
now in the best interest of our country
and our Constitution to proceed with
an impeachment inquiry.
I strongly support Speaker PELOSI’s
decision. If we don’t reckon with Presi-
dent Trump’s persistent trans-
gressions, the very foundation of this
great Republic will be at risk. The
President kept pushing and pushing
and pushing the constitutional enve-
lope. Finally, the President’s conduct
made an impeachment inquiry un-
avoidable.
The events of recent days have
brought sharply into focus the question
of whether President Trump abused the
powers of his office and betrayed the
public trust for personal political gain.
In open defiance of the law, his admin-
istration has thus far sought to block
the transmission of an official whistle-
blower complaint to Congress. The na-
ture of that whistleblower complaint
has been deemed both credible and ur-
gent by one of President Trump’s own
senior-level appointees—the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
According to public reports, this
complaint may detail how the Presi-
dent of the United States corrupted
America’s foreign policy by pressuring
the leader of a foreign nation to dam-
age a leading political rival—an offense
the President may have committed,
whether or not there was an explicit
quid pro quo. The President went on to
admit on live television that he spoke
to the President of Ukraine about his
political rival and about military aid
to the country.
The timeline of events that led to the
whistleblower complaint must be scru-
tinized. The nature of President
Trump’s communications with Presi-
dent Putin, as well as Ukrainian Presi-
dent Zelensky, should be requested and
provided, with special focus on the
phone call that took place with Mr.
Putin a few days after the Zelensky
call on July 25.
The timing of the departures of the
U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine and the
former Director of National Intel-
ligence and his Principal Deputy must
be investigated, as well as the move-
ments of President Trump’s personal
attorney, Rudy Giuliani, the cor-
respondence between him and the
White House, and his interactions with
foreign governments. We must learn
what actions President Trump or his
aides took to withhold congressionally
directed security aid to Ukraine and
why and more besides.
The answers to these questions and
others can be pursued by the House
committees involved in the impeach-
ment inquiry, and that is precisely
what the inquiry is for. The release of
the transcript of one of President
Trump’s calls with President Zelensky
that just came out will not assuage our
concerns or the public’s concerns.
Based on early reports, it may height-
en them. We must remember that the
President was reported to have had
several calls with President Zelensky
over the summer, and his administra-
tion has a well-earned reputation for
dishonesty, altered facts, and incom-
plete disclosure in public releases.
We need to see the complete,
unredacted whistleblower complaint
without further delay. The whistle-
blower must be allowed to testify with-
out fear of intimidation, and then we
must pursue the many relevant ave-
nues of inquiry that I just described.
Yesterday afternoon, the entire Sen-
ate—all 47 Democrats and 53 Repub-
licans—agreed to my resolution calling
for the whistleblower complaint to be
transmitted immediately to Congress—
a reflection of the seriousness with
which these events are viewed on both
sides of the aisle. This was unexpected.
In the past, when we have asked to
look into President Trump, our Repub-
lican colleagues have stonewalled. But
to their credit, they realized the seri-
ousness of this situation and unani-
mously agreed to support our resolu-
tion. I hope, I pray it is a harbinger of
things to come, where we can look at
the facts, not the politics, and come to
conclusions because, without doubt,
the White House and the President’s
congressional allies will rush to call
this effort a partisan witch hunt no
matter how serious the allegations or
how evenhanded the inquiry. I would
remind everyone that just yesterday,
every Senate Republican agreed that
the White House’s decision to block the
whistleblower complaint from Congress
was wrong. There was unanimous, bi-
partisan agreement in the Senate on
that point. Not a single Senator ob-
jected. Let me be clear, nonetheless,
because I know accusations of par-
tisanship are already being written.
This inquiry was not taken up for par-
tisan reasons, and it does not prejudge
an outcome.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.005 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5676 September 25, 2019
Our Framers, in their wisdom, as-
signed to one Chamber of Congress the
right to accuse and to the other the
right to judge. The House of Represent-
atives will investigate and determine
whether sufficient evidence exists to
accuse the President of an impeachable
offense or impeachable offenses. If it
comes to that, the Senate will be the
scene of the trial, Senators the jurors.
We must take our responsibility with
the utmost gravity. Our Framers—not
trusting our liberty to one branch of
government alone, afraid of the ever-
present danger of tyranny of an over-
reaching Executive—provided a remedy
to Congress should the Executive at-
tempt to subvert or violate the Con-
stitution of the United States.
We are not yet at the stage where
any judgments can be made one way or
the other, but I remind my colleagues
today that if the day should come when
we are called upon to carry out our
constitutional duty, history will judge
whether we did so faithfully or not.
History will judge if each of us acted as
a solemn juror of democracy, who
placed fidelity to the Constitution and
our system of government above the
narrow considerations of partisan poli-
tics.
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY
Mr. President, on another issue, not
directly related but with the same
cause, with the same worry, and with
the same concern, an overreaching Ex-
ecutive—the emergency declaration.
The commencing of the impeachment
inquiry in the House, while significant,
is not the only significant action Con-
gress will take today, nor is it the only
action dealing with the President’s
overreach.
Today the Senate will vote on Presi-
dent Trump’s national emergency dec-
laration, which he is using to steal
money from our military in order to
fund a border wall. Rather than accept
the reality that a bipartisan majority
has repeatedly rejected this idea, and
after dragging the country through the
longest government shutdown in Amer-
ican history when he didn’t get his
way, President Trump deliberately cir-
cumvented Congress.
Democrats universally opposed the
President’s outrageous decision to de-
clare a national emergency, so let me
direct my remarks this morning to my
Republican colleagues.
There are two crucial reasons for my
Republican colleagues to vote to termi-
nate this emergency.
First, the vote today is the surest
and likely the only way to restore
funding the President has stolen from
our troops and military projects across
the country. President Trump prom-
ised Mexico would pay for the wall, not
American taxpayers, and certainly not
the military—the men and women and
their families involved in keeping our
Nation secure. President Trump broke
that promise, and now over 120 mili-
tary projects hang in the balance: a
middle school for military families in
Kentucky, medical facilities in North
Carolina, a hurricane relief project in
Florida, an Air Force Base in Colorado,
a fire station in South Carolina, and
construction projects in Indiana, Lou-
isiana, Georgia, and more. These were
all carefully considered by the military
and Department of Defense and put in
the budget because they were very
much needed. These are not frivolous
projects at all. A vote for the President
today is a vote in favor of cutting fund-
ing for our military and slashing sup-
port for critical military projects in
red States as well as blue.
Second, and maybe even more impor-
tantly, my Republican colleagues
should vote to terminate the emer-
gency declaration today on constitu-
tional grounds. Under the Constitu-
tion, the power of the purse lies with
Congress not the President. By declar-
ing a national emergency, the Presi-
dent has trampled on that authority
and is violating the constitutional sep-
aration of powers. We know what an
emergency is—soldiers at risk, the risk
of war. Of course, the President should
have flexibility then but not on a pol-
icy decision where there is great dis-
pute in the Congress and in the country
and when the President lost in the leg-
islative battle that ensued. By voting
to endorse the President’s emergency—
this expansive and political stretching
of the word ‘‘emergency’’ in a way it
has never been stretched before—Re-
publican Senators will set a dangerous
precedent that could embolden not just
this President but future Presidents to
ignore congressional authority.
So today my Republican colleagues
face a choice of whether or not to de-
fend our troops, whether or not to de-
fend their States, whether or not to de-
fend this Chamber’s undeniable con-
stitutional powers.
Last time we held this vote, 12 Re-
publican colleagues joined us in voting
to undo the emergency. I hope more do
so this time because this isn’t about
Republicans and Democrats. We don’t
want any President, Democratic or Re-
publican, to overreach and use the
word ‘‘emergency’’ to overcome con-
gressional will. This is about checks
and balances, not about Republicans
and Democrats, and the need for the
Senate to rein in an out-of-control Ex-
ecutive.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President,
yesterday evening I had the oppor-
tunity to invite 100,000 of our fellow
Tennesseans to join me in a telephone
townhall. We have found this is some-
thing Tennesseans like. Instead of hav-
ing to drive to a location, they are able
to just pick up the phone, and as they
are doing homework with children or
preparing dinner, they are able to jump
on the phone and talk about issues that
are important to them.
We covered a wide range of topics
yesterday evening. We talked about nu-
clear power and gun rights and
healthcare for our veterans. We even
talked a little bit about an invasive
fish species, Asian carp, and how that
is affecting our beautiful rivers.
There was one thing that continued
to come out through the course of this
telephone townhall, and I bet you can
guess what the topic was that people
continued to talk about.
Now, bear in mind that Tennesseans
are, by and large, very dismissive of
what I call the DC shining object story
of the day. Tennesseans are much more
interested in the story of their lives,
but yesterday’s news—that breathless
race to make news—really had Ten-
nesseans talking.
Yesterday, House Democrats, sup-
ported by their friends in the Senate,
gathered to announce their intention
to begin formal impeachment inquiries
against President Donald Trump. As
you can imagine, this struck a chord
with my fellow Tennesseans. They may
be far outside the beltway bubble, but
they have been keeping a close eye on
what the Democrats have been up to
for the past 3 years when it comes to
President Donald Trump.
Let me tell you, they are not very
impressed with what has been hap-
pening. From their perspective, yester-
day’s announcement was the culmina-
tion of a 3-year witch hunt born of a
grudge they have been holding against
the President since their chosen can-
didate failed to win the 2016 election.
Before the President had taken his
oath of office—bear in mind, he was
President-elect at that time—in De-
cember of 2016, Vanity Fair published
an article entitled ‘‘Democrats are
Paving the Way to Impeach Donald
Trump.’’ Believe it or not, this was not
just click bait. This was a published ar-
ticle in a major magazine in December
2016.
The article details a bill Senate
Democrats wanted to use to exploit al-
legations of conflicts of interest be-
tween President-Elect Trump’s busi-
ness dealings and President Trump’s
duties as President. Bear in mind, the
bill was tailor-made to transform con-
flict allegations into impeachable
crimes. And bear in mind, this was con-
ceived before President Trump became
President Trump. He was still Presi-
dent-elect. He had not been sworn into
office, and they were already writing
legislation that would move to im-
peachment. It was the beginning of
their mission toward impeachment,
even if they had to fabricate the means
to get there.
Let me tell you, they were deter-
mined to make it happen. The proof is
in black and white. In 2017, a group of
House Democrats failed to muster
enough political will within their own
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.007 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5677
September 25, 2019
party to support a resolution to im-
peach President Trump. The same ef-
fort failed again in 2018, and it failed
again in 2019. Their efforts to use the
Mueller report to whip the Nation into
an impeachment frenzy failed. How
frustrating that must have been for a
party and a movement that all but
promised they would find a way to im-
peach the President because they abso-
lutely could not believe he won that
election in 2016.
It is important to remember and to
note the American people chose Presi-
dent Trump and not the Democratic
candidate. That didn’t matter. Demo-
crats vowed to take him down anyway.
They were going to make him pay a
very heavy price by making him the
victim of a campaign of personal de-
struction.
Now, conveniently, a year before the
election, here they go again. They are
indicating they think they have
cracked the case.
In November 2018, House Speaker
NANCY PELOSI gave a statement to the
Associated Press saying: ‘‘We shouldn’t
impeach the president for political rea-
sons and we shouldn’t not impeach the
president for political reasons.’’
Let me tell you, for the West Ten-
nesseans participating in the telephone
townhall I mentioned earlier, it was
painfully obvious that congressional
Democrats had finally given up and
embraced politics as usual. They see
this for what it is: vitriol, anger, jeal-
ousy, spite. They know that President
Trump and a Republican-led House and
Senate delivered much needed tax and
regulatory relief, which was exactly
what the American people wanted and
precisely what Tennesseans were tell-
ing us: Get government off our backs.
Get government off our land. Get gov-
ernment out of our pocketbooks.
We are a nation built on the rule of
law and a nation that believes in ad-
hering to that law. Tennesseans, and
the American people, want fairness.
They want equal treatment. They want
justice. And they know injustice when
they see it. What they do not want is a
breathless revenge scheme orches-
trated by a political party.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S.J. RES. 54
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today the
Senate is going to be voting on the mo-
tion to instruct conferees for the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act to
backfill the military construction
money the President stole from our
troops to pay for his wall—a wall that
he gave his word Mexico would pay for.
This is very, very troublesome. I say
this as both dean of the Senate and as
President pro tempore emeritus. In
that role, I have arguably supported
and voted for more funding for our
military and their families than any
Senator—Republican or Democrat—in
this Chamber, but on this one, I will
urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
As Members of the Senate—there are
only 100 of us to represent 350 million
Americans—we have a profound respon-
sibility to support those who sacrifice
everything for our country. We should
not let this be a partisan issue. As I
said, I voted for more funding for our
troops than any Member of this body.
From the soldier we have sent across
the globe to the military family left at
home, we—all 100 of us—have a respon-
sibility to these men and women, re-
gardless of our politics and our ide-
ology. It is that responsibility that has
drawn me to the Senate floor today. I
cannot and will not support this mo-
tion.
There is $6.1 billion. Let me say that
again. There is $6.1 billion—that is $2.5
billion from the Department of Defense
and $3.6 billion from military construc-
tion projects—that President Trump
has stolen from the men and women of
our military in fiscal year 2019 alone,
just that one year, to pay for his inef-
fective, vanity wall—a wall that he
boasted to the press last week was the
‘‘Rolls-Royce’’ of walls.
But just like every Rolls-Royce in
the middle of the desert, Trump’s wall
is nothing more than outrageously ex-
pensive and completely useless. Ex-
perts agree that a wall will do nothing
to address the humanitarian crisis
along our southern border.
Families fleeing violence in their
home countries—fleeing murder, rape,
and other crimes—are openly turning
themselves over to Border Patrol offi-
cials. They are not trying to sneak
across the border. It is a lot different
than absconding across the border in
the middle of the night.
What has $6.1 billion in stolen funds
purchased for the American taxpayers?
Here is the money that was taken
away from our military: Children con-
tinuing to go to a middle school in
Kentucky every day that Pentagon of-
ficials have described as ‘‘deficient, in-
adequate, and undersized’’—we took
money from that to pay for the wall.
Buildings that do not meet the mili-
tary standards for fire safety or man-
agement of explosives, putting Amer-
ican lives at risk—we took money from
correcting that to pay for the wall.
And there are numerous cases of infra-
structure problems that are detri-
mental to our military’s readiness and
DOD’s national security mission. That
is not even mentioning the military
housing with mold issues, inadequate
daycare facilities for the children of
military families, and all the 127 mili-
tary construction projects President
Trump canceled—not delayed but can-
celed—to pay for his Rolls-Royce of a
wall in the middle of the desert.
The $6.1 billion for a Rolls-Royce in
the middle of the desert is an even
heavier burden for our military fami-
lies to bear. Outrage does not even
begin to describe how I feel about
President Trump’s actions.
Today, we are being asked to some-
how cover up his theft, cover up the
fact that he broke his word about Mex-
ico, and cover up the fact that this is a
vanity project. We are being asked to
give our constitutional blessing to
President Trump’s contorting the law
beyond recognition.
I believe that the Senate is the con-
science of the Nation. Contorting the
law to undo congressional funding deci-
sions by fiat is not following our con-
science, and I will not stand for that.
We are being asked to take the first
step to approve $3.6 billion in emer-
gency spending to replace part of what
the President stole. Let’s make an-
other thing clear. This spending is on
top of the discretionary caps agreed to
by Congress and the President. So we
are being asked to finance this coverup
on our children and grandchildren
through deficit spending.
I would say this to the President: I
believe you said that Mexico was going
to pay for your wall, not our troops,
not their families, and not future gen-
erations of American citizens.
If this were not troubling enough,
last week, the press reported in the
Washington Post that the Trump ad-
ministration does not even intend to
use this funding to replace what they
stole. ‘‘The plan is to sell it as replen-
ishment money for the Defense Depart-
ment for the $3.6 billion they took this
year,’’ said one administration official.
‘‘Then, once they got it from Congress,
they would take it again.’’
What is the saying? Fool Congress
once, shame on you. Fool Congress
twice, well, shame on us. Congress got
fooled once. Are we just going to stand
by idly and allow Congress to be fooled
again?
I have heard a lot of speeches on this
floor, and politicians often wax poetic
about their love of our troops. Yet this
body—100 Members of this Senate, the
body that should be the conscience of
our Nation—has done nothing to con-
strain this President’s ability to con-
tinue to steal from those troops. We
have done little more than shrug at
this abuse of our constitutional au-
thority. We have just looked away
from the egregious treatment of our
troops as a little more than a piggy
bank for the President’s political pet
project. I don’t stand for that. I am not
going to support that. I will not aban-
don our profound responsibility to sup-
port those who sacrifice everything for
our country.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.008 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5678 September 25, 2019
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, our
friends in the House, led by Speaker
PELOSI, have adopted a new strategy
for handling allegations of wrongdoing.
It is a dangerous approach, one in
which opinions count for more than the
facts and politics trumps everything
else, including the law.
Yesterday evening, Speaker PELOSI
announced that the House is now mov-
ing full steam toward impeaching
President Trump. When the announce-
ment was made, the only information
they had in their hands was press re-
ports—no report of the transcript, no
facts, no evidence, no nothing—and
that is really all they needed. Any
hook, any angle, any straw they might
be able to grasp in order to justify this
unjustifiable action was good enough
for them—hearsay and press reports.
House Democrats began this process
of impeaching the President based on a
so-called whistleblower complaint they
hadn’t even read, which detailed a call
they hadn’t seen a transcript of. Mean-
while, we know the media eagerly re-
ported that the ‘‘whistleblower’’ didn’t
even have firsthand knowledge of the
situation—something we now know to
be true. In other words, the alleged
whistleblower doesn’t legally qualify as
a whistleblower because he or she
wasn’t there when the conversation
took place but, rather, reported some-
thing that somebody told somebody
else—otherwise known as hearsay. For-
get obtaining the evidence, giving peo-
ple an opportunity to be heard, and the
facts considered. Rather than looking
into that, they decided on a result they
wanted to achieve and were looking at
trying to backfill a justification or
something that is unjustified based on
the facts we know now.
Of course, we know what this is. This
is a continuation of the election in 2016
where our Democratic friends can’t be-
lieve that Hillary Clinton lost the elec-
tion to Donald Trump. We know that
after that, they claimed: Well, Hillary
Clinton actually won the popular vote.
Forget the Constitution and the role
of the electoral college. Because of the
constitutional requirement that the
electoral college vote and whoever
wins the majority becomes President—
they said: Forget the Constitution.
Then there was the former FBI Direc-
tor, Comey, who leaked memos to a
buddy of his and then asked him to
leak them to the press because he
wanted to make sure that a special
counsel was appointed to investigate
and potentially prosecute President
Trump. We know this investigation
went on for years and cost millions of
dollars and ended up with the conclu-
sion of no obstruction and no collusion.
You can imagine the disappointment of
our friends in the media who had writ-
ten about this assuming that President
Trump would be indicted, maybe con-
victed of some offense, only to find out
there was no collusion, no obstruction,
and no charges.
So now we know that the Speaker
and her colleagues in the House have
grabbed hold of this straw without
knowing the facts and without even
waiting for the evidence to be revealed.
The Speaker’s decision to impeach the
President says everything you need to
know about their intentions. It doesn’t
matter what was said or what was not
said; it is about relitigating the 2016
election—something our Democratic
colleagues have never ever been able to
accept. They are trying to defy the vot-
ers who voted for President Trump in
2016.
Does a whistleblower complaint de-
serve to be examined and taken seri-
ously? Absolutely. In fact, the Senate
Intelligence Committee, on which I and
the Presiding Officer sit, will do just
that. We are in the process of doing
that. Before the Speaker’s announce-
ment yesterday, the President had
agreed to release the full, unredacted
transcript of the call, and this morn-
ing, he did. Tomorrow, the Senate In-
telligence Committee will hear from
Acting Director of National Intel-
ligence Joseph Maguire, as well as the
Inspector General for the Intelligence
Community, Michael Atkinson, to
learn more about their role in this
process. That is exactly how this mat-
ter should be handled—with care, by
the rules, I would say by the book, and
make sure that everybody’s rights are
protected before people begin to cast
unjustified and slanderous allegations.
Our friends in the House, the House
Democrats, aren’t just fanning flames
here; they have been pouring gasoline
out for months through their baseless
oversight hearings and all-out obses-
sion with the Mueller investigation,
which ended up with a big belly flop.
Yesterday, Speaker PELOSI lit the
match, and there is no turning back
now. The American people have made
abundantly clear that this sort of par-
tisan exercise is not what they want,
especially when it comes at the ex-
pense of other important work that we
are not going to be able to accomplish
because of this obsession with elimi-
nating President Trump. In a poll this
summer, only 34 percent of Texans sup-
ported impeachment.
While so much remains in the air,
this move has made one thing clear:
Our House colleagues have zero inter-
est in doing the jobs they were elected
to do in 2018, and given the fact that
the voters gave them the majority,
they show zero interest in governing
and in passing legislation. Instead of
working with both sides of the aisle to
pass bipartisan legislation to lower
drug costs, to try to address the con-
cern about mass shootings, to ratify
the trade agreement known as the
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and
otherwise try to make life better for
the American people—that is not the
route they have chosen. They have cho-
sen a partisan, political path, which
will absolutely suck all the oxygen out
of Washington. It will be an obsession
of the media and the American people
until it is concluded, crowding out any-
thing and everything else that we
might do that might improve the lives
of regular Americans.
The Democrats’ decision to move for-
ward with impeachment and toward re-
moving the President from office will
make solving these big challenges fac-
ing our country nearly impossible.
House Democrats aren’t doing what is
right and what is best for our country;
they are driving an even bigger wedge
between the American people to serve
their partisan political interests and
using the Constitution to hedge a polit-
ical fight.
Now, make no mistake about it—
when Special Counsel Mueller was
doing his investigation, it was an in-
vestigation to see whether crimes had
been committed and if they had been,
to present that evidence to a grand
jury and indict those who were more
likely than not to have committed
those offenses and then to try the case
to a conclusion in a court. That is not
what impeachment is. Impeachment is
solely a political exercise, and it is a
political exercise to defeat President
Trump even though the American peo-
ple voted for him as the President of
the United States.
Notwithstanding the gasoline that
House Democrats have been pouring on
this issue and the fact that Speaker
PELOSI decided to light the match and
to ignite it yesterday, one thing is
sure, and that is that cooler heads will
prevail here in the Senate. We know bi-
partisan oversight is already under
way. House Democrats’ obsession with
the 2016 election has gone too far, and
in fact, they should be embarrassed by
what they have done. Meanwhile, we
will carefully examine the record, root
out the evidence, and follow that evi-
dence wherever it may lead. It is im-
portant to have a fair trial before you
decide to hand out punishment, not
hand out the punishment and then
somehow look for justification for an
already reached conclusion.
DEBBIE SMITH ACT OF 2019
Mr. President, on another matter, it
has been 4 months since we passed the
Debbie Smith Act of 2019. This legisla-
tion sailed through the Senate without
any Senator voting against it. And why
would they? It is as bipartisan—you
might even say nonpartisan—as they
come.
The Debbie Smith Act, as Members
know, sends vital funding to State and
local crime labs to test DNA evidence.
It authorizes training for law enforce-
ment and forensic nurses and enables
law enforcement to identify violent
criminals and get them off the streets.
The benefit of the Debbie Smith Act
is wide-ranging, but it continues to de-
liver on the initial goal of reducing the
national rape kit backlog. That is
right—at one point, there were as
many as 400,000 untested rape kits sit-
ting in labs or on evidence shelves in
police lockers, and each one of those
forensic rape kits held the keys to
identifying a person who had com-
mitted a sexual assault or some other
crime.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.010 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5679
September 25, 2019
In Texas alone, the Debbie Smith Act
has helped us reduce the backlog of un-
tested rape kits by approximately 90
percent. Since 2001, we have gone from
roughly around 20,000 untested rape
kits to 2,000. That is still too many; we
need to test all of them. We have made
serious progress, and I won’t be satis-
fied until that untested rape kit num-
ber gets to zero, but to do that, Con-
gress needs to reauthorize the Debbie
Smith Act.
It should be obvious, but I will say it
anyway. This program transcends poli-
tics or party. Allowing it to expire is a
disservice to the victims and the advo-
cates who have championed this legis-
lation since it was first enacted 15
years ago.
I introduced the Debbie Smith Act of
2019 in the Senate with my friend and
colleague from California, a Democrat,
Senator DIANNE FEINSTEIN, which just
demonstrates bipartisan support from
Republicans, Democrats, victims’
rights groups, law enforcement, you
name it. But despite all that, Speaker
PELOSI has refused to bring this legis-
lation to the House floor for a vote,
and unless they pass it soon, this crit-
ical program will expire for the first
time in a week.
There was absolutely no problem re-
authorizing this critical program in
2008 or 2014, but clearly times have
changed. Our House Democratic col-
leagues aren’t above politicizing some-
thing as noncontroversial as reducing
the rape kit backlog.
If House Democrats allow this to ex-
pire, funds could soon be taken away
from crucial activities like prosecuting
cold cases, reducing the backlog, or ca-
pacity enhancing efforts. It is simply
inexcusable and shameful that Speaker
PELOSI and the House would allow the
Debbie Smith Act to expire when they
have had a bipartisan bill in their
hands for 4 months.
Well, just when you think you have
seen it all around here—we have seen a
lot of partisan antics in the House this
year, but this one really takes the
cake.
I urge our colleagues in the House to
quit the games and pass this critical
legislation to support victims of sexual
assault without further delay.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I am
here today because our elections are
still not secured against the threat of
foreign interference.
After 3 years of our intelligence com-
munity, our congressional committees,
and some of our closest allies sounding
the alarm about foreign election inter-
ference, we are right back here where
we started because this body has failed
to act. To me, it is pretty remarkable.
No one in this body would think that
the appropriate protections against
foreign interference into our power
grid should be a partisan issue. No one
would advance a theory that protecting
our financial system against foreign
cyber attacks should be a partisan
issue. So why would anyone think or
allow the basic protections of the ma-
chinery and system of our most essen-
tial component of our democracy, our
voting system, in any way to become a
partisan issue? My hope is we can avoid
that.
Some may point to the fact that ad-
ditional money has been appropriated
for State and local election authori-
ties, funds that have been used to up-
grade part of our election infrastruc-
ture. I am proud to have been part of
the initial efforts to secure these funds
ahead of the 2018 elections, and I am
genuinely supportive of additional
funding to secure the 2020 elections.
But we need to make one thing abso-
lutely clear. Additional funding for
election security is a necessary part of
securing our elections, but it is not a
sufficient defense against foreign at-
tacks on our democracy. Money alone
will not solve this problem.
Moreover, the funding we are talking
about in the CR comes with no guid-
ance or direction for State and local
election officials. Listen, I have no in-
terest in trying to federalize what has
traditionally been a State and local
function, but it is absolutely a tradi-
tion that this body sometimes makes
voluntary Federal funding available
only to jurisdictions that meet certain
criteria or guidelines. The truth is,
right now, with no guidelines, if a
State or locality wants to use these so-
called election security funds to up-
grade their machines or systems to the
latest, more secure models, they can do
that. But they can also buy machinery
and equipment that lacks proper secu-
rity features—that could lack a paper
ballot backup. Heck, they could even
use these funds to buy the ‘‘vote here’’
signs and those stickers we all proudly
wear on election day.
The truth, unfortunately, is that the
problem is not with our State and local
election officials. In fact, the decen-
tralized nature of our local elections
system is actually one of our best de-
fenses against election interference.
The problem is not a lack of policy
solutions. Frankly, I think a lot of us
on both sides of the aisle, including
very good work by folks like the Pre-
siding Officer, know exactly what we
need to do to secure our election infra-
structure.
We need a voter-verified paper trail
for every vote. Everyone should have
the confidence that no matter where
they vote in America—God forbid, if
there were ever a hack into a machine
or a machine doesn’t work—there is a
paper ballot backup so that every vote
will be accurately counted.
We need to make sure, as well, just
as in any major operation, that we
have postelection audits.
We can and must do more to secure
our voter registration systems. None of
this is Democrat, and none of this is
Republican; it is about the integrity
and mechanics of how Americans vote.
The problem is the lack of political
will in the U.S. Senate and the lack of
interest from the White House to actu-
ally secure our elections.
The truth is, until the majority lead-
er allows this kind of bipartisan elec-
tion security legislation to proceed,
our elections will remain vulnerable to
manipulation by foreign actors. I also
firmly believe that these bipartisan
bills—which, for example, Senator
LANKFORD has been one of the leaders
on—would get 75 or 80 votes even in our
divided Senate.
You don’t have to take my word on
the nature of the threat. Every one of
our intelligence agencies is continuing
to warn us that Russia will be back in
2020, and we are running out of time to
do something about it. As a matter of
fact, Robert Mueller, who led the spe-
cial counsel’s investigation efforts, tes-
tified under oath that Russia is at-
tempting to undermine the 2020 elec-
tions ‘‘as we sit here.’’
For almost 3 years, Senators from
both parties have worked on legislation
to make sure we are ready for the
threats our democracy will face in
2020—both from Russia, and unfortu-
nately from other bad actors who are
adapting Russia’s playbook because
they saw how successful Russia was in
2016. They were both successful in a
relatively inexpensive way to disrupt
our system and, in many ways, to pit
us against each other. Yet the Senate
has not brought up a single piece of
election security legislation—not a sin-
gle vote, not a single markup.
(Mr. LANKFORD assumed the Chair.)
The bills we are proposing are largely
bipartisan. We are talking about
straightforward, low-hanging fruit that
in normal times would have over-
whelming, if not unanimous, support.
We need to pass legislation that se-
cures our election infrastructure with
the tools I just laid out: paper ballots,
post-election audits, and enhanced
cyber security for election systems.
We are saying that the Department
of Homeland Security and local elec-
tion officials should be able to talk to
each other in a classified setting so
they can know the threats they are
facing. We are saying that if local elec-
tion officials have reason to suspect
that a serious cyber security incident
has occurred, they need to alert the ap-
propriate Federal officials and, if true,
appropriate congressional officials
need to know as well.
I also believe we need online ads to
follow the same rules as TV, radio, and
print advertisement. If you are seeing
an election ad that was produced or
bought in St. Petersburg and paid for
in rubles, I think Americans have a
right to know. We are saying that if
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.011 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5680 September 25, 2019
Russia attacks our elections again—or
any other foreign power—they should
immediately face sanctions. Of all
things, you would think the President
would be willing to punch back against
an attack on the sovereignty and in-
tegrity of the U.S. electoral system.
Finally, we are saying that if a for-
eign party reaches out to your cam-
paign offering dirt on a fellow Amer-
ican, the appropriate response is not to
say thank you; the appropriate re-
sponse is to call the FBI. The DHS
motto, ‘‘If you see something, say
something,’’ needs to apply in terms of
interference in our Presidential elec-
tions.
The truth is, what happened in 2016
will happen again in 2020 if we are not
prepared. That is why we cannot allow
election security to become a partisan
issue. I spent a lot of time working
with my Republican colleagues on
these bills. I want to particularly rec-
ognize the Presiding Officer, who has
really been one of if not the leading
voice on these bipartisan efforts to se-
cure elections. I know he has been
working relentlessly to find a way to
help get this legislation to the floor,
and I thank him because these are
commonsense, substantive proposals
that will make our democracy more se-
cure against foreign attack.
We should hold hearings, if nec-
essary, offer amendments, and vote on
this critical legislation while we still
have time. That is what we were sent
here to do, and that is what we must do
if we are going to secure our democ-
racy in 2020.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, I want to turn to pro-
tections for people with preexisting
medical conditions because these pro-
tections are under threat by this Presi-
dent.
Under the pretext of so-called short-
term plans, the Trump administration
is pushing healthcare plans that, once
again, allow insurance companies to
discriminate against Americans based
on their medical history. These skinny
plans—or I refer to them as ‘‘junk
plans’’—also undermine the Affordable
Care Act’s requirements that insurance
cover things like emergency room vis-
its, maternity care, and other essential
benefits.
Let me be clear. The reason this mar-
ket has suddenly been flooded with
these junk plans—in many cases adver-
tising in low-income markets that
these are ACA or ObamaCare plans—is
not because Congress passed any law.
The President tried and failed twice to
pass legislation ending these protec-
tions for folks with preexisting condi-
tions. Since they couldn’t get their
way in Congress, now they are using
Executive action to try to undermine
the Affordable Care Act.
I have introduced a resolution under
the Congressional Review Act which
would stop this deliberative effort to
destabilize the health insurance mar-
ket and weaken protections that Amer-
icans count on. Today I am filing a dis-
charge petition so that it will bring
this resolution to the Senate floor for
an up-or-down vote. The truth is, every
Member of this body knows someone—
either in their family or close rel-
atives—with a preexisting condition.
The fact is, many Members themselves
have preexisting conditions. In Vir-
ginia alone, more than 1 million people
live with preexisting conditions.
Before the Affordable Care Act, an
insurance company had every right to
deny these individuals coverage,
charge them unaffordable premiums, or
when they got that condition, termi-
nate their plan. I think we all agree we
can’t go back to those days. The ad-
ministration knows perfectly well that
these junk plans don’t offer real bene-
fits. They have been warned repeatedly
by hundreds of patient groups, physi-
cians, hospitals, and insurance, includ-
ing the American Heart Association,
AARP, the American Academy of Pedi-
atrics—just to name a few of the orga-
nizations that have come out against
these plans. All of these stakeholders
are telling us the same thing: The
Trump administration’s plan will
weaken consumer protections and dis-
proportionately hurt sick and older
Americans.
My Republican colleagues insist that
they actually support protections for
folks with preexisting conditions. OK.
With this CRA, I think there is a
chance to prove it. This resolution we
are introducing today will force an up-
or-down vote on these junk plans that
explicitly undermine protections for
preexisting conditions. If my col-
leagues truly support these protec-
tions, they should vote yes. It is that
simple. Instead of abiding or going
along with the administration’s effort
to undermine the stability of the
healthcare market, let’s not do that.
Let’s go back to the ACA. Let’s look at
fixes where there were mistakes made.
Let’s look at how we can work to-
gether on better access to Affordable
Care Act. I serve on the committee,
and I know the Finance Committee has
taken, I think, at least a first step—I
hope there will be more—in terms of
putting some reasonable constraints on
drug prices. It is not fair or right that
Americans pay more for drugs than
anyone else in the world and, in a
sense, subsidize the R&D for the whole
world.
There are a host of areas where we
can find agreement. Let’s make sure
the one part of the ACA that I think
everyone agreed to was this notion
that folks with preexisting conditions
should not be discriminated against. I
think the CRA would allow the Senate
to go on record on this critically im-
portant issue. I look forward to the op-
portunity to have this voted on and de-
bated when we come back from the
break.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I have
a brief statement. I ask unanimous
consent that I be permitted to com-
plete my statement before the vote be-
gins.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S.J. RES. 54
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise in
support of the resolution to terminate
the emergency declaration. I want to
thank Senator UDALL, the Senator
from New Mexico, for his leadership.
The question presented by this reso-
lution is not whether you are for a bor-
der wall or against a border wall. The
question is not whether you believe the
security at our southern border is suffi-
cient or it should be strengthened. In-
stead, the question is a far more funda-
mental and significant one. The ques-
tion is simply this: Should the Con-
gress of the United States of America
yield its constitutionally prescribed
power of the purse to the President?
The answer to that question, regard-
less of who is in the White House and
who is controlling Congress, should be
no.
Congress alone is empowered by the
Constitution to adopt laws directing
money to be spent from the U.S. Treas-
ury. We must stand up and defend our
role that the Framers very clearly set
forth in the Constitution. Congress
must do that even when to do so goes
against the outcome that we might
prefer.
I have consistently supported funding
for the construction of physical bar-
riers and for strengthening security on
our southern border. I will continue to
support those efforts and believe and
understand they are important, but I
cannot support the President’s unilat-
erally deciding to take money that has
been appropriated for one purpose and
diverting those billions of dollars for
another purpose no matter how impor-
tant or worthy that goal may be.
My colleagues, irrespective of wheth-
er you support or oppose a border wall,
I urge you today to support this resolu-
tion and stand up for the separation of
powers laid out in our Constitution. In
doing so, you are standing up for our
Constitution.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
has expired.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading and
was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The joint
resolution having been read the third
time, the question is, Shall the joint
resolution pass?
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.013 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5681
September 25, 2019
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Floria (Mr. RUBIO) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 302 Leg.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Portman
Reed
Romney
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—41
Barrasso
Blackburn
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Perdue
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Young
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The joint resolution (S.J. Res. 54)
was passed.
(The joint resolution, S.J. Res. 54, is
printed in the RECORD of September 26,
2019.)
f
RESOLUTIONS TO INSTRUCT
CONFEREES
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the clerk will re-
port the resolutions to instruct.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 330) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to require cer-
tain measures to address Federal election in-
terference by foreign governments.
A resolution (S. Res. 331) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
inclusion of the provisions of S. 2118 (116th
Congress) (relating to the prohibition of
United States persons from dealing in cer-
tain information and communications tech-
nology or services from foreign adversaries
and requiring the approval of Congress to
terminate certain export controls in effect
with respect to Huawei Technologies Co.
Ltd.).
A resolution (S. Res. 332) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
conference on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress)
to insist upon the provisions contained in
section 630A of the House amendment (relat-
ing to the repeal of a requirement of reduc-
tion of Survivor Benefit Plan survivor annu-
ities by amounts of dependency and indem-
nity compensation).
A resolution (S. Res. 333) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
provisions contained in subtitle B of title XI
of the House amendment (relating to paid
family leave for Federal personnel).
A resolution (S. Res. 334) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill (S. 1790) (116th Congress) to insist upon
the provisions contained in section 316 of the
Senate bill (relating to a prohibition on the
use of perfluoroalkyl substances and
polyfluoroalkyl substances for land-based
applications of firefighting foam).
A resolution (S. Res. 335) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
members of the conference to include the
provisions contained in section 2906 of the
Senate bill (relating to replenishment of cer-
tain military construction funds).
A resolution (S. Res. 336) instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
members of the conference to consider po-
tential commonsense solutions regarding
family and medical leave, including vol-
untary compensatory time programs and in-
centives through the tax code.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the resolutions to instruct
conferees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate recess from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
today for a briefing.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLINTON 12
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, in
a few minutes, I want to speak about
President Trump’s nomination of Eu-
gene Scalia to be the Secretary of
Labor, but first I want to introduce
two speeches that I made in Tennessee
into the RECORD. I notice the room
nearly cleared when I observed I was
about to make some speeches, but at
least there are some people watching.
The first speech was on August 26 of
this year in Clinton, TN. It had to do
with the Clinton 12. These were 12 stu-
dents, some as young as 14 years of age,
who walked down a hill and enrolled in
Clinton High School in 1956—63 years
ago—and became the first students to
integrate a public school in the South.
Many of us remember what happened
the next year in Arkansas, when Gov-
ernor Faubus stood in the door, and
President Eisenhower had to send in
the troops to integrate Little Rock
Central High School. I remember those
days very well. I was in high school
myself then.
It is hard to imagine the courage it
must have taken for those children to
walk down that hill and integrate that
school. Most of them were there in
Clinton, TN, when they were honored
in the month of August.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that my remarks on the Clinton 12
Commemorative Walk we took that
day be printed in the RECORD following
my remarks about Mr. Scalia.
TENNESSEE VALLEY FAIR
Secondly, the Tennessee Valley Fair.
It is a big event in Knoxville, TN, that
was held on September 6. It was at-
tended by almost everybody who has
anything to do with politics in Knox
County, which means the room was full
with 500 or 600 people.
It was an opportunity for me to make
a suggestion to the people of Knoxville
about what to celebrate. Many of us
had been watching Ken Burns’ ‘‘Coun-
try Music’’ special on PBS. He reminds
us that Tennessee has a lot to cele-
brate in terms of country music. His
first two hours were about Bristol, TN,
which is the birthplace of country
music. It is where Ralph Peer of New
York City went to Bristol, in 1927, put
an ad in the paper, saying: ‘‘Hillbillies,
come down out of the mountains with
your music,’’ and here came the Carter
family, Jimmy Rogers, and several oth-
ers.
One of the people on Mr. Burns’ show
this week was Charlie McCoy, the har-
monica player, a great musician. It re-
minded me of a time when I was Gov-
ernor and recruiting the General Mo-
tors’ Saturn plant to Tennessee. We
had the executives coming from De-
troit. We talked about what to serve
them for dinner. We served them coun-
try ham. We talked about whom to
have play a piece of music after dinner,
and I invited Charlie McCoy to play his
harmonica.
A Nashville woman came up to me
and said: Governor, I am so embar-
rassed.
I said: Why is that?
She said: You had all those fine peo-
ple from Detroit, and then you had
that harmonica player. She said: What
will they think of us? Why didn’t you
offer them Chopin?
I said: Madam, why should we offer
them average Chopin when we have the
best harmonica player in the world?
The better people of Nashville had re-
sisted for a long time calling Nashville
Music City, but of course Music City is
a wonderful signature, a great person-
ality, and it is one reason Nashville is
such a celebrated city today.
In the same way, Knoxville has vio-
lated the Biblical injunction about
don’t keep your light under a bushel
because it rarely talks much about Oak
Ridge. So the speech I made would sug-
gest that the sign at the Knoxville air-
port, which says, ‘‘Welcome to Knox-
ville: Gateway to the Great Smoky
Mountains,’’ ought to say instead,
‘‘Welcome to Knoxville: Gateway to
the Great Smoky Mountains and the
Oak Ridge Corridor.’’
There are nearly 3,000 scientists, en-
gineers, and technicians who work at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:21 Sep 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S25SE9.REC S25SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5682 September 25, 2019
the Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
the largest science and energy labora-
tory in America, and at the University
of Tennessee and at the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority. That part of the person-
ality of the Knoxville area needs to be
celebrated.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that following my remarks on the
Clinton 12, that my speech at the Ten-
nessee Valley Fair on September 6 be
printed in the RECORD.
NOMINATION OF EUGENE SCALIA
Mr. President, in my remaining time,
I would like to say a few words about
Eugene Scalia and the President’s
nomination of him to be Secretary of
Labor for the United States.
The Senate will vote, probably to-
morrow, on whether to confirm Mr.
Scalia. I certainly hope the Senate
does, and I believe the Senate will.
We have known for two months that
President Trump intended for Mr.
Scalia to be the Secretary. He an-
nounced that intention on July 18. We
have had all of his papers since August
27. Those are the government ethics pa-
pers and the committee papers that are
necessary. They all came a month ago.
He gave us a copy of all of his writings.
He came to a hearing the other day.
The Presiding Officer was there. He
testified for three hours. We had two
rounds of questions. Senators could ask
anything they wanted. He offered to
visit, over the last month, with every
member of our committee and did with
all but two. So we know plenty about
Mr. Scalia. He answered another 418
questions that committee members
asked him after his hearing.
I think two months is long enough to
consider him and consider all that in-
formation.
I remember when President Obama’s
Secretary of Education stepped down
in the last year of the President’s
term. I encouraged the President to
nominate John King, whom the Presi-
dent wanted to nominate, but he was
afraid he couldn’t be confirmed because
we, the Republican majority, disagreed
with him. I disagreed with him. I said:
Mr. President, it is important for you
to have a confirmed member of your
Cabinet and to have that person con-
sidered and confirmed promptly. It is
important to the Senate to have a Cab-
inet member who goes through the
process of questions and advice and
consent. That is our most important
function in many ways.
We confirmed John King in a month.
We have had two months to consider
Mr. Scalia, and that should be enough.
He has a broad background in labor and
employment law. He is a partner in a
major Washington, DC, law firm, so he
knows all the issues. He spent a year as
Solicitor of Labor in the George W.
Bush administration. He left the firm
to be Special Assistant to the Attorney
General of the United States in 1992.
Academically, he is very well pre-
pared. He went to the University of
Virginia. He was editor in chief of the
University of Chicago Law Review. He
has been a guest lecturer at the Uni-
versity of Chicago Law School and an
adjunct professor at the David A.
Clarke School of Law at the University
of the District of Columbia. He is very
well qualified.
It is important for the Department to
have a well-qualified, steady leader. I
like the demeanor that Mr. Scalia
showed in his hearing. The Democratic
members of the committee were there,
and they were very vigorous in their
questioning. I also like the fact that
they were courteous to him. They
didn’t take the attitude that some-
times happens in U.S. Senate—that
you are innocent until nominated.
They took the attitude that he was a
well-qualified person with whom they
disagreed, so they asked him questions.
He answered them, and he did a good
job.
I like the fact that the Trump Ad-
ministration has taken steps to create
a more stable environment by having a
more sensible joint employer standard
that doesn’t make it more difficult for
American families to own and operate
franchises. There are more than seven
hundred thousand American franchise
establishments. That is the way you
get into the middle class in America.
We need a steady hand there to make
sure that happens properly.
I like the fact that the administra-
tion has a more reasonable overtime
rule. The overtime threshold needed to
be changed, but the last administration
raised it too high too fast. It caused
church camps to have to lay off people
and close in the summer. It had all
sorts of unintended consequences and
bipartisan opposition. The administra-
tion announced yesterday a more rea-
sonable step.
Next, association health plans.
Among the people in America who have
the hardest time paying for insurance
are those who make $50,000 a year and
don’t get a government subsidy. Asso-
ciation health plans help people who
work for small businesses to be able to
get the same kind of insurance that
people who work for IBM or big busi-
nesses get—insurance that covers pre-
existing conditions and offers the same
sort of consumer protections.
It has been estimated by Avalere
that the association health plan rule
that the Department of Labor put out
would help three to four million Ameri-
cans be able to afford health insurance
and save their premium costs by sev-
eral thousand dollars a year. Mr. Scalia
can work on that.
Mr. President, I received 32 letters in
support of Mr. Scalia’s nomination
from small business owners, employers,
industry groups, and his colleagues. I
will mention a couple.
Former Obama administration offi-
cial Cass Sunstein wrote:
His decency is part of what makes him
someone who tends to go case-by-case, and
to end up where the facts and the law take
him. . . . He does not have an ideological
straightjacket. He takes issues on their mer-
its.
Thomas Susman, who was Senator
Ted Kennedy’s counsel, wrote:
Gene is precisely the kind of person that
our country needs in the Cabinet: experi-
enced, ethical, professional, open-minded,
fair, and brilliant.
There are a number of other letters
from former Department of Labor ca-
reer attorneys, Chicago Law Review
editorial board members, Fraternal
Order of Police members, and others.
Suffice it to say that the country is
fortunate the President has nominated
Eugene Scalia to be the U.S. Secretary
of Labor. He has conducted himself ad-
mirably in the two-month process of
going through the Senate confirma-
tion. We have a chance to bring that to
a conclusion tomorrow. My hope is
that the Senate will confirm him and
that he will be in office by the end of
the week.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
COMMEMORATING THE CLINTON 12 WALK
Thank you Mayor Frank. To Lt. Governor
McNally, Congressman Fleischmann, Rep-
resentative Bob Clement, Judy Gooch, stu-
dents and teachers, and especially, to mem-
bers of the Clinton 12 and their families and
friends.
It is hard standing here to imagine the
courage that it took the Clinton 12, some of
them as young as 14 years of age, to take a
walk that we just took this morning and be-
come the first students to integrate a public
high school in the south.
In that year, 63 years ago, I was a rising
junior at Maryville High School, about an
hour away.
I remember reading in the Knoxville news-
papers about John Kasper, and the dem-
onstrations, and how the men and women we
honor here today couldn’t be intimidated.
I remember the uncommon courage of
then-governor Frank Clement, whose son
Bob is here, who sent in state troopers and
national guardsmen in support of the Clinton
12.
Today it seems like it would be an easy de-
cision, but it was not an easy decision for the
governor.
I remember that the very next year in 1957,
it was a different story in Arkansas.
The Governor of Arkansas stood in the
door and stopped students from coming into
Little Rock Central High School, and Presi-
dent Eisenhower mobilized the National
Guard to support the students.
It’s unpleasant to remember some of the
things from then.
It’s unpleasant to remember the Boys’ and
Girls’ State program that we high schoolers
would attend, was then segregated by race.
That the Alcoa student, who later became
the first African American basketball coach
at the University of Tennessee, when he was
a teenager and wanted to go to the Univer-
sity of Tennessee football game, had to sit in
a section of the stadium that was reserved
for blacks.
It’s unpleasant to remember that there
never had been an African American athlete
who played in the Southeastern Conference,
or there hadn’t been a black Supreme Court
Justice in Tennessee, or a black chancellor,
or a local judge.
It’s unpleasant to remember that African
American students couldn’t sit at the front
of the bus, couldn’t sit at a lunch counter,
and when traveling across our state and
some other states in the South, had to sleep
in the car because no motel would admit
them because of their race.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.016 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5683
September 25, 2019
So it is good to celebrate that things are
very different today, and it’s important to
remember the courage of the Clinton 12 and
to celebrate that progress.
But it’s also important to remember, as we
celebrate the Clinton 12, that things could be
even better.
We still have a ways to go.
We have a United States Senator from
South Carolina, whose name is Tim Scott.
He is an African American Senator elected
from that state.
He told me that he was arrested seven
times within the last few years in his home-
town in Charleston, South Carolina, basi-
cally for being a black man in the wrong
place.
And at the time, he was the Vice Mayor of
Charleston.
When I first came to the Senate several
years ago, your city manager, Steve Jones,
came to see me to tell me Clinton’s vision
for preserving the story of the Clinton 12.
It’s been a great pleasure to work with him
and the city and so many of you to try to
help him do that.
Our former senator, Bill Frist, worked
with us to help us secure some of the first
funding for Green McAdoo Cultural Center.
And a new law we passed in 2009 directed
the Secretary of the Interior to take the
first step to making it part of our National
Park System.
The late reverend Benjamin Hooks, a Ten-
nessean who was President of the NAACP,
once told me this: ‘‘Remember, our country
is a work in progress.
In my life, I have seen us come a long way,
but we have a long way to go.’’
That is why the story of the Clinton 12 is
so important to remember and celebrate
today. Thank you.
TENNESSEE VALLEY FAIR
You know, it says in Lamar Alexander’s
Little Plaid Book that if you want a stand-
ing ovation, seat a few friends in the front
row.
Thanks to those of you right there.
Thanks to Tim Burchett and to Kelly and
Isabel.
I want you to know that Tim is not only
good at the Vol Market, he’s good in the
United States Congress, and I appreciate the
chance to serve with him in his good work
there.
To Speaker Cameron Sexton, congratula-
tions to Cameron. I’ve watched his career,
he’s off to a terrific start.
Mayor Jacobs, Mayor Rogero, Congress-
man Jimmy Duncan—my good friend for
many years, and he still is—and Wanda
Moody, with whom I worked for a long time.
Distinguished ladies and gentlemen: Com-
ing up here, I was thinking that our favorite
son, Howard Baker, used to remind us that it
was wise to try to be an eloquent listener,
but that gets harder to do the older you get.
For example, you may remember Bobby
Bare who sang Detroit City.
He’s in his eighties now.
He was on the Grand Ole Opry stage the
other night.
Somebody asked him, ‘‘Bobby, how long
you’ve been wearing your hearing aids?’’
He said, ‘‘Well, it’s like this. A few years
ago, my wife said to me, ‘Bobby, I’m proud of
you.’ And I said back to her, ‘I’m tired of you
too.’ ’’
He said, ‘‘I’ve been wearing them ever
since.’’
A few years ago, when I was buying a car
in Nashville, the salesman pulled out his
billfold, and he pulled out a picture of his
two-year-old and he said, ‘‘What do you
think of her?’’
And I said what a politician always says. I
said, ‘‘That is a beautiful baby.’’
And he looked up at me and said, ‘‘She won
second best baby at the Wilson County
Fair.’’
I’ve always remembered that because
that’s what we do at fairs. We celebrate the
best among us.
We celebrate the tastiest tomato, and the
biggest pumpkin, and the prettiest girl and
the strongest man, the craziest quilt, the
biggest tractor and the best baby.
And for a century, the Tennessee Valley
Fair has been doing that.
Bob Booker wrote this morning about
some of the history even before then, and I
was thinking so much happened in 1919.
I know over in one county, a Maryville
high school was started that year.
Proffitt’s Department Store was started
that year.
The Kiwanis Club started that year.
The West Plant was being built that year
and this fair started that year.
And I think it was because the war ended
in 1918 and everybody came home and had a
burst of enthusiasm about our country.
They wanted to celebrate what was good
about it.
And so here came the fair.
So this fair has been celebrating all the
things I just talked about.
And also, had you come to the Tennessee
Valley Fair over the last century, you could
see pigs jumping through hoops, you could
see dancing horses, you could see African
American cultural exhibits, you could see
the wildest roller coaster ride, and you could
see the fastest new car.
That’s why people came to the fair.
But in the depression, Professor Harcourt
Morgan, who later was the U.T. president
and the TVA Board Chairman, suggested
this. He said, ‘‘We ought to use the fair to
try to think differently what we have to cel-
ebrate in the Knoxville area.’’
So in that spirit, let me take about five or
10 minutes and suggest to you what I think
we ought to be celebrating in the Knoxville
area.
We have plenty to celebrate.
I mean, telling Eddie earlier, you’d come
down to the airport and there’s a sign that
says, ‘‘Welcome to Knoxville, Gateway to the
Great Smoky Mountains.’’ We’ve got the big-
gest mountains in the East, the most visited
park. That’s something to celebrate.
Ken Burns is going to have on television
this year his series on country music.
He thinks it may be more popular than his
Civil War series.
Where was the birthplace of country
music? Right here in East Tennessee.
The Tennessee Valley Authority has be-
come the largest public utility in the United
States.
The University of Tennessee has become a
major research institution and the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory has grown from a
Manhattan Project to build a bomb to win a
war, to becoming the nation’s largest science
and energy laboratory, the home of the
world’s fastest computer, and the home of
the best new work on 3–D printing for manu-
facturing.
So we’ve got a lot to celebrate.
Let’s add up those last three. Let’s add up
TVA, U.T., and Oak Ridge for just a minute.
When I do that, here’s one thing I get:
about 3,000 scientists and engineers.
You know that’s as large a concentration
of brainpower in the Knoxville area as exists
in North Carolina’s research triangle, Route
128 of Massachusetts, or it even rivals the
Silicon Valley—which we know a lot about—
in California.
The trouble is when we come to Oak Ridge,
the rest of us in this area are guilty of vio-
lating the parable that Jesus talked about in
Matthew, which was don’t hide your light
under a bushel.
We just don’t talk about it much.
It’s not so unusual. It just doesn’t happen
to us.
About every 10 years at night in Nashville,
some of the so-called ‘‘better’’ people will
come up and say, ‘‘We’re getting a bad rep-
utation. We’ll get known for all this hillbilly
music in Nashville. Can’t we remind people
we have a symphony?’’
I remember one night when I was governor,
we invited the General Motors executives
from Detroit to have dinner at the mansion.
We were recruiting the Saturn plant like
everybody else was.
So Honey and I decided we would serve a
country ham, and I invited Charlie McCoy to
play the harmonica after dinner.
A Nashville lady came up to me afterwards
and said, ‘‘Governor, I’m so embarrassed
about what I see. About that harmonica
player, what will those fine people from De-
troit think of us?’’ And I said, ‘‘Madam, why
should I offer them average Chopin when we
got the best harmonica player in the world?’’
Nashville is pretty happy about being
Music City and off they go.
Then I go to Memphis and they’re wor-
rying about Nashville. They said, ‘‘Nash-
ville’s got this, Nashville’s got that.’’
I say, ‘‘Well, wait a minute. Okay, let’s
have a jobs conference.’’
So we had a jobs conference and what’d
they do? Well, they said, ‘‘We’ve got Beale
Street, we’ll clean it up, we’ll build an
agricenter. Nashville doesn’t want to do
that, that fits us. We’ll get the ducks back
walking in the Peabody Hotel.’’
And there went Memphis.
Then here come the people from Chat-
tanooga, ‘‘You gave Memphis money, we
want to build a $2 million aquarium.’’
I said, ‘‘Why would you build such a stingy
aquarium? If you’re going to do it, build the
biggest aquarium from Baltimore to Miami
so people will come to see it.’’
And that is what they did. And in the
meantime they noticed they had the beau-
tiful Tennessee River Gorge and a great
downtown. And look where Chattanooga is
today.
So let’s think about Knoxville, just a
minute, and all those cities.
The idea of hiding our light under a bushel
doesn’t just belong to the cities.
It’s all over the state.
Some of you will remember Tennessee
homecoming ’86 when I asked everybody to
find something to celebrate in your commu-
nity—invite everybody who lived there to
come do it, and then have a celebration.
And in the Forest Brook neighborhood in
Knoxville, they invited everybody to come
home on the 4th of July and they had a cele-
bration.
And in Hickman County, Minnie Pearl and
the people who lived there made a quilt with
all the names of the little communities in
Hickman County so the children would
know, for example, where Bona Aqua came
from.
And in Nashville, they invited all the writ-
ers who grew up in Tennessee to come home
and they did. And the Festival of Books still
is going on in Nashville.
So I think it’s important to stop worrying
about what you’re not and start celebrating
what you’ve got, which is why I have a sug-
gestion to make in the spirit of Professor
Harcourt Morgan, who said, ‘‘We ought to
use the fair to take a little different look
about what we have to sell them.’’
I suggest that we change the sign at the
Knoxville airport and we say ‘‘Welcome to
Knoxville, Gateway to the Great Smoky
Mountains and the Oak Ridge Corridor.’’
Now our new governor, Bill Lee, who is an
engineer, understands why we need to do
that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.002 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5684 September 25, 2019
He told a group from Nashville, ‘‘What
Tennessee needs is a magnet to attract jobs
and capital.’’
Then he came up to Oak Ridge the next
day and said, ‘‘We’ve got a magnet right
here.’’
The first time I met Glenn Jacobs, he
talked to me about the Oak Ridge Corridor
before I could talk to him about it.
He’s the mayor of Knox County, but he saw
the interconnection.
So I’m sure Mayor Rogero must see those
connections every day.
Tim Burchett is pretty good at the Vol
Market, but the first visit he had with me in
Washington was to come talk to me about
the 8,000 Oak Ridgers who live in Knox Coun-
ty and what he could do to support Oak
Ridge and Randy Boyd and Chancellor Plow-
man of University of Tennessee.
You know, U.T. now manages the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, and they started
a new hundred million dollar Oak Ridge In-
stitute at the University of Tennessee to rec-
ognize the importance of that connection.
Last week, I talked to Sam Beall, who,
many of you know.
Just like this fair, Sam Beall is 100 years
old.
When he came to Knoxville in the 1930s,
there was basically no Oak Ridge.
The Great Smoky Mountains National
Park and TVA had just been created.
And there were no doctoral programs at
the University of Tennessee and no one in
their wildest dream could imagine a personal
computer.
Today, Oak Ridge has the largest science
and energy laboratory in America, TVA is
the largest public utility, U.T. is a major re-
search university, and the fastest computers
in the world are about 15 miles away at Oak
Ridge.
So things have changed.
When Sam Beall came here in the 1930s,
which was about the time Professor Har-
court Morgan said, ‘‘Let’s think about a lit-
tle different way to celebrate the Knoxville
area.’’
When Sam came in the 1930s, Oak Ridge
was a secret city.
While a lot of people from around here
work there, there didn’t seem to be much re-
lationship between Oak Ridge and Maryville,
or Oak Ridge and Madisonville, or Oak Ridge
and Sevierville, or even Oak Ridge and Knox-
ville.
So, my suggestion is that we take Pro-
fessor Harcourt Morgan’s advice in the 1930s
and use it this year.
That, along with the prize chickens, the
best babies, the birthplace of country music,
and most visited national park.
Let’s celebrate the fact that the Knoxville
area is the home of one of the largest con-
centrations of brain power anywhere in the
United States, rivaling the Research Tri-
angle, Route 128 and even the Silicon Valley.
And it’s also home to one of the best-
known brand names in the world, a brand
name that stands for science, energy, and ex-
cellence.
So my suggestion in the spirit of the fair
and with the suggestion of Harcourt Morgan,
is let’s change the sign at the Knoxville air-
port from ‘‘Welcome to Knoxville, Gateway
to the Great Smoky Mountains’’ to ‘‘Wel-
come to Knoxville, Gateway to the Great
Smoky Mountains and the Oak Ridge Cor-
ridor.’’
If we want to take the professor’s advice
and celebrate what’s special about where we
live today, that would be the best way to do
it.
Thank you.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
S.J. RES. 54
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, earlier
this month, I went to Joint Base An-
drews, which, as I think many of you
know, is not far from here. It is where
the President boards Air Force One.
The mission at Joint Base Andrews is
broad. The Air Force does an incredible
job in service to our country. I went
there to take a look at the Child Devel-
opment Center. The Child Development
Center that I visited was first con-
structed in 1941 not as a childcare cen-
ter but for other purposes. It has had
serious challenges, as the Air Force put
in their request to build a new
childcare center—a new child develop-
ment center.
I visited classrooms that had to be
closed because of a sewage backup,
which happens regularly and flows into
the kitchen area of this particular fa-
cility. I saw the results of a roof that
had collapsed during a heavy snow-
storm that now has been replaced, but
the use of that part of the building is
compromised. I saw the concerns ex-
pressed about pest control, about an
HVAC system that does not work prop-
erly, and about a facility that doesn’t
have the capacity they need in order to
deal with the needs of our Air Force
personnel.
It was for that reason that the Air
Force has made this one of their top
priorities in military construction, to
replace this 1941 facility. Through the
competitive process that is used under
the Department of Defense, this project
rose to a top priority and was included
in the President’s budget and approved
by Congress at $13 million for a re-
placement.
Let me read from the Air Force’s jus-
tification in requesting these funds. It
says:
Not providing this facility forces members
to use more expensive, less convenient and
potentially lower quality off-base programs.
These off-base child development centers
typically cost $9,400 more than on-base, cre-
ating a severe financial strain on military
personnel. Quality of life will be severely de-
graded, resulting in impacts to retention and
readiness because Airmen and their families
will not have a safe and nurturing environ-
ment for child care.
That will be the consequences if we
don’t replace the structure. Why do I
talk about that? Because this was one
of 64 projects that were included in the
President’s emergency power transfer,
taking this $13 million from the re-
placement of a child development cen-
ter and using it for his wall. It was one
of three projects in Maryland. We had
$66.5 million.
There was another project at Joint
Base Andrews dealing with hazardous
material, the place where they unload
hazardous material. They want to do it
away from where the President’s plane
flies. That makes abundant sense. That
was cut and transferred over to the
wall.
For those of you who have been to
Ft. Meade—an incredibly important fa-
cility—try to get there when you have
a traffic problem. It is almost impos-
sible. Part of the moneys that were
transferred was to alleviate those con-
cerns—the traffic.
The President took 64 projects—$3.6
billion, including this Child Develop-
ment Center at Joint Base Andrews, to
use to pay for his wall. He told us dur-
ing the campaign that this was being
done in an effort—that Mexico would
pay for it. We now know that the air-
men families at Joint Base Andrews
are going to pay for this wall—$9,400
more per child because they don’t have
a safe facility. This facility has a hard
time passing accreditation considering
the situation. That is not me telling
you this; this is the Air Force telling
you this. Yet those funds were taken
away. Why were they taken away? Be-
cause the President used his emergency
declaration power to do this.
I believe this was an unconstitu-
tional abuse of power. Let me quote
from the President himself. This is
what the President said in the Rose
Garden in announcing the so-called
emergency. I am quoting the President
of the United States:
I could do the wall over a longer period of
time. I didn’t need to do this. But I’d rather
do it much faster.
Is that an emergency? Is that contra-
dicting the direct dictate of Congress?
Let me just remind my colleagues of
the Constitution, article I, section 9,
clause 7. It is the Congress that has the
power of the purse strings. We are the
ones who appropriate the money, not
the President of the United States. He
carries out our instructions. Yet he
uses, by his own words, something he
wanted to do for himself rather than a
national emergency to transfer those
funds. It is wrong. It is not just this
Senator saying it is wrong; we got a
letter from several Senators, former
Senators and former Members of the
House—Republicans—who commented
on this. The signatories to this letter
include Senator Danforth, Mickey
Edwards, Chuck Hagel, Jim Kolbe,
Olympia Snowe, and Richard Lugar.
They are respected Republican Mem-
bers of this body. Let me quote from
their letter.
Our oath is to put the country and its Con-
stitution above everything, including party
politics or loyalty to a president. . . . The
power of the purse rests with Congress . . . if
you allow a president to ignore Congress, it
will be not your authority but that of your
constituents that is deprived of the protec-
tions of true representative government.
This is not about loyalty to a Presi-
dent or a party loyalty; this is about
exercising the constitutional respon-
sibilities of the article I legislative
branch of government.
We just took a vote. We can do some-
thing about it—S.J. Res. 54, termi-
nating the national emergency. We got
a majority of the Senators who voted
for it, 54 to 41, so it will move forward.
We expect this will not be the last
word, and that is why I am taking the
floor time now. We are going to have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.003 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5685
September 25, 2019
another opportunity to do this. We
may have an opportunity to override a
Presidential veto. We are going to need
more support. I urge my colleagues to
please look at the Constitution of the
United States we took the oath to up-
hold. Look at Members who have
served here in the past who are warn-
ing us that this will come back to
haunt our constituents in their con-
stitutional checks and balances, having
the Congress be the people’s body
here—not the President of the United
States—in passing laws and making ap-
propriations.
Let us do the right thing. Let us ex-
ercise the checks and balances that are
in our system. Let us see this S.J. Res.
54 become law. Let us reverse this
emergency declaration. Let’s do it for
the Constitution. Let’s do it for the
U.S. Congress. Let’s do it for the men
and women in our military service who
are being denied the necessary military
construction projects, including those
service men and women at Joint Base
Andrews who need a child development
center that protects the welfare of
their children.
For all those reasons, I hope this be-
comes law.
With that, Mr. President, I suggest
the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MEDICAL BILLING
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, for
the past couple of weeks, New Hamp-
shire and many other States across the
country have been flooded with mil-
lions of dollars’ worth of dark money
advertisements. These ads have been
all over TV and social media.
Let me just be clear. They haven’t
been running just against me in New
Hampshire; they have been running
against Democrats and Republicans in
competitive races across this country.
We have also had flyers that have
been jammed in the mailboxes all
across New Hampshire. I even got sev-
eral of the flyers myself. This is an ex-
ample of one. I will read it in just a
minute.
I want to point out that the goal of
this campaign has been to stop Con-
gress from acting to address surprise
medical bills.
For example, this flyer makes the
dishonest claim that addressing sur-
prise medical bills would lead to hos-
pital closures and doctor shortages. In
fact, you can see, it says:
Imagine if the care we needed wasn’t there
when we needed it the most. Rate setting is
a healthcare nightmare—hospital closures,
doctor shortages, windfall profits for big in-
surance. Say no to rate setting. Don’t put
big insurance companies in charge of our
healthcare. Stop surprise medical bills.
Then you turn it over, and it says:
Tell Jeanne Shaheen to stop rate setting.
Say no to putting big insurance in charge of
our healthcare. Say no to making it harder
to see our chosen doctors when we need them
the most. Say no to big insurance profits at
our expense. Tell Senator Jeanne Shaheen to
put patients first.
You read that, and you think I am all
about trying to put insurance compa-
nies ahead of patients. It doesn’t tell
you who is sending it. But you look at
it—and we did a little digging, and we
found out that the ads say that they
are paid for by an organization called
Doctor Patient Unity. You read that,
and you think, well, they are worried
about patients. You look at that, and
you think they are worried about hos-
pital closures. This is from Doctor Pa-
tient Unity, so this must be someone
who cares about patients. Don’t believe
it.
The truth is, these flyers and the ads
that have been running in New Hamp-
shire and across the country are paid
for by two private equity firms on Wall
Street. They don’t care about patients.
They care about profits.
They have spent over $2 million in
New Hampshire. If you look across the
country, they have spent tens of mil-
lions of dollars. Just imagine that in-
stead of trying to pad their own bot-
tom line and worrying about surprise
medical billing, they had put those
tens of millions of dollars into improv-
ing healthcare for the people of this
country.
The public doesn’t know this because
they have been left completely in the
dark. Due to the Supreme Court’s Citi-
zens United decision, special interests
can spend unlimited amounts of money
and stay anonymous. So the average
person throughout the country who
gets one of these flyers is not going to
know who paid for these ads. They are
not going to know who is getting the
benefit of the costs from surprise med-
ical billing.
This ad campaign is not only con-
fusing to voters; it is exhibit A in how
our campaign finance system is bro-
ken. The voices of Granite Staters who
are struggling to pay surprise medical
bills are being drowned out in this case
by private equity firms on Wall Street
that are making billions off of the sta-
tus quo.
Here is how these private equity
firms are exploiting patients. First,
surprise medical bills usually occur
when a patient visits an in-network
hospital. Let’s say my insurance says
that I can go to the hospital in my
hometown. As part of the treatment, I
go to the hospital, but the doctor who
sees me is not a doctor who is in the
network of my insurance company. So
unbeknownst to me, as I go into the
emergency room, that doctor is what is
called out of network. These doctors
often are working for physician staff-
ing companies that have gone out of
network so they can aggressively pur-
sue surprise medical bills. These physi-
cian staffing companies are also using
these surprise medical bills to nego-
tiate—to command in-network pay-
ments from insurers that are often
twice as high as the average, which can
result in higher premiums for every-
body.
So they have these surprise medical
bills, and you pay more for those. The
insurance companies and the physician
staffing companies go to the insurers
and say: Look, these doctors are get-
ting paid this much from surprise med-
ical bills, so you have to raise your
payments for doctors in your network,
and everybody is going to pay more as
the result of that.
Again, this is frequently done at the
behest of private equity firms that own
the physician staffing companies.
Surprise medical bills can be a tre-
mendous shock to patients. This is
what happened to Donald and Kathy
Cavallaro. They live in Rye, NH. Don
works at the Portsmouth Naval Ship-
yard. When Kathy needed emergency
surgery, Don’s insurance covered the
hospital costs, but the doctor per-
forming the surgery was out of their
insurance network. The result was that
they got a surprise medical bill for
$5,000. Now they are appealing that
cost.
Unfortunately, what the Cavallaros
are going through isn’t a rare occur-
rence. One in six emergency room vis-
its in New Hampshire results in a sur-
prise bill for Granite Staters who have
large employer coverage.
Nationally, the average cost of a sur-
prise bill from an emergency room
visit is more than $600, and the average
surprise bill for inpatient care is over
$2,000. So we can see what is happening
as a result of surprise medical bills.
Surprise bills like these can easily put
a family budget in the red, and Con-
gress desperately needs to put a stop to
them.
Today, I strongly encourage my col-
leagues in the Senate to move this ef-
fort forward. The special interests that
are pushing these surprise medical bills
and pushing up all of our healthcare
costs have to be tuned out.
This is about making sure that when
a Granite Stater or any American goes
to a hospital, they can have faith that
their insurance is going to cover their
costs. We should not—we must not—let
private equity firms on Wall Street
bully Congress or derail the bipartisan
efforts that are taking place in this
body to address surprise medical bills.
These advertisements should also
serve as a reminder that Congress has
to reform our broken campaign finance
system. Special interests shouldn’t be
able to hide behind nice-sounding front
groups like Doctor Patient Unity.
We know these private equity firms
are responsible for these ads only be-
cause of investigative reporting that
was done by Bloomberg, the New York
Times, and some others. Sadly, this is
the exception rather than the norm be-
cause usually dark money never gets
exposed.
In closing, I want to send a very clear
message: I don’t care how many ads
these special interests run, how many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.018 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5686 September 25, 2019
mailers they send out, or how many
millions they spend. Granite Staters
who have had their family budgets up-
ended by surprise medical bills must be
prioritized over the special interests
who want to profit off of them.
Healthcare costs are out of control,
and tackling surprise medical bills
must remain at the top of the Senate’s
agenda.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The clerk will call the
roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
FUTURE ACT
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, right
now, HBCUs, like Wilberforce and Cen-
tral State in my State of Ohio, and
other minority-serving institutions are
facing a fiscal cliff. If we don’t act now,
this week, HBCUs and other schools
will face crippling funding cuts. These
schools are a critical part of our Na-
tion’s higher education system. They
have a rich legacy and a proven track
record of educating students of color
and other underrepresented students.
Wilberforce was founded in 1856 as
the Nation’s first private institution of
higher education for Black students in
this country—an institution that we
are so proud of in southwestern Ohio.
Central State has a rich legacy of edu-
cating students and is an 1890 land-
grant institution.
Many of us worked in the last farm
bill to right a historical wrong and to
make sure all 1890 land-grant univer-
sities, including Central State, have
access to the funding they deserve.
They have fostered generations of Afri-
can-American students. We know that
without HBCUs, millions of Black stu-
dents would have been denied the op-
portunity to pursue higher education.
There simply was no place for them in
many places in this country. They
would have been left out of careers in
law, academia, agriculture, politics,
the sciences, and so many other fields.
Our country owes an enormous debt
to HBCUs. Key funding for HBCUs and
minority-serving institutions—MSIs—
expires September 30. Without this
funding, school budgets will be thrown
into chaos. They will likely consider
program cuts and layoffs. We need to
pass a clean extension.
The House has done its job and
passed the FUTURE Act. It seems the
House is always doing its job. It passes
legislation, and then the legislation
dies in the Senate graveyard. We have
seen it on issue after issue. This is as
important as any of them. We must
protect the HBCUs. We must extend
the mandatory funding for all MSIs for
2 years. It is time for the Senate to do
the same. HBCUs and MSIs have to
overcome enough hurdles every day to
educate their students. The Senate
should not be one of those hurdles. We
need to pass the FUTURE Act now.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF EUGENE SCALIA
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
would like to speak today about an old
friend and mentor, Gene Scalia. Gene is
a devoted husband and father, a bril-
liant lawyer, and a fairminded advo-
cate for workers and the rule of law,
and he is an outstanding choice to be
our next Secretary of Labor.
Gene has proven himself as a top
legal mind both in government and in
private practice. During the Presidency
of George W. Bush, he served as the top
lawyer for the Department of Labor,
where he stood up for workers by vigor-
ously enforcing the law. When Enron’s
executives defrauded and bankrupted
the company, Gene fought to recover
the retirement savings of employees
and pensioners.
In private practice, Gene fought out-
of-control bureaucrats who threatened
to undercut America’s position as an
industrial power. When Washington bu-
reaucrats tried to stop Boeing from
building its world-class Dreamliner in
South Carolina, he fended off the at-
tack. As a result, thousands of South
Carolinians today are employed in
good-paying manufacturing jobs, and
the world’s best airplanes continue to
be made right here in America.
Gene’s resume tells the story well
enough. It proves that he is a top ex-
pert in labor law who has devoted his
life to ensuring that workers and in-
dustry alike get a fair shake.
But his resume doesn’t tell the whole
story. I met Gene early in my short ca-
reer as a lawyer. He was one of my very
first bosses. So I got a window into his
leadership style and legal mind. I have
relied on his hard-earned wisdom and
counsel ever since, although, I have to
say, Gene was one of the very few law-
yers I knew who discouraged me from
leaving the law and joining the Army.
I think that is less a commentary on
my skills as a young lawyer and more
a commentary on his need to keep his
lawyers on his cases. But he came
around and introduced me to his broth-
er Matt, who remains an Army officer
to this day, and the Scalia family have
been good friends all along.
Gene Scalia is one of the most capa-
ble and decent men I know in Wash-
ington. His dedication to the law and
its just application is absolute. Work-
ing folks in this country deserve a
Labor Secretary of such integrity and
conviction, and Gene Scalia will be
just such a Secretary.
I urge all of my colleagues to confirm
him as our next Secretary of Labor.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
OVERTIME RULE
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, some-
thing happened in the last 48 hours or
so that affects 40,000 to 50,000 people in
my State and affects, literally, prob-
ably 1 million people or more around
the country. These are people who are
making $30,000, $35,000, $40,000, or
$45,000 a year.
Essentially, the President of the
United States robbed them of their
overtime. This isn’t histrionics. It is
not alarmist. It is fact. This is how it
works. If you are managing a fast food
restaurant and you are making $40,000
a year, and if the company decides to
call you the night shift manager—the
management decides to declare you as
management—it means they can work
you 45, 50, 55, 60 hours a week and pay
you not a cent—not pay you time and
a half. They don’t pay you time and a
half. They don’t even give you another
cent more than your 40 hours.
In other words, if you are a mod-
erate-income worker making $35,000 or
$40,000 a year—not enough to have a
middle-class lifestyle like you could
have had in this country 20 or 30 years
ago—and management decides they are
going to classify you as management,
they can work you as many hours as
they want without a cent of overtime.
Now, that has been a problem for
years. Five years ago, we fixed it. The
Vice President of the United States
with Secretary Tom Perez came out to
Columbus, OH. I worked on this issue.
We made this announcement at a small
manufacturing firm. They supported
this agreement, and many businesses
did. This would have meant that for
anybody making up to about $46,000 a
year, if they worked those extra hours
and they were called management,
from then on they were going to get
overtime—time and a half. That is
what overtime pay is about. That is
what the overtime rule is about.
President Trump loves to say that he
is on the side of workers, but you can’t
say you support workers individually if
you don’t support workers collectively.
The President says: I care about these
individual workers. If he really cared
about these individual workers, he
wouldn’t have, in essence, robbed 40,000
to 50,000 Ohioans—and I don’t know
how many million Americans—of their
overtime pay. We passed that rule. The
Obama administration sent the Sec-
retary of Labor to Columbus, OH, and I
was there when we made this an-
nouncement. On behalf of 150,000 Ohio
workers who were making $30, $40, $45,
and up to $46,000 a year, we celebrated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.019 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5687
September 25, 2019
that they were going to get time and a
half. If they were away from their fam-
ily, working those extra 10 hours,
which meant working 50 hours a week,
or an extra 20 hours and working 60
hours a week, they were going to take
home thousands of dollars in overtime
pay if they did that week after week.
This President says he is for workers.
Then, he changes this rule. In a sense,
he robbed those people. This new rule
deprives millions of workers, literally,
of the pay they have earned. It is as
disturbing as anything I have seen
from the President.
Like the Republican leader’s office
down the hall, I know the White House
looks like a retreat for Wall Street ex-
ecutives. In the White House, whatever
corporate America wants, this White
House gives them every single time. If
corporate America wants to block the
minimum wage, which hasn’t been in-
creased in 10 years, the President of
the United States blocks the minimum
wage. If corporate America wants this
overtime rule done away with, com-
promised, or half-obliterated, saving
millions of dollars for corporate Amer-
ica, the President of the United States
does their bidding.
To do a renegotiation of NAFTA, or
the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment, right to help workers, you en-
force worker rules, and you enforce
labor rules. The President backed off
from his campaign promise and didn’t
do it.
There were lots of tax cuts for the
rich. Almost 80 percent of the cor-
porate tax bill that President Trump
pushed through Congress goes to the
richest 1 percent of the people. It is a
betrayal. It is a White House betrayal
of workers every single day. For people
making $30,000, $40,000, $50,000, $80,000,
or $90,000 a year, this White House be-
trays them.
It is pretty simple. Think about the
dignity of work. Whether you punch a
clock or whether you swipe a badge,
whether you are raising children,
whether you are taking care of aging
parents, whether you are working on
tips, or whether you are working on a
middle-class salary, all work has dig-
nity. Instead, the President has under-
mined that worker.
And we all know something about
CEOs. When I was a kid, CEOs made
about 30 to 1 in CEO pay versus the av-
erage worker. Now it is about 300 to 1.
Who gets the tax cuts in this country?
The CEOs. Who gets hurt every time?
It is moderate wage earners.
I hear this talk of populism, that the
President is a populist. Well, populism
is never racist or never anti-Semitic. It
doesn’t divide people. It doesn’t push
some people down to lift people up.
That is what we have seen far too
much of.
To me, this overtime rule was sort of
the last straw. You give tax cuts and
massive giveaways to the wealthiest 1
percent and encourage more corpora-
tions to move overseas.
The President’s tax bill says this,
which is almost not even believable: If
you have a company in Mansfield, OH,
or Toledo, OH, you pay a corporate tax
rate of 21 percent. If you shut down
that production in Mansfield and To-
ledo and move to Guadalajara or
Guangzhou, you pay 10.5 percent. What
does that do? That means more compa-
nies are going to move overseas as
wages continue to be depressed in this
country.
I was in the White House with the
President in his Cabinet Room one day
during the tax bill. After he signed this
tax bill, he said: You’re going to start
seeing a lot more money in your pay-
check.
We know that was a lie. Corporations
reaped the benefits, and then spent
their windfall not on workers’ wages or
growing the company but on stock
buybacks.
General Motors received huge tax
cuts. They moved more jobs overseas
and they shut production in Ham-
tramck, MI, and in places like
Lordstown, OH. He stacked his Cabinet
and the National Labor Relations
Board with corporate stooges who
spent their whole careers undermining
workers on behalf of corporations. His
new Labor Secretary, Eugene Scalia, is
a corporate lawyer who has fought over
and over against worker rights. Think
about this. The Secretary of Labor—
whether it is a pretty conservative Sec-
retary of Labor, whom Republicans
over here are likely to support, or a
more progressive, pro-worker Sec-
retary of Labor, whom Democrats are
more likely to support—is usually
somebody who cares about workers and
workers’ rights. The new Secretary of
Labor appointed by President Trump is
a corporate lawyer. He spent his entire
career attacking workers, attacking
workers’ rights, trying to put unions
out of business, trying to encourage de-
certification of elections, and trying to
come down every time on the side of
corporations against workers.
I said this before. You can’t say you
care about workers individually, but
then you don’t side with workers col-
lectively. What does that mean? It
means when that workers have a
union, they get better pay, they get
better benefits, they have retirement,
they have healthcare, and they have
more job security and more safety in
the workplace. But if you say you care
about individual workers but you don’t
care about workers collectively, then
you simply don’t care about workers.
It comes down to this: Whose side are
you on? Are you on the corporations’
side or American workers’ side? Do you
fight for Wall Street or fight for the
workers and fight for the dignity of
work? Do you honor work? Do you re-
spect work? Do you pass legislation
that supports workers and rewards
work or do you pass legislation to
take, literally, thousands of dollars out
of the pockets of workers who should
be getting overtime but, because of
this new Trump rule, they lost their
overtime.
The President promised to fight for
American workers. He has broken that
promise over and over. If you love this
country, you fight for the people who
make it work. We don’t see that over
here. We don’t see that in the majority
leader’s office, and we sure don’t see
that in the White House.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for up to 15 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
am here for my 254th ‘‘Time to Wake
Up’’ speech. In the time I have been
giving these speeches, I have watched
the shifting trajectory of climate de-
nial. First, climate change was a hoax.
Then, there wasn’t enough science.
Then, the science is still uncertain.
Then, solving this problem would hurt
our economy. Then, innovation will
magically save us, and now there is a
new entrant in the climate denial lexi-
con: China. ‘‘China isn’t doing enough
on carbon emissions,’’ goes the argu-
ment. So we shouldn’t do anything at
all.
It is a talking point you hear all the
time from the fossil fuel industry and
its array of front groups working to
block climate action here in Congress.
Now, China has done plenty to com-
plain about. China has stolen our intel-
lectual property, manipulated its cur-
rency, jailed its political dissenters,
set unfair labor rules, and more. I have
been front and center with those com-
plaints about China. Yet, before we
offer up China as the latest ‘‘climate
denial lite’’ excuse for doing nothing,
let’s take a look at what China is real-
ly up to.
For starters, China is still a party to
the Paris climate accord, and China’s
President doesn’t say stuff like ‘‘wind
turbines cause cancer.’’ OK—a low bar,
I concede.
Our President recently tweeted:
Which country has the largest carbon
emission reduction? AMERICA! Who has
dumped the most carbon into the air?
CHINA!
Actually, that is not quite true. We
have still dumped more CO2 into the
air than China because we have been at
it longer, and we still dump a lot more
than China per capita, but China’s 1
billion people do put out more carbon
pollution than our 300 million. They
overtook us as the world’s top national
emitter in 2007. Last year, China ac-
counted for about 28 percent of global
CO2 emissions, and the U.S. accounted
for 15 percent. Cumulatively, China ac-
counts for 13 percent of emissions, and
the U.S. accounts for 25 percent, which
is about twice as much. Americans’ per
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.022 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5688 September 25, 2019
capita carbon emissions are among the
highest in the world. The average Chi-
nese citizen—China is here—accounts
for less than half the per capita emis-
sions of the average American.
We actually don’t have lots to brag
about on our emissions, but that is not
where it looks the worst for us. Forget
the past. Look to the future at climate
action. That is where China is blowing
us out of the water.
As the Trump administration slav-
ishly fronts for fossil fuel—and is even
turning the agencies of our government
over to this corrupting industry—
China is leaning in hard on a green en-
ergy future. China is resetting its econ-
omy for a clean energy future. China
began implementing a national cap-
and-trade system—a price on carbon—
for its power sector in 2018, which will
go into full force across the country
next year. Several provinces already
run cap and trade locally. This year,
China is launching a mandatory renew-
ables quota, requiring that 35 percent
of its electricity be renewable by 2030,
and its energy plan seeks 50 percent of
total electric power generation from
nonfossil sources by 2030.
China is also investing to dominate
clean energy manufacturing and tech-
nology. In 2017, nearly half of the
world’s new renewable energy invest-
ment took place in China—triple the
investment made in the United States.
China leads the world in renewable
power deployment with there being
more than twice as much capacity as
in any other nation. Almost 30 percent
of the world’s renewable power capac-
ity right now is in China, including the
most solar, the most wind, and the
most hydro. China dominates the glob-
al deployment of solar panels. It has
several times greater installed solar
generation capacity than the United
States. In fact, we virtually lost solar
panel manufacturing to China.
On this graph, China is the yellow,
and it shows China outdoing all of the
other countries in total capacity. We
are here compared to China there, and
the gray is the general category for the
rest of the world. China is even bigger
than the rest of the world, not count-
ing the United States, Japan, Ger-
many, and India.
So that is China’s lead in total re-
newable electricity deployment, with
more than double the installed capac-
ity of the United States and nearly a
third of the total global renewable
electricity capacity. Here is the world’s
total. There is China at 404. Then you
actually have to scale down the graph-
ic to get over here to the United States
at 180—180 to 404. If you count nuclear
power as clean energy, there is China.
China currently has the world’s larg-
est nuclear power construction pro-
gram. It has 37 nuclear reactors in op-
eration, 20 under construction, 40 in
planning, and proposals for an addi-
tional 100. Next generation nuclear
technologies originally designed in the
United States are among those Chinese
proposals. If all of those reactors are
built, China will end up with twice the
U.S. nuclear fleet.
In the transportation sector, we feel
pretty good in the United States. We
all see Teslas driving around, and
Chevy has its terrific Bolt. There are
emerging EV manufacturers, like
Rivian, that are proposing extremely
cool vehicles. Again, there is China—
far out front in building electric vehi-
cles and in deploying the infrastruc-
ture needed to run electric vehicles.
China now requires that 10 percent of
vehicles sold be electric or plug-in hy-
brids. This quota increases to 12 per-
cent in 2020. By the end of 2018, 45 per-
cent of all of the electric cars on the
planet were in China. Last year, China
manufactured nearly half of all of the
electric vehicles that have been manu-
factured in the world.
In other areas, it is China, China,
China. China dominates global markets
for electric buses and two-wheelers.
Exxon fabulously predicted to its
shareholders that there would be zero
electric buses by 2040; China is already
operating 400,000.
High-tech batteries will power trans-
portation and balance the electric grid
of the future. China is planning for
three times as much battery manufac-
turing capacity as the rest of the world
combined. Carbon capture will grow as
an industry as soon as it has a business
model, which, by the way, carbon pric-
ing, including China’s cap-and-trade
plan, will provide them. On carbon
pricing, there is China, with 20 carbon
capture projects under construction or
in development—more than in any
other nation.
Of course, it is not all good news on
climate out of China, not by any
stretch. The Chinese continue to build
more coal-fired powerplants than any
other country, not just in China but
around the world. However, the dif-
ficult truth for us is that China’s
progress on climate change is real, and
it is way more than ours. China is not
doing this to be nice. It is doing this to
outdo us economically and politically.
If we keep kicking our own renewable
industries in the teeth here in America
just to please Trump’s coal industry
donors while China invests in these
new technologies, we will be making a
losing bet. China’s one-party govern-
ment has put economic growth above
all else. Chinese scientists see the same
data that ours do. Chinese economists
see the same economic risks that ours
do. Chinese businesses see the same
threats and opportunities for their
workers and their supply chains that
ours do. Chinese cities see the same
threat from sea level rise that ours do.
Yet the Chinese Government has cho-
sen a smarter path because it is not
under the thumb of the fossil fuel in-
dustry. The Chinese are acting out of
self-interest. They are acting on cli-
mate because they want their country
and their economy to succeed. They
want to own these industries of the fu-
ture. Rather than compete, we are now
helping them win—all to make some
grubby political donors happy.
The Global Commission on the Econ-
omy and Climate reports that strong
climate action could deliver at least
$26 trillion in economic benefits world-
wide through 2030 compared with busi-
ness as usual—a $26 trillion relative
benefit. Over that period, these actions
would generate over 65 million new
low-carbon jobs globally and avoid over
700,000 premature deaths from air pol-
lution, by the way. Whoever acts swift-
ly will get the biggest share of these
riches.
Last year, Stanford’s economists
found that keeping global warming to
1.5-degrees Celsius as opposed to the
riskier 2-degree safety limit would
likely save more than $20 trillion in
economic damages around the world by
the end of this century—$20 trillion.
The world power that positions itself
to reap the economic benefits of a car-
bon-neutral technology and that helps
lead the world away from runaway cli-
mate calamities will garner tremen-
dous economic, strategic, and diplo-
matic advantage. In particular, China
recognizes the diplomatic advantage to
acting on climate as the United States
withdraws from its traditional position
of international leadership.
The last century has been called the
American century. We are fast handing
over the next century to become the
Chinese century. We are doing it to
ourselves, and we are doing it for the
worst of all possible reasons—to cater
to and kowtow to a corrupt industry.
Making sure that the next century is
the American century, as well, is as
good a reason as any for us to wake up
and act on climate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
UKRAINE
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, once
again, I come to the floor to call for ac-
tion in light of revelations that Presi-
dent Trump appears to have no prob-
lem in seeking the assistance of a for-
eign government for his own political
gain. Today’s summary of the tele-
phone call from the White House be-
tween him and a foreign leader exposes
this in black and white. Given this
White House’s lack of transparency, I
have little faith that this so-called
transcript reflects the totality of the
conversation, but what it did release
was shocking enough.
He clearly pressured the Ukrainian
Government to investigate former Vice
President Biden for his own political
benefit. He mentioned the Attorney
General of the United States or his per-
sonal lawyer six times, and in using
the levers of State, the President
sought to weaponize the Justice De-
partment to pursue a personal political
vendetta.
We now know that for more than 2
months, the President urged Ukraine
to investigate a political opponent
while holding $391 million in urgently
needed security assistance that Con-
gress appropriated to support U.S. na-
tional security interests. In fact, Con-
gress approved this security assistance,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.024 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5689
September 25, 2019
including $141.5 million from the U.S.
State Department and $250 million
from the Pentagon, with overwhelming
bipartisan support.
Indeed, for years now, the Repub-
licans and the Democrats have come
together to offer America’s support to
Ukraine in the face of relentless Rus-
sian aggression. We have stood to-
gether on Ukraine because we have
known what has been at stake. Our
friends in Ukraine sit on the frontlines
of a struggle against the Kremlin’s vi-
sion of a world that is not guided by
democratic values or the rule of law
but, instead, ruled by Putin and his
corrupt cabal of oligarchs. The Demo-
crats and the Republicans have stood
together behind a free and independent
Ukraine because, together, we stand
behind our shared values of freedom,
democracy, the rule of law, and human
rights.
We have stood in support of Ukraine
in pursuit of our own strategic inter-
ests in the region. That is why we came
together when Russian forces illegally
invaded Crimea in 2014 and worked to
bolster American support of Ukrainian
sovereignty. I was proud of that mo-
ment as the chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee at the time; that
we passed the Ukraine Freedom Sup-
port Act with strong bipartisan sup-
port. In an era of growing political di-
vides, our support for a democratic,
free, and sovereign Ukraine inspired us
to transcend partisanship and to work
together in common cause.
I applaud my Republican colleagues
who have worked on these efforts, who
have traveled to Ukraine, who have
been strong advocates for our partners,
standing up against Kremlin aggres-
sion.
That is why it is all the more puz-
zling that Republicans have largely
been silent over the past few days.
Whatever happened to solidarity with
Ukraine? Whatever happened to stand-
ing up to Russia? Whatever happened
to putting the national security of the
United States ahead of petty partisan
politics?
We have found ourselves with a
President in the White House who has
now sought to manipulate aid to
Ukraine to advance his own personal
political agenda.
Let’s examine what we know.
President Trump admitted that he
spoke with President Zelensky and
raised the issue of investigating the
family of Vice President Biden. That
was included in today’s so-called tran-
script of the congratulatory call with
President Zelensky.
We know that after Congress appro-
priated this funding, the Department of
State sent a notation to the White
House Office of Budget and Manage-
ment on June 21. We know delibera-
tions over this kind of funding typi-
cally just take 5 days. Instead, the
White House sat on this funding for 2
whole months.
My staff met with the State Depart-
ment last Friday. We tried to glean
what could be the cause for this delay.
Did the Department have an objection
to this money moving forward? No,
they did not.
Did they know why the White House
sat on it for 2 months? No, they did
not.
Did the White House ask them any
substantive questions on the security
assistance to Ukraine over these
months? No, they did not and neither
did the Defense Department.
In other words, the State Depart-
ment was unaware of any policy moti-
vation that could have delayed the dis-
persal of urgently needed security
funding to Ukraine. There was no pol-
icy motivation.
On the contrary, the revelations of
the past few days suggest a political
motivation. It appears that President
Trump’s willingness to use the powers
of his office for grossly inappropriate
behavior on the international stage is
pretty vivid.
We need to know exactly who in the
Trump administration played a role in
the improper withholding of congres-
sionally appropriated funding for
Ukraine and how. That is why today I
am calling for unanimous consent for
my bill, the Ukraine Foreign Assist-
ance Integrity and Accountability Act
of 2019.
This bill would require an inspector
general, State Department, investiga-
tion into the Office of Management and
Budget’s delay in obligating these
funds.
My legislation would require the
State Department to share all records
in its role in facilitating the Presi-
dent’s personal lawyer’s engagement
with the Ukranian Government.
It would require that the administra-
tion obligate all Ukranian security as-
sistance funds and authorize additional
funds to counter Russia malign influ-
ence across Europe.
It would also express solidarity with
the Ukranian people by imposing new
sanctions on Russia for its continued
aggression in eastern Ukraine. Those
sanctions would target Russia’s ship-
ping sector, oligarchs, and cyber at-
tacks.
I want to be clear that I am an advo-
cate of regular order in the Senate, but
we are in a crisis. It is a crisis poten-
tially of constitutional proportions, a
crisis that goes to the heart of our de-
mocracy, and how we respond to it will
forever define our willingness as a Con-
gress to defend the rule of law and live
up to our article I responsibilities.
President Trump has once again
stood in the way of congressional ef-
forts to support Ukraine and all of Eu-
rope in the face of Russian aggression.
The administration has once again
flouted the rule of law, this time with
the Acting Director of National Intel-
ligence refusing to disclose to Congress
the whistleblower complaint on Presi-
dent Trump’s conversations with Presi-
dent Zelensky—and we don’t know
what more—as he is mandated to do.
It is time for this Congress to stand
up for its article I powers. We need to
act quickly to send a message to the
White House and to the Kremlin.
If there is anything we have learned
from President Trump, it is that law-
lessness begets lawlessness. It is time
for us to remind the American people
and the world that the rule of law
means something.
We will not allow the corrupting of
our national security assistance. We
will not allow our relationship with
Ukraine to become a political football,
and we will not let the foreign policy of
the United States be corrupted for
campaign purposes.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2537
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Foreign
Relations be discharged from further
consideration of S. 2537; that the Sen-
ate proceed to its immediate consider-
ation; that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. RISCH. Reserving the right to
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, first of
all, let me say I concur with the good
Senator from New Jersey that we
should follow regular order.
He, like myself, has spent decades of
service in a legislative body, and we
both know this system works when the
committee system works.
Every legislative body is set up with
a committee system. Now, why is that?
One of the reasons is because people de-
velop an expertise in a certain lane,
and they can use that expertise on the
committee.
Most importantly, the issues regard-
ing a bill—whether it is good or bad or
whether it should be amended or what-
ever should happen to it—is best han-
dled in the committee system, where
people have an expertise in the area
that the bill goes to.
This bill goes to the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, which I chair—which
my good friend from New Jersey pre-
viously chaired—and it will be handled
in the regular order by that com-
mittee, but it is a bad way to do a piece
of legislation to draw it, drop it, and
then come to the floor and try to pass
it unanimously.
This piece of legislation was brought
to the committee yesterday, and it is a
piece of legislation that certainly de-
serves consideration but not this way.
I have not had a chance to even read
it, let alone study it, and that is true of
virtually every Member of the major-
ity party. I frankly don’t know wheth-
er the other members of the committee
who serve in the minority party have
had an opportunity to read it or to
study it or, for that matter, to prepare
amendments to it to make it better
and to move it along.
So given that, the committee system
is really important here. I don’t want
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.025 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5690 September 25, 2019
to really go into the merits of all this.
A lot of it is being debated out in the
hallway right now with the national
media and that sort of thing.
Look, what has happened over the
last few days here is really a poster
child for what has happened to the en-
tire Trump Presidency. A fair
amount—not all but a fair amount—of
the national media and a fair amount
of the minority party here have done
everything they can to delegitimize
this President, not the least of which is
taking anything that comes along and
attaching to it some nefarious idea,
some nefarious purpose.
Let me give you an example. My good
friend said: What happened to standing
up to Russia? This administration has
imposed more sanctions on Russia than
the entire 8 years of the previous ad-
ministration. So what has happened to
standing up to Russia? We continue to
stand up to Russia.
I think my friend from New Jersey
and I would be able to agree on the
many sins Russia has committed start-
ing way back, but if you go with fairly
recent history, their invasion of Geor-
gia and then their promise to back off
and to get out of Georgia—they still
occupy two of the regions in Georgia.
Of course, the invasion and takeover
of the Crimea, their cause of problems
on the eastern border of Ukraine, their
interference in Ukraine, their inter-
ference in our elections, their inter-
ference in all kinds of European elec-
tions, and it goes on and on, poisoning
people in London—I mean, that is
about as far out as you can possibly
get.
So we all need to stand together. We
all need to stand up to Russia, and this
administration has been doing it. They
are going to continue to do it. I think
virtually everybody here is urging
them to do it, and we are going to con-
tinue to do it.
Look, the argument that there was
some significant delay in moving funds
to Ukraine is simply not well-taken,
and the reasons for it, with all due re-
spect to my friend, I think, are well
known.
In fact, if you read the transcript of
this telephone conversation, the Presi-
dent himself raises the important issue
that he has raised with all of us from
time to time, and that is that any time
he sees the United States getting on
the short end of the stick with what-
ever you talk to him about, it raises an
alarm with him.
In this particular case, he has been
very distressed by the fact that we
have been carrying the bulk of the dol-
lars and cents for helping Ukraine. We
want to help Ukraine.
Senator MENENDEZ, I think, very
clearly laid out many of the problems
that have to do with Ukraine. The
country has serious problems, not the
least of which is corruption, but the
first reason he had issues with the
spending was the fact that Europe just
simply is not doing what they should
be doing in helping to fund this, and
that is clearly laid out in this tran-
script.
The second thing is the corruption
itself. When money goes into Ukraine,
it is a well-known fact that there is
tremendous corruption and graft with-
in the country and a lot of the money
disappears.
The most notorious institution with-
in the country is the gas company—in-
terestingly enough, the gas company
board on which Vice President Biden’s
son sat and was appointed to and has
received $50,000 a month to sit on after
the Vice President was tasked by
President Obama to look into the cor-
ruption and do something about the
corruption in Ukraine.
In any event, corruption is a big
problem and funds get diverted.
I am just going to close by saying,
look, every American that is interested
in this talking that is going on back
and forth about this call that the
President had with President Zelensky
should look at that transcript and read
it. It will take just a few minutes to
read it, and it will not take long to fig-
ure out that the mischaracterization of
this is off the wall.
It is absolutely amazing to me that
people would take this conversation,
which was a standard, ordinary, reg-
ular conversation that a head of state
has with another head of state, and
characterize it the way it is being char-
acterized.
It was a congratulatory call. There
was a lot of banter in it. My good
friend knows—he has met with a lot of
heads of state, as I have. Sometimes we
even meet together with heads of state.
It is common to have bipartisan meet-
ings with heads of state.
I don’t know whether people think
these things are scripted and that they
are focused directly on issues, but
there is always a lot of banter. The
banter can be in the form of having
conversations about family. It can be
talking about sports. Frequently, if
one of the teams has done well or poor-
ly, one party or the other will raise it
and talk about it. These things are
very informal, as this phone conversa-
tion was.
In my experience, one of the frequent
issues that is discussed in these con-
versations is local politics—what is
happening in your country, what is
happening in my country—and then
also a discussion of mutual issues with
friendly countries or, for that matter,
countries that are not friendly.
This call that the transcript was re-
leased on is very, very rare. If you are
looking for a window to see what actu-
ally happens in these calls, this tran-
script is a really good characterization
of what happens in these calls.
It is not a good thing to be releasing
these calls. I think heads of state
should be able to have these conversa-
tions—all of us should be able to have
conversations with our counterparts,
with a head of state, with Ministers in
the other countries without having to
be thinking about every word we say is
going to wind up being analyzed and
pulled apart and taken by your polit-
ical enemies and badly misrepresented.
Look, don’t take my word for it.
Don’t take Senator MENENDEZ’s word
for it. The transcript is all over the
internet right now. It is going to be
published in every newspaper probably
in America tomorrow. It takes just a
few minutes to read it. Read it and
take away for yourself the feelings you
have about it.
The President of the United States is
tasked with being the frontline of for-
eign policy. Yes, foreign policy is
shared by both the first and second
branch. It is one of those things the
Founding Fathers did not resolve 100
percent for one branch or the other,
such as appointments for the second
branch or such as appropriating for the
first branch.
There is sufficient authority given to
each branch of government, but the
head of state, in this case, the Presi-
dent of the United States, is tasked
with carrying on these relationships
with other countries.
This phone conversation that he had
is clearly, clearly, part of that. Don’t
take my word for it. Everybody make
up your own mind on this. It isn’t rock-
et science. As you can see, the English
is very straightforward. It can be un-
derstood. I think everybody will come
away with their own belief.
If people hate Trump, they are going
to look at that and say that this is ter-
rible, as a lot of people in this town
have done. I think most ordinary, good,
straight-thinking Americans are going
to look at this and say: What is the big
deal? It was a conversation between
two people talking about various issues
they were interested in, and it isn’t a
problem.
In any event, in order to preserve the
regular order, in order to preserve the
jurisdiction and the hard work of the
Foreign Relations Committee, Mr.
President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I un-
derstand we are supposed to be heading
to a briefing on Iran. I ask unanimous
consent for 2 minutes, and then I will
cease, and I ask unanimous consent for
my entire remarks to be included in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MENENDEZ. No. 1, it is not un-
usual for—there have been many times
when the urgency of the moment has
had legislation come to the floor. I
think this is one of those moments.
But I do appreciate the Chairman’s
suggesting that he will take up consid-
eration of this issue, and that is some-
thing I think is incredibly important.
On Russia, I would just say the con-
gressionally mandated sanctions,
which the committee and the Congress
passed, gave very little flexibility to
the administration and have been the
driver on sanctions on Russia. But
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.027 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5691
September 25, 2019
there is a lot that hasn’t been done
that Russia has done subsequently,
which we should be ultimately pur-
suing, and I look forward to the Chair-
man’s having a markup on DASKAA
and other related legislation to actu-
ally continue to fight Russia.
Lastly, I would simply say that hold-
ing money from Ukraine doesn’t make
other countries give money to Ukraine.
That was money that was directed by
the U.S. Congress, which was pro-
moted, as well, by the State Depart-
ment and the Department of Defense.
They had no concerns about corruption
as it relates to this money. They un-
derstood the importance of the secu-
rity assistance.
Finally, on the question of the tran-
script, overwhelmingly, there wasn’t
banter there so much as there was a di-
rect effort to get President Zelensky to
use his powers to investigate former
Vice President Biden’s son. That is
crystal clear, and any plain reading
will do it, and I do hope the American
people will read the summary.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate stands in recess until 3:30 p.m.
today.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 2:47 p.m.,
recessed until 3:30 p.m. and was reas-
sembled when called to order by the
Presiding Officer (Mr. COTTON).
f
RESOLUTIONS TO INSTRUCT
CONFEREES—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for as
much time as I consume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UKRAINE
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
rise to speak in opposition to the Re-
publican motion to instruct on paid
family and medical leave.
Before I move to the issue at hand, I
do want to address the very serious al-
legations against President Trump and
the new information we are learning
from the memo the White House re-
leased today.
It is deeply concerning to learn that
President Trump asked Ukrainian
President Zelensky to work with the
United States to investigate Vice
President Biden. Our democracy is at
risk, and President Trump has be-
trayed our country. I support Speaker
PELOSI in starting the impeachment in-
quiry she announced yesterday, and
the revelations today make these in-
vestigations even more necessary.
PAID FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
Mr. President, I now want to talk
about an opportunity that we have in
the Senate today to serve the Nation
by guaranteeing paid family and med-
ical leave for 2 million Federal workers
and their families through the Schatz
motion.
Every other industrialized country in
the world has some version of paid
leave, which allows workers to take
care of their loved ones when a medical
emergency arises. Yet the vast major-
ity of our workforce in America lacks
access to paid leave. That means far
too many of our workers are unable to
take paid time off if they need to care
for a new child, a sick parent, or their
spouse. Sadly, this includes 2 million of
our Federal employees—and I know the
Presiding Officer is aware of this, given
his own family situation—but we have
a chance to fix that right now. I urge
my colleagues to vote yes on the
Schatz motion.
However, Senate Republicans have
offered an additional motion that
would block this benefit from every
other working American. This is noth-
ing short of an attack on all workers’
access to affordable and accessible paid
family and medical leave.
What my Republican colleagues are
suggesting is that our workers should
work overtime to compensate for fam-
ily leave. Their motion would require
workers to shift around their hours and
take on more hours in order to receive
the paid time off they need in an emer-
gency situation or when welcoming a
new child.
Let me be very clear. This is not a
benefit. It is a cynical plan that would
erode our American workers’ abilities
to make ends meet and harm their ac-
cess to real paid leave. It would hurt
those who need this the most, includ-
ing women, communities of color, and
low-wage workers.
Most workers living paycheck to pay-
check will not be able to take extra
shifts to earn paid leave. Too many
families across the country don’t even
have $400 in savings for emergency ex-
penses. Take Shelby Ramirez Martinez,
for example. She found herself in the
most untenable situation when her
daughter and her father both had si-
multaneous surgeries scheduled.
Shelby is a mom of two, caregiver to
her father, and a full-time student and
security officer. She didn’t have access
to paid leave, so she was forced to take
2 weeks off and forgo her pay. She
couldn’t have planned for that by
working overtime and sacrificing time
with her daughter or with a flex sav-
ings account. What Shelby and all
Americans need is dedicated and ex-
tended time off for medical emer-
gencies and births.
The Republican motion to instruct
calls for employer tax credits that are
handouts to large and rich companies
like Google, which already provide paid
leave and leaves taxpayers footing the
bill. They are false incentives for small
businesses that still will not be able to
afford the leave.
My bill, the FAMILY Act, would pro-
vide 12 weeks of paid family and med-
ical leave for all workers. It is the only
comprehensive proposal that is acces-
sible and affordable for all working
Americans. It is modeled off of very
successful State programs like Califor-
nia’s, ensuring that working Ameri-
cans do not have to choose between
their family and their paycheck.
It shouldn’t be so hard. So many
workers around the country have new
children, sick spouses, or elderly par-
ents, and they need access to paid
leave. Today, let’s stand together and
reject fake paid leave by voting no on
the Ernst motion to instruct, for peo-
ple like Shelby and her family.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
HUAWEI
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
come to the Senate floor to urge adop-
tion of two resolutions that are going
to be considered by the U.S. Senate, in-
structing the conferees to the NDAA
bill, which is the Defense authorization
bill. One of those motions urges the
conferees, or directs the conferees, to
adopt bipartisan legislation introduced
by Senator COTTON, who is now the
Presiding Officer in the Chair, and me
and others. It is called the 5G act, and
it deals with Defending America’s 5G
Future Act. What it does, very simply,
is codify the Trump administration’s
Executive order putting Huawei on
what is called the entity list and then
making sure that before there is a
change to this, if you wanted to take
them off entirely, that would require a
congressional action. But it also says
that if you want to seek waivers under
that act, you should come to Congress
and at least give Congress the oppor-
tunity to disagree. This is very impor-
tant to protect our security, to protect
U.S. technology from theft. I urge my
colleagues to support that resolution.
DETER ACT
Mr. President, I am also here to urge
my colleagues to support another reso-
lution. This one is directing the con-
ferees to the Defense authorization bill
to support a motion and resolutions
put forward by Senator RUBIO and me
and others—again, a bipartisan resolu-
tion, making it clear that we should
deter foreign interference in U.S. elec-
tions. It is based on the principles of
bipartisan legislation, a bipartisan act
that we have introduced called the
DETER Act. The idea is very simple,
which is this: We want to say up front
that our intelligence communities, or
others in the administration, should
inform Congress immediately if there
has been interference in our elections.
If the answer is yes, that would trigger
immediate and stiff sanctions on what-
ever foreign government is acting to
interfere in our elections.
We can spend a lot of money and re-
sources protecting our election infra-
structure and our election systems,
and we should do that. We can urge all
of the social media companies to im-
prove their platforms and make it
more difficult for foreign governments
and adversaries to use those platforms
to influence and impact our elections.
None of those measures actually im-
pose a big cost on a foreign government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.028 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5692 September 25, 2019
like Russia for interfering in our elec-
tions. All those things do is make it
harder, and we should make it harder.
In this case, the best defense is a good
offense, meaning the best defense to
having a foreign government inter-
fering in our elections is to discourage
and deter them from doing that in the
first place.
Right now, what we have learned is
there is no cost to Vladimir Putin and
the Russians for interfering in our elec-
tions. In fact, they assess that they get
a significant benefit from creating di-
vision within the United States. If you
are Vladimir Putin and you are doing a
cost benefit analysis—should I inter-
fere in the U.S. elections or not?—you
conclude: Hey, I am going to gain
something by creating this kind of di-
vision and confusion within the United
States. What we should be doing is say-
ing in advance and up front to Vladi-
mir Putin and Russia or any other for-
eign leader or government, if we catch
you interfering in our elections, you
will definitely pay a price in the form
of sanctions against some of your fi-
nancial institutions or key aspects of
your economic sector. We need to spell
that out in advance.
This resolution requires that Con-
gress be notified after the election as
to whether we have detected foreign in-
terference. Next time, someone like
Vladimir Putin will know in advance
that if we catch them, there will be a
price to pay, a penalty to pay. That
will, of course, discourage the activity
in the first place.
It doesn’t cost us a dime to do this.
Yes, we should continue to spend
money, as I said, to harden our systems
at home and better defend ourselves.
For goodness’ sake, we should at least
take the position that we are going to
let foreign powers know in advance, if
we catch you—and by the way, we will
catch you if you interfere in our elec-
tions—there will be an immediate and
severe price to pay.
I urge my colleagues to unanimously
support this resolution. It is appro-
priate that we are directing the con-
ferees to the National Defense Author-
ization Act to include this provision
because, after all, the reason we invest
in our defense is to protect our country
and to protect our democracy. That
bill should include a provision telling
foreign powers: If you mess around and
interfere in our Democratic elections,
you will pay a price. That will make it
less likely they will do so to begin
with.
I urge adoption of the resolution.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
VOTE ON S. RES. 330
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the Van Hol-
len resolution to instruct.
The resolution (S. Res. 330) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
VOTE ON S. RES. 331
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, there will be 2 min-
utes of debate equally divided prior to
the vote on the resolution to instruct.
The Senator from Arkansas is recog-
nized.
S. RES. 331
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I would
like to speak briefly about our resolu-
tion, which is to instruct the conferees
to adopt the bipartisan Defending
America’s 5G Future Act into the con-
ference report.
Huawei is no ordinary telecom com-
pany. It is the eyes and ears of the Chi-
nese Communist Party. That is why
the administration earlier this year
put it on the Commerce Department’s
blacklist. It is a rare action that both
Republicans and Democrats can sup-
port.
Our legislation, to a large extent,
codifies that decision to keep Huawei
on the blacklist and to ensure that
Congress has a say on any exclusion,
say for a small rural telecom that
needs time to transition. We might
pass a resolution of disapproval if we
oppose that action. But, most impor-
tantly, it is to ensure that Congress af-
firmatively acts to pass a resolution of
approval to remove Huawei from the
blacklist, because that is where Huawei
belongs and where they should stay
without a decision of the people’s rep-
resentatives in Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I join
with my colleague, the Senator from
Arkansas, in this bipartisan motion to
instruct.
Huawei is a menace. It is a menace to
our national security. It is a menace to
our economic growth. It is a menace to
the future of America in many ways. If
we are not tough with Huawei, whom
are we going to be tough with? If we
are not tough with Huawei, what are
we going to do when China continues
to take advantage of us in ways that
are unfair—whether it be economic, na-
tional security, cyber, or whatever.
This resolution will ensure that the
conferees know that the Senate is
strongly in support of being tough with
Huawei on national security grounds,
on economic grounds, and, basically,
on ensuring that America stays No. 1
in many of the leading technologies
that we will need to create job growth,
wealth, and prosperity in the future.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion to instruct.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I request
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 91,
nays 4, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 303 Leg.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—4
Crapo
Enzi
Paul
Risch
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The resolution (S. Res. 331) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the re-
maining votes in the series be 10 min-
utes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON S. RES. 332
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, there will be 2 min-
utes of debate equally divided prior to
the vote on the Jones resolution to in-
struct.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. JONES. Colleagues, today we are
about to vote on a resolution that will
correct a long-held injustice—one that
has been on the books for decades; one
that has caused significant pain to
military spouses who have given so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:02 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S25SE9.REC S25SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5693
September 25, 2019
much for our country. It is an elimi-
nation of the military widow’s tax. It
has been voted on in this body for over
18 years and has never gotten across
the finish line. Now is the time. This is
our time to make sure that we tell our
veterans that we are supportive but we
show it with our actions, not just with
our words. I urge everyone to please
vote to instruct the conferees to elimi-
nate the military widow’s tax.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who
yields time in opposition?
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I
agree with the comments made by the
Senator from Alabama. There is one
problem with this, and that is, it is not
paid for. I am supporting it. I am actu-
ally a cosponsor of the bill and was a
cosponsor of the bill long before this
year, but we are going to have to really
get busy to figure out how to pay for
this. It is very expensive. But I do en-
courage people to vote for it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on adoption of the Jones
resolution.
Mr. SASSE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 94,
nays 0, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 304 Leg.]
YEAS—94
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Burr
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The resolution (S. Res. 332) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
VOTE ON S. RES. 333
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
will be 2 minutes of debate equally di-
vided prior to the vote on the Schatz
resolution.
The Senator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, this
resolution urges the inclusion of the
Federal Employee Paid Leave Act in
the final conference agreement on the
NDAA. This resolution provides 12
weeks of paid family leave for Federal
employees in all situations already
covered under the FMLA.
Too many of our Federal employees
have to make the impossible choice of
getting a paycheck or looking after a
sick child, caring for an aging parent,
or recovering from a health condition.
As a result, many have been forced to
leave their jobs and obtain other em-
ployment.
Paid family leave is not only the
right thing to do for Federal workers,
but it is the smart thing to do for our
Federal workforce. This is the most
practical and fiscally responsible way
to provide family leave for Federal
workers.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who
seeks time in opposition?
All time has expired.
The question is on agreeing to the
Schatz resolution.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 47,
nays 48, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 305 Leg.]
YEAS—47
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—48
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The resolution (S. Res. 333) was re-
jected.
VOTE ON S. RES. 334
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, there will be 2 min-
utes of debate equally divided prior to
the vote on the Peters resolution to in-
struct.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, let me
be frank. Today, our water and our
health is at risk from highly
fluorinated chemicals known as PFAS.
These chemicals have been widely used
commercially, and they are also con-
centrated in firefighting foams used by
the Department of Defense. They are
toxic, and they have been linked to se-
rious health issues in those who are ex-
posed to them.
High levels of PFAS contamination
exist at the former Wurtsmith Air
Force Base in Oscoda, MI, and at mili-
tary sites all across our country.
My resolution would retain the Sen-
ate language prohibiting the Depart-
ment of Defense from using firefighting
foams containing PFAS chemicals to
the end of 2023.
PFAS-free foams are already widely
used internationally by military serv-
ices and at major hub airports, such as
Heathrow and Dubai.
We must protect our troops, our fire-
fighters, our communities, and our
water.
I urge my colleagues to support my
resolution.
I yield back all remaining time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
is yielded back.
The question is on agreeing to the
resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 334) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:03 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S25SE9.REC S25SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5694 September 25, 2019
VOTE ON S. RES. 335
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, there will be 2 min-
utes of debate equally divided prior to
the vote on the McSally resolution.
Mr. DURBIN: Mr. President this
week, the Senate will vote again on
whether or not the President was right
in using a phony emergency declara-
tion in order to take money meant for
our military and put it toward his me-
dieval wall on the southern border.
In March, we voted overwhelmingly,
on a bipartisan basis, to repeal this
declaration. I hope we can do so again.
We may also vote on a resolution of-
fered by the junior Senator from Ari-
zona which calls on Congress to ‘‘back-
fill’’ $3.6 billion in cancelled military
construction projects. This means
should we give the President $3.6 bil-
lion to replace the $3.6 billion that he
stole for his wall.
There are no protections attached to
this backfill, meaning there is nothing
ensuring that he can’t steal from our
military again. It is said that the defi-
nition of insanity is doing the same
thing over and over and expecting a
different result. We should not vote to
hand over more money without a guar-
antee that it will actually go to our
military this time. The McSally reso-
lution contains no such protection, so I
urge my colleagues to vote against it.
Maybe you doubt that the President
would repeat his border tricks. Well, a
senior administration official admitted
that he actually did plan to do it again
in the Washington Post on Friday. The
headline reads, ‘‘Trump officials con-
sidering plan to divert billions of dol-
lars in additional funds for border bar-
rier.’’
Yes, the President has already made
our military pay $6.1 billion for his
wall, but apparently that was just
round one. Talking about the bills be-
fore Congress for fiscal year 2020, an
unnamed official told the Post, ‘‘The
plan is to sell it as replenishment
money to the Defense Department for
the $3.6 billion they took this year.
Then once they got it from Congress,
they would take it again.’’
It is a breathtaking statement. The
question for this Chamber is, Are we
really going to continue to play along?
Remember, this $3.6 billion taken from
military construction projects will
cause direct harm to our military per-
sonnel, their families, and our Nation’s
security posture around the world.
Don’t forget, that came after the White
House took $2.5 billion last spring from
our military, funds which should have
gone to other military priorities were
instead diverted to a political promise.
What were some of these 127 can-
celled military construction projects in
26 States and Territories and on U.S.
bases around the world? The Pentagon
prioritized rebuilding National Guard
facilities and a school for military chil-
dren in Puerto Rico. Congress agreed
and provided $400 million, but the
President took it away a few weeks
ago, and their hope is gone.
Joint Base Andrews in Maryland
needed a new childcare facility, to re-
place one filled with mold and over-
crowded rooms. Congress agreed. But
the President took it away with his de-
cision. Similarly, Fort Campbell, KY,
lost a new school for military children.
U.S. bases in Europe lost projects
meant to reassure our allies and deter
Putin’s Russia. U.S. bases in South
Korea and Japan lost projects meant to
deter North Korea and China. All of it
and more was labeled a top priority by
the Pentagon and cancelled by the
President anyway. This puts our men
and women at real risk.
The Air Force notes that without one
of the cancelled projects its base would
be, ‘‘vulnerable to hostile penetration
in the midst of contingency operations
and an increased terrorist threat.’’ An-
other cancelled project to upgrade a
munitions side would make it difficult
for U.S. fighter and bomber aircraft to
operate properly.
Congress should reject the Presi-
dent’s phony declaration and reject the
idea that Congress should throw good
money after bad. Congress must re-
assert its powers with these votes this
week.
Mr. THUNE. All time is yielded back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion.
Is there a sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant legislative clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO), and the Sen-
ator from North Carolina (Mr. BURR).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 306 Leg.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—42
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Burr
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The resolution (S. Res. 335) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that following
disposition of the resolutions to in-
struct on S. 1790, the Senate proceed to
executive session and vote on the mo-
tions to invoke cloture on the Hyten
and Scalia nominations in the order
filed; further, that the mandatory
quorum calls be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON S. RES. 336
Under the previous order, there will
be 2 minutes of debate equally divided
prior to the vote on the Ernst resolu-
tion to instruct.
The Senator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I urge my
colleagues to support this resolution to
ensure that Congress is working to-
ward commonsense, effective family
leave solutions. It is well past time we
made paid parental leave a reality in
this country. Affording all moms and
dads the flexibility to spend time with
their new baby is something Americans
want to see happen.
While I appreciate the resolution by
my colleague from the State of Hawaii,
putting Washington insiders and Fed-
eral employees first doesn’t add up as
the right first step. I believe we need to
think more broadly about this issue
and how it impacts hard-working fami-
lies in Iowa and across the country.
We all recognize there are significant
barriers for new, working parents to
spend time with their baby during
those critical and precious first few
months. That is why I am working
with Senator MIKE LEE on a proposal
to offer paid parental leave to all new
parents in a way that is both budget
neutral and flexible. In fact, a number
of Republicans and Democrats are
working on potential pathways for-
ward.
At the heart of all of it, we simply
cannot lose sight of the fact that we
need solutions that work for all Amer-
ican families, not just those fortunate
enough to have a government job. If we
are serious about enacting paid family
leave policies, instead of scoring polit-
ical wins, we will support the resolu-
tion before us.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:05 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S25SE9.REC S25SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5695
September 25, 2019
Families are the bedrock of our soci-
ety. Let’s look for solutions that all
Americans can embrace.
I urge my colleagues to support this
resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
urge my colleagues to oppose this
amendment because, as it is written, it
really rewards only companies that are
very wealthy and successful with addi-
tional tax credits to do something they
are already doing. By that measure, it
will leave most American workers
without basic access to leave.
The other potential idea is about
shifting hours and suggesting that
workers have to work overtime to be
able to have paid leave. Every parent
in America, every person in America,
will have a time when they have a fam-
ily crisis—whether it is a dying parent,
whether it is a sick spouse, whether it
is a new child—and we are still the
only industrialized country in the
world that doesn’t have access to na-
tional paid leave. We should be able to
come together around this common-
sense solution that Senator SCHATZ has
offered to create at least the first step
to make sure our Federal workers
aren’t disproportionately harmed be-
cause they can’t compete with the pri-
vate sector.
I oppose this amendment, and I urge
my colleagues to oppose it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the Ernst
resolution.
Mr. THUNE. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California, (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 55,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 307 Leg.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Burr
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The resolution (S. Res. 336) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
Record under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Gen. John E. Hyten for appoint-
ment as Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and for appointment in the United
States Air Force to the grade indicated while
assigned to a position of importance and re-
sponsibility in accordance with title 10,
U.S.C., sections 154 and 601: to be General.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, John
Cornyn, Richard C. Shelby, John Bar-
rasso, Johnny Isakson, Richard Burr,
Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Mike Crapo,
James E. Risch, Roy Blunt, John Booz-
man, John Thune, David Perdue, John
Hoeven, Steve Daines.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of General John E. Hyten for appoint-
ment as Vice Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and for appointment in
the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a po-
sition of importance and responsibility
in accordance with title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tions 154 and 601: to be General, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 73,
nays 21, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 308 Ex.]
YEAS—73
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—21
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Duckworth
Ernst
Gillibrand
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Schumer
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 73, the nays are 21.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of Labor.
Lamar Alexander, Mike Braun, Pat Rob-
erts, John Boozman, John Thune,
Johnny Isakson, Mike Crapo, John
Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Mike
Rounds, Cory Gardner, Steve Daines,
Tim Scott, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Barrasso, Jerry Moran, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that the debate on the nomina-
tion of Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S25SE9.REC S25SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5696 September 25, 2019
be Secretary of Labor, shall be brought
to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 309 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—42
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 549
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I rise to speak about my amendment to
H.R. 549, which grants temporary pro-
tected status, or TPS, for Venezuelans
from Nicolas Maduro’s oppressive re-
gime and reforms the broken TPS pro-
gram.
I would like to thank my friends,
Senator MARCO RUBIO and Congress-
man MARIO DIAZ-BALART, who have
been tireless advocates for the Ven-
ezuelan people as we fight for freedom
in Latin America and across the globe.
I am proud to have worked with Sen-
ator RUBIO, along with my colleague
from Utah, Senator LEE, and other Re-
publican Senators to offer protection
for the Venezuelan people while mak-
ing necessary reforms to TPS.
The crisis in Venezuela is a defining
human rights issue of our time.
Maduro is starving his own people, and
innocent children are dying. What is
happening in Venezuela is pure geno-
cide. We have to act, but we also need
to be responsible. The courts have basi-
cally made a temporary program per-
manent, which is not sustainable.
My amendment protects the vulner-
able Venezuelan population while mak-
ing sure that human rights violators
are clearly identified as ineligible to
come to the United States. My bill
grants TPS for Venezuelans right now.
The amendment also makes much-
needed reforms to our TPS program.
The amendment grants TPS to Ven-
ezuelans for 18 months. It requires con-
gressional approval for TPS extensions,
no more than 18 months at a time. My
amendment limits the ability of illegal
aliens with no connection to the TPS
designation to benefit from TPS. It en-
sures that human rights violators iden-
tified under the Magnitsky Act are not
eligible for TPS status. It includes pro-
visions to distinguish that TPS status
does not count as admission for pur-
poses of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act. Under my amendment, TPS
recipients cannot return to the TPS
country during the period of designa-
tion. And finally, the amendment re-
quires that current TPS designations
will come up for congressional review 2
years after the enactment of this
amendment.
We want those seeking refuge from
war and oppressive regimes to have a
safe haven in our country, but we need
a system that works and that is truly
temporary.
I am honored to work with my col-
leagues to get something done today to
help Venezuelan families and to make
some much-needed changes to our bro-
ken system.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to address the Senate in Spanish.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(English translation of the statement
made Spanish is as follows:)
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. We need TPS
now. I stand with the people of Ven-
ezuela, and I will continue to fight for
freedom and democracy in Latin Amer-
ica. It is time for Maduro and his thugs
to leave power.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Judiciary Committee be discharged
from further consideration and the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of H.R. 549. I ask unanimous
consent that the Scott of Florida
amendment be agreed to and that the
bill, as amended, be considered read a
third time and passed, and that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object, every Mem-
ber of the Senate knows that Ven-
ezuela’s illegitimate dictator, Nicolas
Maduro, has created an unprecedented
and harrowing humanitarian crisis in
that country. Extreme food and medi-
cine shortages, widespread criminal vi-
olence, and brutal state-sponsored re-
pression have forced more than 4.3 mil-
lion Venezuelans to flee their home-
land. This number could be 8 million by
the end of next year.
As Venezuelans flee their country, it
is time for the United States to place
itself fully on the side of the Ven-
ezuelan people.
Unfortunately, just this week we
have seen news stories about the
Trump administration deporting Ven-
ezuelans from Florida. It is uncon-
scionable that anyone would be sent
back to the catastrophic humanitarian
conditions that exist in Venezuela.
That is why, in February of this year,
Senator DURBIN and I, along with Sen-
ators RUBIO, LEAHY, and BOOKER, intro-
duced bipartisan legislation to provide
TPS to Venezuelans living here in the
United States. The House of Represent-
atives has already passed a version of
this bill back in July, with support
from dozens of Republican Members.
However, rather than providing TPS
for vulnerable Venezuelans in the
United States, the junior Senator from
Florida has brought up an amendment
that seeks to overhaul existing TPS
statute and make it easier for the
Trump administration to strip status
from vulnerable migrants who are le-
gally in the United States.
Respectfully, the suggestions that
the courts have made it impossible to
end any TPS is just not based in fact.
This debate is not about watering down
our immigration laws. It is about using
the laws that we have right now to pro-
vide protection to Venezuelans so that
we can ensure that the Trump adminis-
tration doesn’t deport them back to
the nightmare they fled.
While I join the Senator in the same
goal, it is unfortunate that the Senator
from Florida would prefer to pass legis-
lation that advances the administra-
tion’s immigration agenda rather than
help the Venezuelan people—something
we all agree about.
As a matter of fact, we don’t even
really need congressional action be-
cause the President has the right to
give temporary protected status to the
Venezuelans living in the United
States and he doesn’t need an act of
Congress to do that. He has failed to do
that. It is in that failure that the
House of Representatives acted to try
to create a legislative response.
For all these reasons, I object to the
unanimous consent request of the Sen-
ator from Florida.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Since the Senator
from Florida and I do agree on the need
to provide TPS for Venezuelans, as in
legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent that the Judiciary Committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.043 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5697
September 25, 2019
be discharged from further consider-
ation of H.R. 549, the bill that has al-
ready passed in the House, and the Sen-
ate proceed to its immediate consider-
ation; further, that the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed, and
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Reserving the
right to object, I object on half of my
colleague, Senator RAND PAUL.
What I propose is a bill that grants
TPS to Venezuelans right now. It also
makes much-needed reforms to the
TPS program and gives Congress real
oversight.
I am very disappointed that my
Democratic colleagues would block
this commonsense compromise. Repub-
licans support it. The sponsor of the
House-passed bill supports it. I believe
the President would sign it. It is clear
that the Democrats actually don’t
want to get something done on this
issue. Unfortunately, they decided to
use the Venezuelan community as a po-
litical prop, instead of working with us
to find a solution. I think that is
shameful. Even though the Democrats
stood up and blocked TPS for Ven-
ezuelans today, I will never stop fight-
ing to support the Venezuelan commu-
nity here.
My amendment is a solution that can
be passed by Congress and signed into
law by the President. I hope my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle will
help us to get this done.
We cannot lose sight of the fact that
Nicolas Maduro is killing his citizens.
It is genocide. Every passing day, the
situation on the ground grows worse.
Hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans
are fleeing the violence and starvation
of Maduro’s socialist regime, and they
need our help.
While extending TPS to Venezuelans
is the right move, the United States
and freedom-loving nations around the
world need to do everything in our
power to isolate Maduro in Venezuela
and cut off the supply of money from
Cuba to Caracas.
It is time to help Venezuelan fami-
lies. It is time to get TPS reform done
in this country. Temporary protected
status was never meant to be endless.
It was meant to help families in need.
We need to get this program to work.
We need to get TPS for Venezuelans
today.
I look forward to working with all
my colleagues to help all the families
in Venezuela and finally get a real
long-term solution to TPS.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, very
briefly, I regret that my colleague has
gone down the road of questioning po-
litical motives here.
The reality is, in a bipartisan way,
the Senator from Florida joined with
us in February of this year to provide
legislation that would provide TPS for
Venezuelans and the United States.
The House of Representatives, which
has a Democratic majority—and he
mentions the Democrats—passed a
version of this bill in July of this year
with the support from dozens of Repub-
lican Members, a bipartisan effort in
the House of Representatives.
At the end of the day, it doesn’t take
undermining TPS—dramatically
changing TPS—in order to give Ven-
ezuelans temporary protected status.
That is something the President could
do without having the House of Rep-
resentatives or the Senate act, but he
has chosen not to. There are those who
want to try to create an excuse for the
President, but he has chosen not to do
it, No. 1.
No. 2, the reality is, if we wanted to
create TPS for Venezuelans, we could
immediately do that right now by ac-
cepting my unanimous consent request
because the House of Representatives
passed it with broad, bipartisan sup-
port. We could do it right now. It would
be on the way to the President, and
then, of course, he would have to sign
the legislation even though he could do
it on his own right now.
I hope we can work toward the goal
of actually giving the Venezuelans that
opportunity who are living in the
United States and seeking refuge from
the violence, from the chaos that is
Venezuela, but I am not ready to un-
dermine all of the temporary protected
status in order to do that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
RETIREMENT POLICY
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am
on the floor tonight to talk about re-
tirement security, which is something
everybody cares about. Who doesn’t
want peace of mind in retirement?
When I am back home, I hear about
it all of the time, partly because a lot
of people are worried about the costs
they are going to have in retirement,
including long-term care costs. A lot of
people are seeing their parents and
their grandparents living longer,
healthier lives; yet they do not have
their retirement nest eggs in order to
keep up. So we need to do something to
help on that.
Social Security is there as the safety
net. It used to always be there, but
that is what it is, just a base amount:
$1,200 a month. It is not very much, but
it is the average for some folks in my
home State of Ohio. You have to have
a private retirement savings that adds
to that, and that can mean the savings
you have in your bank account. The
best way to do it is through a 401(k) ac-
count at your work where the em-
ployer, hopefully, puts a match in. So
it is a good deal for you because you
put money in, and your employer puts
money in, and you get to have a tax de-
duction for it. Even if you are not at
work, you can take an individual IRA.
With the IRA, it is the same thing
wherein you get a tax deduction. That
is good. Some companies have the de-
fined benefit plan. That is the old pen-
sion plan. That is great if you have
one. Not as many workers do anymore,
but we want to preserve those that are
left. For those who are Federal Govern-
ment employees, they do have the Fed-
eral employees’ pension plan, which
works for them.
All of this together is incredibly im-
portant right now for the people I rep-
resent, and people are worried about it.
Some of the statistics are actually
pretty scary of a lot of people who
work for small businesses who don’t
have access to plans altogether. They
just don’t have any opportunity to get
retirement savings plans. As an exam-
ple, about 50 percent of the workers in
these small businesses are in that cat-
egory. Over time, we have tried to ad-
dress some of these issues. Right now,
fortunately, the U.S. Senate has a few
bills that it could take up that would
actually help in that.
I have been working on this issue for
a number of years—actually, about 20
years—going back to my days in the
House with now-Senator BEN CARDIN.
We passed legislation to expand how
much you can put into a retirement ac-
count—a 401(k), an IRA. We increased
the amount. There are the catchup
contributions that some people are fa-
miliar with. There is also what is
called auto enrollment, whereby com-
panies automatically enroll you unless
you choose not to enroll, which helps
to get the participation rate way up,
from about 75 percent up to 95 percent.
We have done some things that have
helped, and because of that, I know
that, if you provide more incentives for
retirement, it works because it worked
back in 2001. In fact, if you look at
what has happened since then, total re-
tirement savings have increased from
about $11 trillion to about $29 trillion
since 2001. By the way, this means
there are more resources available in
our economy because there are more
savings, and savings are good things
for investment. There is a higher
GDP—higher economic growth—great-
er access to capital for small busi-
nesses and so on. So this has worked.
By the way, these retirement nest
eggs have increased among every in-
come quintile since 2001 when you ad-
just it for inflation. It is not just the
people at the higher end or even in the
middle; it is people who are of low in-
come, middle low, middle income, and
higher income who have all benefited
from this. As I said, we have a lot more
to do because, even with that Social
Security, which is a safety net, it is
really tough to live on that. People are
not saving enough through their pri-
vate savings and their retirement
plans.
We need to finish the work that we
started. We also need to fix some out-
dated regulations that just don’t make
sense in today’s world. I am chair of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.044 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5698 September 25, 2019
what is called the subcommittee on re-
tirement within the Committee on Fi-
nance. We are working on these pro-
posals on a bipartisan basis, and we are
making some progress. I am going to
tell you about some of those bills now.
One bill is before the Senate right
now in the sense that it has already
passed the House. It is called the SE-
CURE Act. One is a larger bill that
does more than the SECURE Act that
has been introduced by Senator CARDIN
and me. Then there is a small provision
I want to mention tonight that has
been introduced separately, which is
also in the SECURE Act. It is an ur-
gent thing to pass because there are a
bunch of people who are going to lose
their retirement benefits unless we
pass it very soon. Let me back up and
give you some of the troubling facts
about why we need to do something
here.
First of all, fewer than half of the
employees who are, again, at small
businesses—businesses with fewer than
50 workers—have access to plans. The
problem is really in our smaller busi-
nesses, and we know that. Larger busi-
ness all tend to have 401(k)s. Many
have defined contribution plans like a
401(k), and others have defined benefit
plans like pensions. They tend to have
retirement options for workers, but
many of the small businesses do not.
Even when workers have access to
plans, there are still only 34 percent
who participate.
Amongst small businesses, there are
fewer plans than there should be, but
there are also fewer people partici-
pating. Only 22 percent of part-time
workers are in plans. Now, increasingly
in our economy, people have part-time
jobs or may have a few part-time jobs,
but they don’t have retirement plans in
any of them.
By the way, when you look at this in
terms of the folks who are not partici-
pating, low-income Americans are also
not participating as you would want.
Only 22 percent of low-income families
are participating in retirement plans.
Many of them don’t have the dispos-
able income to be able to contribute,
and we will talk about that in a second
as to how to address that problem.
The final problem I want to mention
does not have to do with the small
businesses or part-time workers or low-
income workers. It has to do with what
we talked about at the beginning,
which is people who outlive their re-
tirements. Let’s face it. We are living
longer and healthier lives as Ameri-
cans, and that is a good thing, but a lot
of people didn’t or couldn’t plan for
that. They may have thought, I have a
nice, little nest egg here, and I have a
401(k), and I am going to retire at age
65. Yet, when they are in their late
eighties or nineties, they realize there
just wasn’t enough set aside. Here is an
opportunity for us to address that as
well.
Earlier this year, Senator CARDIN and
I introduced legislation called the Re-
tirement Security and Savings Act,
and it addresses all of these problems
that I mentioned. It has more than 50
reforms, actually, to help Americans
achieve this goal of safe, secure retire-
ments—peace of mind—after their
working for years and letting people
retire with dignity. It has a few impor-
tant provisions that I want to mention
tonight. I won’t go into all 50, but I
will mention some of them.
First, to increase this low 22-percent
coverage among low-income workers,
it expands what is called the saver’s
credit. This has worked well, but it is
not refundable now, which means, for a
lot of people who are of low income,
they can’t take advantage of it because
they don’t have the income tax liabil-
ity, particularly with the new tax bill,
frankly. For a lot of people, it has ac-
tually lowered taxes so that they don’t
have the ability to take a deduction,
but they can use a credit. We changed
the saver’s credit to expand it so that
it is more usable, and we make it re-
fundable. We don’t make it refundable
to individuals but, rather, refundable
to a retirement account because you
don’t want to just provide more fund-
ing out there that is not going to be
used for this correct purpose of retire-
ment. It has to go into your retirement
account. In addition, it increases the
credit amount so as to be available to
a lot of low-income savers. This is real-
ly going to help get people to be able to
save for retirement, again, who are
working but who are not saving.
The bill also addresses the problem of
only 22 percent of part-time workers
being in plans. It requires employers to
allow part-time workers who have com-
pleted 2 years of service to participate
in 401(k) plans. This is a big deal to the
AARP, as an example, and it is one rea-
son it is strongly supporting this bill.
By the way, this is also being sup-
ported by a whole group of businesses,
nonprofits, and others. People love this
bill because it is going to help people
to save for retirement. What is not to
like there? Particularly with regard to
part-time workers, our saying, ‘‘if you
have completed 2 years of service, you
need to have access to a 401(k) plan,’’ it
is going to help.
It also allows employers to make
matching contributions to the 401(k)
accounts of employees who are paying
off student loans who otherwise
wouldn’t receive a full match. Why? It
is that they have to choose between
paying down the student loan debt
they have and saving for retirement. I
really like this idea. It is an innovative
one. It was first proposed by Senator
RON WYDEN, by the way, who is the
ranking Democrat on the Committee
on Finance.
I think this will really help the peo-
ple who are, again, going into the
workforce. They have these student
loans. They have to pay off that debt,
but they can’t afford to put money into
401(k)s. This enables them to put that
money into the match, and it helps to
get them started on retirement. On av-
erage, the student loan debt now for
someone who comes out of one of our 4-
year colleges or universities is $27,000.
That makes it tough for a lot of people
to get started in life.
To get at this problem, we talked
about a few small businesses having
plans. Portman-Cardin increases the
tax credit that small businesses receive
for one’s starting a retirement plan. It
is $500 now, and we take it up to $5,000.
That is a tenfold increase that will
really help small businesses, we are
told. This is why they support the bill.
It also provides an innovative tax
credit idea. Small businesses will get a
tax credit if they automatically enroll
their employees in the plans at least
every 3 years. What does this mean? We
talked about auto enrollment earlier
and that, if you have auto enrollment
in your company, your participation
rate goes up to 95 percent from about
75 percent. Why? It is that people come
into the workforce and might not sign
up for a 401(k), but if they are auto-
matically signed up, they are not going
to say no, right? This way, they will
start to get a little of the payroll taxes
and a little of their paychecks going
toward retirement. They will find out
that this works. They will start their
nest eggs, and they will like them, so
they will stick with them.
It is the same thing here. If at least
every 3 years you have to automati-
cally enroll your employees, what will
happen? You will get people into these
plans, and they will stay in these
plans. This is going to be a big deal in
small businesses, and we think it is
worth giving them a tax credit for it. It
is kind of an innovative idea.
For small businesses, our bill also re-
duces some of the burdensome and du-
plicative regulations that are associ-
ated with administering the plan be-
cause, for a lot of small businesses,
they don’t have lawyers or general
counsel; they don’t have professionals
who can help on this. Yet the HR peo-
ple would sure like to have the ease of
the administration of these plans. So
we do that, which is important in order
to get more of these small businesses
to offer these plans.
We also address the problem we have
talked about with Americans living
longer and healthier lives and being in
danger of outliving their retirements.
For those who are following this close-
ly because they are getting close to re-
tirement, they should pay attention
here because this could be helpful. To
help the folks who have accumulated
retirement savings preserve those nest
eggs—to help to preserve your hard-
earned nest eggs—the bill actually
changes what is called the required
minimum distribution rules.
If you are in your late sixties or
maybe turning 70, you may be shocked
to have just found out that—guess
what—you have to start distributing
money out of the 401(k) that you have
or the IRA that you have under what is
call the required minimum distribution
rules.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.048 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5699
September 25, 2019
My dad was a little surprised by that
because he was still working at age 701⁄2
when you have to start doing that.
By the way, a lot of people back
home are still working at age 701⁄2, and
they want to keep their retirement
nest egg there. They want to keep
building it up because they hope they
are going to live a long life, and they
want make sure they have something
in there, but instead, no, when you are
701⁄2, you have to start taking it out
and paying taxes on it.
So we changed that from 701⁄2 to 75.
We do it over a few years because it is
an expensive provision, frankly, in this
bill, but we pay for it through other
means. The idea is you want to let peo-
ple keep that money in their nest egg.
By the way, if your nest egg is $100,000
or less, there is no minimum required
distribution anymore under our bill.
So for people who, again, are 701⁄2 and
are wondering, ‘‘Why do I have to start
taking this money out? I have 65,000
bucks I have saved up all these years,
and I am still working,’’ or ‘‘I don’t
need to take it out for retirement,’’ let
them keep it in that plan. If there is
under 100,000 bucks in your account,
keep it in going forward forever. If you
have more than 100,000 bucks in there,
then for that additional amount, you
don’t have to start taking it out until
you are 75, under our bill.
So this is going to really help the
people to ensure that they can set
aside money for retirement, and they
know it is going to be there when they
need it.
Our new Portman-Cardin retirement
legislation has the potential to fun-
damentally reshape for the better how
large numbers of Americans approach
their retirement planning, and that is
a good thing. I look forward to getting
it passed through the Finance Com-
mittee and sent to the Senate floor for
a vote.
As I said earlier, even before we can
get this broader package done, we have
a smaller bill that is sitting here in the
Senate. It has already passed the
House. It is called the SECURE Act. It
actually passed the House almost
unanimously—417 to 3. That rarely
happens, and that shows you the kind
of bipartisan support it has. It is not as
comprehensive as the bill I just talked
about, but it does have some good pro-
visions.
It has that increase in the small em-
ployer tax credit, for instance, we
talked about. It also raises this min-
imum required distribution to age 72—
from 701⁄2 to 72—which is good. It
doesn’t go to 75, and it doesn’t have the
$100,000 improvement we have, but it
does help. It also helps long-term part-
time workers contribute to 401(k)s,
which is good.
So we go further in our bill, but this
SECURE Act is a good step in the right
direction. I support it. I support bring-
ing it up and passing it. It already
passed the House.
I do think we ought to allow a couple
of amendments on each side because
this SECURE Act that passed the
House has not been voted on, on this
floor before. It came out of our com-
mittee back in 2016, I believe, so it has
been a while. There hasn’t been any de-
bate on it or deliberation. Why not
allow a few amendments on it on each
side?
Democrats probably have a few
amendments they would like to offer.
Republicans have a few they would like
to offer. The point is, let’s get that bill
up and get it passed.
Then there is this final bill I was
talking about. It is part of the SE-
CURE Act, which is on the floor right
now ready to go. It has also been intro-
duced separately, and this is to address
an urgent problem right now that is af-
fecting over 450,000 Americans.
Now, it gets a little complicated
here, as retirement plans do some-
times. These are people who are in
these defined benefit plans, pension
plans, and they are in businesses that
have shifted from a defined benefit
plan to a defined contribution like a
401(k). These are businesses that have
said: We are not going to have an addi-
tional pension anymore. We are going
to go to a 401(k) where individuals con-
tribute and individuals control their
account.
Now, what happened in some of these
businesses is they said: But if you are
already in a defined benefit plan, you
can stay in. We are going to freeze your
plan going forward so new employees
can’t go into it, but you can stay in
your plan, and I think that is fair. Let
people who are in the plan who have
paid in all these years continue to stay
in that defined benefit plan as they re-
tire.
The problem is, inadvertently, the
rules with regard to pensions are trip-
ping these people up because there is
something called the nondiscrimina-
tion income testing. In other words,
you can’t have too many of the bene-
fits go, in a defined benefit plan, to
people who are more on the high end of
income. It has to be spread out.
Well, think about it. The people who
are left in these plans are people who
are older because the new employees
have had to go to the defined contribu-
tion plan. So it is an older group of em-
ployees and, therefore, more highly
compensated because they have been
given raises over time, so they trigger
this nondiscrimination income testing,
and they lose their benefits. They can’t
continue to accrue benefits.
That is just wrong. These are people
who have played by the rules, done ev-
erything right. Through no fault of
their own but through this quirky reg-
ulation, which was never meant to ad-
dress this kind of an issue, they are
facing the very real possibility—
450,000-plus people—that they are going
to lose their benefits through no fault
of their own. They should be able to
continue to accrue benefits and get
this retirement plan they have worked
so hard to be able to enjoy. Nobody
really disagrees.
Again, it is in the SECURE Act. We
have introduced it separately. Around
here you run what is called a hotline
with your fellow Senators to see if any-
body objects to this if it is a non-
controversial piece of legislation.
So we did that with this, and, guess
what, this legislation was approved by
everybody on the Republican side. No-
body had a problem with it. Again, it is
just a question of being sure these
flawed rules aren’t inadvertently hurt-
ing these 450,000 Americans.
Then we ran the hotline on the
Democratic side, and it was also very
popular over there, but at least one
person objected—maybe more but at
least one.
So we are trying to work on this to-
gether to try to get it done. We found
out the objection is not based on the
legislation at all. No one has any prob-
lem with the legislation. It is based on
their interest in not allowing anything
that is in the SECURE Act to be done
separately because they want to be
sure the SECURE Act gets done. I want
to be sure the SECURE Act gets done
too. It is an important bill. It is the
first step in the right direction, as we
said, but let’s not take it out on these
employees. If we don’t fix it, then by
this yearend, like in the next couple of
months here, these people are going to
lose their benefits.
So my hope is, now that we have
tested the waters and found out it is
not controversial among my col-
leagues, let’s just bring it up under
unanimous consent, get it done, and
then let’s move on and do the SECURE
Act too.
So my hope is we will be able to do
that. It has been introduced, again, as
a standalone bill. So it is not like it is
the other parts of the SECURE Act
that are only in the SECURE Act. It is
standalone so it shouldn’t violate any-
body’s sense of fairness to say: Let’s
deal with this separately and get it
done.
I thank Chairman CHUCK GRASSLEY
and Ranking Member WYDEN for help-
ing on this because they have been sup-
portive of the SECURE Act, they have
been supportive of dealing with this
quirk in the law that deals with these
450,000 people who are going to lose
their benefits, and they have been sup-
portive of us doing this broader retire-
ment savings package as well.
I hope we can get them done. Let’s do
it in order. No. 1, let’s get the Retire-
ment Security Preservation Act done.
That is the 450,000 people, and let’s just
do that by unanimous consent. Every-
body agrees to it.
Let’s move to the SECURE Act, get
that done. Again, that was passed in
the House almost unanimously, and
then let’s move on to this broader
Portman-Cardin legislation we talked
about tonight. It really deals with
these issues of small business coverage.
It deals with the issue of low-income
workers needing to save more. It deals
with the issue of part-time workers
having to save more. It deals with this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.045 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5700 September 25, 2019
issue of being sure that people aren’t
outliving their retirement savings.
Again, of the 50-plus provisions in
there, there is a lot that really helps
the people I represent back in Ohio and
folks all around the country. They de-
serve us in Congress to be focused on
these kinds of issues. This is exactly
what people expect us to do here, help
them ensure they have peace of mind
in their retirement. We are doing all
we can to provide the incentives to
make that happen.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO CORNELIA DOZIER
COOPER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
great works of artistic expression are
so much more than something simply
to look at or listen to. They are often
a reflection of the artist, her commu-
nity, and a unique culture. Kentuckian
Cornelia Dozier Cooper recognizes the
encouraging effect of creative works,
and she has spent her lifetime pro-
moting them in eastern Kentucky. It is
a privilege to recognize my dear friend
Cornelia, who was recently selected to
receive our Commonwealth’s highest
artistic honor: the Milner Award. In
tribute to her accomplishment and phi-
lanthropy, I would like to extend my
sincere congratulations for this well-
deserved honor.
Born in Madisonville, KY, Cornelia
developed a passion for the arts at an
early age. Supported by her parents
and a fostering education, she grew her
skills in both visual and musical arts.
She was quickly recognized for her tal-
ent and studied English watercolor at
the prestigious Oxford University. I
have had the privilege to visit
Cornelia’s home, where I admired her
beautiful watercolors up close. Her own
artistic works, in which she hopes to
display the glory of God’s creation,
were just the beginning of her con-
tributions to Kentucky.
With her husband, Richard Cooper—
brother to another outstanding Ken-
tuckian, Senator John Sherman Coo-
per—Cornelia’s devotion to the arts ex-
tended far beyond her own brush and
canvas. She sought to give her fellow
Kentuckians the opportunity to create
great works of art and to be inspired by
them in their communities. Cornelia
worked with several organizations, in-
cluding as a founding member of the
Kentucky Arts Council, promoting as-
piring talents in her home of Pulaski
County and throughout the Common-
wealth. She also established the Cor-
nelia Dozier Cooper Endowment Fund
for the Arts, providing grants to sup-
port a variety of eastern Kentucky art-
ists. The endowment is funded, in part,
by the proceeds from the sale of her
own watercolors.
At a ceremony in the Kentucky Cap-
itol Rotunda, surrounded by artistic
works celebrating the Bluegrass
State’s illustrious history, Cornelia re-
ceived her Milner Award. Even at the
age of 93 Cornelia still brings the same
enthusiasm to promoting young art-
ists. To many throughout Kentucky,
she is a mentor and a creative inspira-
tion. Her selfless philanthropy will cer-
tainly continue to encourage young
artists to develop their talents and fol-
low their passions. I am grateful to
Cornelia for her friendship and her life-
time spent enriching our home State.
She has certainly earned this distinc-
tion. I ask my Senate colleagues to
join me in congratulating this remark-
able Kentuckian, Cornelia Dozier Coo-
per.
f
TRIBUTE TO GENERAL JOSEPH
DUNFORD
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I have
been honored to know and work with
many of the leaders in our military.
One of the absolute finest I have known
is General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., the
outgoing Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff. I have known General Dunford
for years, certainly in his current ca-
pacity, but before that as Commandant
of the Marine Corps. As the father of a
marine, I looked at Joe Dunford as the
best the Corps could have and what we
all want from the men and women serv-
ing and leading the Marine Corps.
General Dunford has had a long and
distinguished career of service as a ma-
rine. He was deployed during Operation
Iraqi Freedom, earned the nickname
‘‘Fighting Joe’’ while serving under
James Mattis, and led the U.S. and
NATO forces in Afghanistan. He is ad-
mired by the men and women who
served under him and is known for his
respect and care for civilians caught up
in conflict.
Marcelle and I were honored to travel
with him to Vermont in 2017, where he
gave the commencement address at St.
Michael’s College, 40 years after his
own graduation at that same institu-
tion. He told the graduates about to
step out into their futures, ‘‘have the
moral courage to do what’s right, even
when it’s tough. Commit to serving
something bigger than yourself.’’ Like
General Dunford, I am a graduate of
St. Michaels, and Marcelle has an hon-
orary degree from St. Michaels. Also
like General Dunford, I did my grad-
uate work at Georgetown.
I mention his background because he
is not a man that would ever brag
about all the things he has done. Rath-
er, he speaks to the values that he be-
lieves America should follow. I listened
to him, standing in his uniform, speak-
ing to these young men and women
who were graduating. You could hear a
pin drop in the hall, except for the
times when they would interrupt his
speech with standing ovations.
He has led by service his entire ca-
reer. He thought always of the men and
women under his command. He thought
of their families. He thought of our fu-
ture and the world we would leave to
our grandchildren. His legacy will be
measured by his presence on the battle-
field, but perhaps more so by the capa-
ble leadership he has brought that will
be felt for generations to come. That is
truly the mark of an exceptional and
visionary leader.
General Dunford and his wife Ellyn
are looking forward to their retire-
ment, but I do hope that academic and
public institutions will call on him for
his expertise and his knowledge, but es-
pecially his conscience.
I ask unanimous consent that an ar-
ticle from the Washington Post, enti-
tled ‘‘Joseph Dunford’s steady hand in
the turmoil of Trump’s Washington,’’
by David Ignatius be printed in the
RECORD, as it so eloquently captures
the general’s legacy and service to our
Nation.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Washington Post, Sept. 12, 2019]
JOSEPH DUNFORD’S STEADY HAND IN THE
TURMOIL OF TRUMP’S WASHINGTON
(By David Ignatius)
Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who will retire
this month, is that rare senior official in
Donald Trump’s Washington whose career
and reputation don’t seem to have been tar-
nished by his dealings with the president.
The explanation is simple: The low-key,
Boston-Irish Marine maintained the distance
and discipline of a professional military offi-
cer. He didn’t try to be Trump’s friend or
confidant, and he stayed away from palace
intrigue. The White House treated him with
respect, and his fellow commanders came to
regard him with something approaching awe:
‘‘We’d all like to be Joe Dunford,’’ says one
four-star general.
In the ceaseless turmoil of the Trump ad-
ministration, Dunford has been a steady
hand who helped insulate national security
policy from disruption and political pres-
sure. His Pentagon colleagues say he will be
keenly missed—several described him as the
best chairman in recent decades—and they
are hoping Gen. Mark Milley, his successor,
can sustain the independence and cool judg-
ment that defined Dunford’s tenure.
Dunford doesn’t like talking about his re-
lationship with the White House. The closest
he has come was probably a Pentagon news
briefing last month: ‘‘I’ve worked very hard
to remain apolitical and not make political
judgments. . . . I work very hard to provide
military advice . . . and make sure that our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25SE6.045 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5701
September 25, 2019
men and women in uniform have the where-
withal to do their job.’’
‘‘Joe Dunford is a man for all seasons,’’
says Jim Mattis, the former defense sec-
retary and a fellow Marine. ‘‘Joe has a quiet
mind, not easily distracted; he quantifies
things, but he brings in the nonquantifiable.
Still waters run deep in him. You simply
can’t shake his faith in his fundamental val-
ues.’’
Mattis cites two combat anecdotes to ex-
plain Dunford’s unflappable style. In March
2003, on the eve of the invasion of Iraq,
Mattis told Dunford that because of a last-
minute change of plans, his regiment had to
move out in five hours, rather than at dawn
the next morning. ‘‘He just took it in
stride,’’ says Mattis.
A few days later, Dunford’s unit had fought
its way to the Tigris River, with the loss of
some Marines, and was ready to seize a stra-
tegic bridge. Mattis told him he had to fall
back until conditions were safer for the as-
sault. Dunford obeyed that painful retreat
order without hesitation, Mattis says.
Dunford was born for the job. The son of a
Marine who fought at Chosin Reservoir dur-
ing the Korean War, he grew up in Quincy,
Mass., a working-class suburb of Boston. Col-
leagues say he retained those grounded val-
ues throughout a rapidly rising career.
Gen. Frank McKenzie, head of the Central
Command and another fellow Marine, re-
members that Dunford faced a delicate prob-
lem as a young lieutenant colonel on the
staff of the Marine commandant. He had to
manage a popular but misplaced protocol of-
ficer. He promptly removed the officer, to
the consternation of some politically power-
ful friends.
Dunford’s dream was probably to become
Marine commandant himself, and after he
was appointed to that position in 2014,
friends say he assumed it was his last mili-
tary post. When President Barack Obama
nominated him chairman in 2015, ‘‘he took
the job with a Catholic sense of guilt’’ to do
his duty, says one friend.
On Dunford’s desk as chairman, he placed
the admonition of a venerated predecessor,
Gen. Omar Bradley, who cautioned his staff
that they didn’t have the ‘‘luxury’’ of focus-
ing on just one theater but needed to think
globally. Dunford has prodded the different
services and combatant commands to do just
that—move toward integrated global strat-
egy, rather than separate fiefdoms.
Dunford built a powerful joint staff to co-
ordinate policy, directed by strong officers
such as McKenzie and Adm. Michael Gilday,
the new chief of naval operations. The joint
staff’s importance grew as the interagency
process of the National Security Council de-
cayed. Some grouse that the joint staff is
now too powerful, but it helped fill a dan-
gerous vacuum.
In dealing with Trump, Dunford’s friends
say his model was Gen. George C. Marshall,
the celebrated wartime chief of staff to
President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Marshall
didn’t try to be FDR’s pal, or laugh at his
jokes, or join his social gatherings. Marshall
simply did his job.
One four-star general recalls that Trump
would sometimes ask Dunford whether he
liked a particular policy option. ‘‘I’m not in
love with any of them,’’ Dunford would an-
swer. ‘‘My job is to give you choices.’’
It’s Dunford’s legacy that in a time of na-
tional tumult and division, the military
seems to have remained steady as a rock.
(At the request of Mr. THUNE, the fol-
lowing statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, due to a
family matter, I am unable to be in
Washington, DC, today. I informed
Senate leaders of this commitment
several weeks ago.∑
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–47 concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of Qatar for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $86 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–47
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Qatar.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $17 million.
Other $69 million.
Total $86 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase: Qatar requested a pos-
sible sale of two (2) AN/AAQ–24(V)N Large
Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures
(LAIRCM) systems to protect two (2) Boeing
747–800 Head-of-State aircraft. Each LAIRCM
system consists of three (3) Guardian Laser
Turret Assemblies (GLTA), one (1) LAIRCM
System Processor Replacement (LSPR), five
(5) Missile Warning Sensors (MWS), one (1)
Control Indicator Unit Replacement (CIUR),
one (1) Smart Card Assembly (SCA), and one
(1) High Capacity Card (HCC/User Data Mem-
ory (UDM) card.
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Twelve (12) Guardian Laser Turret Assem-
blies (GLTA) (6 installed, 6 spares).
Seven (7) LAIRCM System Processor Re-
placements (LSPR) (2 installed, 5 spares).
Twenty-three (23) Missile Warning Sensors
(MWS) (10 installed, 13 spares).
Non-MDE: Also included are LAIRCM
CIURs; SCAs; HCCs; UDM cards; initial
spares; consumables; repair and return sup-
port; support equipment; engineering design;
integration; hardware integration; flight test
and certifications; selective availability
anti-spoofing modules (SAASM); publica-
tions and technical documentation; training
and training equipment; field service rep-
resentatives; U.S. Government and con-
tractor engineering, technical, and logistics
support; and other related elements of logis-
tics and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (QA-
D-BAB).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: QA-D-QAA
and QA-D-QAF.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
September 24, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Qatar—Large Aircraft Infrared Counter-
measures (LAIRCM) System for Head-of-
State Aircraft
The Government of Qatar has requested to
buy two AN/AAQ–24(V)N Large Aircraft In-
frared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) systems
to protect two (2) 747–800 Head-of-State air-
craft. This proposed sale will include: twelve
(12) Guardian Laser Turret Assemblies
(GLTA) (6 installed, 6 spares); seven (7)
LAIRCM System Processor Replacements
(LSPR) (2 installed 5 spares); twenty-three
(23) Missile Warning Sensors (MWS) (10 in-
stalled, 13 spares); Control Indicator Unit
Replacements (CIURs); Smart Card Assem-
blies (SCAs); High Capacity Cards (HCCs);
User Data Memory (UDM) cards; initial
spares; consumables; repair and return sup-
port; support equipment; engineering design;
integration; hardware integration; flight test
and certifications; selective availability
anti-spoofing modules (SAASM); publica-
tions and technical documentation; training
and training equipment; field service rep-
resentatives; U.S. Government and con-
tractor engineering, technical, and logistics
support; and other related elements of logis-
tics and program support. The estimated
cost is $86 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to improve the security of
a friendly country that continues to be an
important force for political and economic
progress in the Middle East. Qatar is host to
the U.S. Central Command forces and serves
as a critical forward-deployed location in the
region.
The proposed sale will improve Qatar’s ca-
pability to deter regional threats. The self-
protection suite will facilitate a more robust
capability into areas of increased missile
threats. Qatar will have no difficulty absorb-
ing this equipment and capability into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor will be Northrop
Grumman, Rolling Meadows, IL. There are
no known offset agreements proposed in con-
nection with this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale may
require the assignment of a U.S. Government
and/or contractor representatives to Qatar to
provide the field service support as re-
quested.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.014 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5702 September 25, 2019
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–47
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The AN/AAQ–24(V)N LAIRCM is a self-
contained, directed energy countermeasures
system designed to protect aircraft from in-
frared-guided surface-to-air missiles. The
system features digital technology and
micro-miniature solid-state electronics. The
system operates in all conditions, detecting
incoming missiles and jamming infrared-
seeker equipped missiles with aimed bursts
of laser energy. The LAIRCM system con-
sists of multiple Missile Warning Sensors,
Guardian Laser Turret Assembly (GLTA),
LAIRCM System Processor Replacement
(LSPR), Control Indicator Unit Replacement
(CIUR), and a classified User Data Memory
(UDM) card containing the laser jam codes.
The UDM card is loaded into the LSPR prior
to flight; when not in use, the UDM card is
removed from the LSRP and put in secure
storage. The Missile Warning Sensors (MWS)
for AN/AAQ–24(V)N are mounted on the air-
craft exterior to provide omni-directional
protection. The MWS detects the rocket
plume of missiles and sends appropriate data
signals to the LSPR for processing. The
LSPR analyzes the data from each sensor
and automatically deploys the appropriate
countermeasure via the GLTA. The CIUR
displays the incoming threat for the pilot to
take appropriate action. The LSPR also con-
tains Built-in-Test (BIT) circuitry. LAIRCM
hardware is CLASSIFIED only when a classi-
fied UDM card is inserted into the system
and it is powered up. LAIRCM system soft-
ware, including Operational Flight Program
and jam codes, are classified SECRET. Tech-
nical data and documentation to be provided
is UNCLASSIFIED.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
3. A determination has been made that
Qatar can provide substantially the same de-
gree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This sale is necessary in furtherance
of the U.S. foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of Qatar.
f
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, today
I wish to celebrate the 129th birthday
of Dwight D. Eisenhower. Eisenhower
was a fellow Kansan, a strong trail-
blazer, and an exceptional American.
His lifetime traversed many important
eras in our Nation. Ike was born as the
American Frontier came to an end, and
passed away only a few months before
the United States stepped foot on the
Moon, beginning an exploration into
the new frontier of space.
Born in Denison, TX, on October 14,
1890, and raised in Abilene, KS, Eisen-
hower grew up in a humble environ-
ment. He always worked hard for what
he wanted. From his early years of
working 12-hour shifts at a creamery,
to pursuing an education at the U.S.
Military Academy, to earning the rank
of Supreme Commander of Allied
Forces in Europe during World War II,
to becoming the leader of our Nation
and the free world, Ike continually
strived for the best. Like so many of
his generation, he achieved a great deal
for himself and our country, but didn’t
seek personal credit for his accom-
plishments. Eisenhower’s determina-
tion, leadership, and honorable char-
acter are the reasons that he remains
respected around the world to this day.
In fact, just 2 years ago in 2017, histo-
rians with expertise on Presidential
rankings revised previous figures to
now include Eisenhower among the top
five of all U.S. Presidents.
Although there are numerous exam-
ples of Ike’s international respect, one
particular instance can be drawn from
his 1945 Guildhall Address. After Eisen-
hower received the key to the city of
London upon leading the Allies to vic-
tory in World War II, he said, ‘‘No
petty differences in the world of trade,
traditions, or national pride should
ever blind us to our identities in price-
less values. If we keep our eyes on this
guidepost, then no difficulties along
our path of mutual co-operation can
ever be insurmountable. Moreover,
when this truth has permeated to the
remotest hamlet and heart of all peo-
ple, then indeed may we beat our
swords into plowshares and all nations
can enjoy the fruitfulness of the
Earth.’’
Today, we are surrounded by Eisen-
hower’s enduring leadership and ideas.
The effects of his creative innovation
and his focus on the future gave us the
Interstate Highway System, the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, the
Saint Lawrence Seaway, NASA, and
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, now known as the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services,
and the Department of Education. Ike
also supported legislation that wel-
comed Alaska and Hawaii into the
Union; eradicated segregation in our
Armed Forces; and deployed the
Army’s 101st Airborne to Central High
School in Little Rock, AR, ensuring
that the law of educational integration
was followed by all States.
As the chairman of the Dwight D. Ei-
senhower Memorial Commission, I am
pleased to announce that the comple-
tion of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Me-
morial, commemorating and memori-
alizing the general and President, is on
budget and on schedule. A dedication
ceremony is slated for May 8, 2020, the
75th Anniversary of the Allied Victory
in Europe, V–E Day, during World War
II. It is truly exciting to realize that,
in about 7 months, our Nation will
dedicate a Presidential memorial in
Washington, DC, celebrating the life
and legacy of Dwight D. Eisenhower.
I ask you to join me in honoring Ei-
senhower’s 129th birthday. Ike not only
championed the free world as an excep-
tional military strategist, but also led
our country to times of prosperity
serving as a visionary guardian of the
country’s well-being. Hailing from
America’s heartland and devoting his
life to the pursuit of liberty, Ike left
behind an extraordinary legacy that
created a better, more peaceful world.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING MARCA BRISTO
∑ Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I
come before the Senate today to honor
the life of Marca Bristo: a trailblazer,
an activist, a mother and—to me and
so many others—a hero. She passed
away this month at the age of 66, after
spending the last four decades on the
frontlines of the disability rights
movement.
With every day that passed and every
fight she took on, Marca redefined the
word resilience. It was thanks in large
part to her decision to get out of her
wheelchair and crawl up the steps of
the Capitol Building to help pass the
Americans with Disabilities Act that I
can roll through its corridors to cast
my vote in its Chamber three decades
later.
She climbed up those steps to tear
down the barriers that had been hold-
ing us back. She got onto her hands
and knees so the rest of us could rise,
working tirelessly to turn the ADA
from a dream to a law that enshrines
the basic civil rights that those of us
with disabilities rely on to live our
daily lives.
I and countless others am devastated
that we lost her so soon, but I am also
deeply grateful to have known her,
deeply thankful that, in one of the
toughest times of my life, when I was
still adjusting to life in a wheelchair
after being wounded in Iraq, she de-
cided to reach out. Through her kind-
ness and her wisdom, her strength and
her grit, she quickly went from strang-
er to mentor to dear friend.
Marca was raised on a farm in up-
state New York before moving to Chi-
cago and earning her nursing degree at
Rush University, but less than a year
after becoming a nurse, a diving acci-
dent left her paralyzed from the chest
down.
She lost her home because she could
no longer access it. She lost her job be-
cause there were no labor protections
for those with disabilities. She lost her
health insurance because her injuries
and care were too expensive. But she
didn’t lose her resolve, and our country
is far, far better because of that and be-
cause she believed that, even if you get
knocked down, it doesn’t mean you are
knocked out.
Marca’s entire life changed the day of
her accident. Suddenly, she looked
around and saw a world hostile to her,
hostile to all who couldn’t walk or see,
couldn’t speak or hear.
So she set about changing the world.
She saw a country that pushed people
with disabilities into the margins, a
nation that treated them as less than,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.027 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5703
September 25, 2019
one that overlooked or ignored their
needs, making it impossible for many
to work or even to get to work, impos-
sible to go to school or to lead the nor-
mal lives they deserved.
She saw discrimination, and she re-
fused to call it anything else, refusing
to stop fighting until disability issues
weren’t just relegated to the doctor’s
office, weren’t just treated as medical
matters, but were recognized as civil
rights.
So she spoke out. She chained herself
to public buses to demand wheelchair
lifts. She fought for fair housing and
founded Access Living, which she built
into one of the leading disability rights
groups in the country. She wheeled
herself to the front of the Capitol
Building, got down out of her chair
and, one stair at a time, crawled up its
83 steps, demanding that Congress give
Americans with disabilities the basic
rights the Constitution promised. She
set up camp outside GOP offices to
tight against cuts to Medicaid, letting
herself get arrested because that is
what it took.
In the process, she reframed how this
country thought about our rights. As
she famously said, ‘‘My wheelchair
wasn’t too wide for the doors. The
doors were too narrow for my wheel-
chair.’’ Through all her work over all
these decades, she didn’t just widen the
doors. She opened ones that had pre-
viously been closed to all of us who
happen to be in a chair.
No one used to think about how we
couldn’t get from sidewalk to street
when there wasn’t a curb cut. No one
used to question the fact that we
couldn’t climb onto the bus or get
down to the subway.
Marca changed all that. She refused
to accept a status quo that didn’t ac-
cept all of us. She saw us, she fought
for us, and she made our voices heard.
Her work, her friendship, her activ-
ism meant so much to me. It is the rea-
son I am here in the Senate today, and
it is the reason I will keep fighting to-
morrow.
My thoughts are with all of Marca’s
loved ones. Thank you for sharing your
mother, your wife, your sister with the
rest of us. We will continue her legacy.
We will keep widening those doors,
unlocking them, crashing through
them if need be, just as Marca would
have wanted. Doing everything we can
to bring about that more fair, more
just, more accessible world that she
worked so hard for, for so long.
Thank you.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JULIUS EISENSTEIN
∑ Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I would like to recognize the 100th
birthday of Julius Eisenstein who was
born on October 13, 1919, in Tomaszow
Mazowiecki, Poland. I am honored to
have the opportunity to speak about
Julius’s remarkable life today.
Living in Poland during the Holo-
caust, Julius was abruptly taken from
his home and forced into the Tomaszaw
Mazowiecki Ghetto from 1940 to 1943.
From the ghettos, he was then trans-
ported all over Eastern Europe. Be-
tween May 1943 and April 1945, he was
interned in the Blizyn Labor Camp and
four other concentration camps. In
April, Julius was finally liberated from
Dachau by the U.S. Army. Julius and
his brother Jacob survived the Holo-
caust.
After he was liberated, Julius lived in
Munich for some time. He married his
wife Phyllis in 1947. Julius moved to
New York in 1950, where he owned and
operated numerous businesses. Julius
now permanently resides in Florida.
Julius and his wife have two children,
Tobi and Fred. Julius’s wife Phyllis
passed away in 2017.
Julius has been an active speaker for
the Holocaust Documentation and Edu-
cation Center, Inc., where he has
touched the lives of so many. Sharing
Julius’s story is so important as we
seek to educate our children and future
generations about the atrocities of the
past and stand together against all
forms of hate, evil and violence.
The Holocaust is a stark reminder
that evil and hate exist in this world.
Even today, we must remain ready to
confront this hatred and bigotry in all
forms. Every generation must heed the
call to take action in the face of evil;
this is the Holocaust’s enduring lesson
of mankind.
Julius has lived through unspeakable
horror and has dedicated his life to
educating and inspiring those around
him. Our memory of all those who suf-
fered must never weaken, and we must
always fight against hate. I am hon-
ored to wish Julius a happy birthday,
and I wish him continued happiness
with his family, friends, community,
and loved ones.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:20 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1632. An act to require a strategy for
engagement with Southeast Asia and the As-
sociation of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN).
H.R. 2229. An act to waive the passport fees
for first responders proceeding abroad to aid
a foreign country suffering from a natural
disaster.
H.R. 2327. An act to direct the Secretary of
State of provide assistance to civil society
organizations in Burma that work to secure
the release of prisoners of conscience and po-
litical prisoners in Burma, and assistance to
current and former prisoners of conscience
and political prisoners in Burma, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 3190. An act to authorize the humani-
tarian assistance and impose sanctions with
respect to human rights abuses in Burma,
and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES DISCHARGED
The following joint resolution was
discharged from the Committee on
Armed Services by unanimous consent:
S.J. Res. 54. Joint resolution relating to a
national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
We, the undersigned Senators in accord-
ance with Chapter 8 of title 5, United States
Code, hereby direct that the Senate Com-
mittee on Finance be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S.J. Res. 52, a joint res-
olution providing for congressional dis-
approval under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, of the rule submitted by the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary
of Health and Human Services relating to
‘‘State Relief and Empowerment Waivers,’’
and further, that the resolution be placed
upon the Legislative Calendar under General
Orders.
Sincerely,
Mark R. Warner, Joe Manchin, Debbie
Stabenow, Richard J. Durbin, Angus
King, Dianne Feinstein, Charles Schu-
mer, Tammy Baldwin, Patty Murray,
Mazie K. Hirono, Kirsten E. Gillibrand,
Martin Heinrich, Jon Tester, Brian
Schatz, Maggie Hassan, Catherine Cor-
tez Masto, Chris Coons, Ben Cardin,
Tina Smith, Tom Carper, Jack Reed,
Tim Kaine, Maria Cantwell, Gary C.
Peters, Ed Markey, Amy Klobuchar,
Robert Menendez, Tammy Duckworth,
Michael F. Bennet, Jacky Rosen,
Jeanne Shaheen, Sherrod Brown, Chris
Murphy, Richard Blumenthal, Patrick
Leahy, Ron Wyden, Kyrsten Sinema.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1632. An act to require a strategy for
engagement with Southeast Asia and the As-
sociation of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN); to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
H.R. 2229. An act to waive the passport fees
for first responders proceeding abroad to aid
a foreign country suffering from a natural
disaster; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
H.R. 2327. An act to direct the Secretary of
State to provide assistance to civil society
organizations in Burma that work to secure
the release of prisoners of conscience and po-
litical prisoners in Burma, and assistance to
current and former prisoners of conscience
and political prisoners in Burma, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
H.R. 3190. An act to authorize humani-
tarian assistance and impose sanctions with
respect to human rights abuses in Burma,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2636. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘2-Phenoxyethanol; Exemption from
the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL No.
9996–66) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2637. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Cyclaniliprole; Pesticide Tolerance’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.029 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5704 September 25, 2019
(FRL No. 9998–87) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2638. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Florpyrauxifen-benzyl; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 9998–67) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2639. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), a-(3-(1,3,3,3-
tetramethyl-1-((trimethylsilyl) oxy)
disiloxanyl) propyl)- w-hydroxy; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 9999–72) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2640. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Nicotinamide; Exemption from the
Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL No. 9994–
70) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2641. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Clinton F. Faison III, United States Navy,
and his advancement to the grade of vice ad-
miral on the retired list; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–2642. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Philip G. Howe III, United States Navy, and
his advancement to the grade of vice admiral
on the retired list; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–2643. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Rear Admiral
William F. Moran, United States Navy, and
his advancement to the grade of admiral on
the retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2644. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the mobilizations of selected
reserve units, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2645. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the mobilizations of selected
reserve units, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 19,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2646. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Transition Assistance Pro-
gram (TAP) for Military Personnel’’
(RIN0790–AK80) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 18,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2647. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Restrictions of Use of Low-
est Price Technically Acceptable Source Se-
lection Process’’ ((RIN0750–AJ74) (DFARS
Case 2019–D010)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 18,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2648. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Lieutenant Gen-
eral Steven M. Shepro, United States Air
Force, and his advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2649. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to Iran
as declared in Executive Order 12957 of March
15, 1995; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2650. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval and Air Quality
Designation; New Hampshire; Redesignation
of the Central New Hampshire Sulfur Dioxide
Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No. 9999–84–Re-
gion 1) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2651. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Georgia; 2008 8-
hour Ozone Interstate Transport’’ (FRL No.
10000–25–Region 4) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2652. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Illinois; State
Board and Infrastructure SIP Requirements’’
(FRL No. 9999–78–Region 5) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 20, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2653. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Attain-
ment Plan for the Morgan County Sulfur Di-
oxide Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No. 9999–
77–Region 5) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2654. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky; Exist-
ing Indirect Heat Exchangers for Jefferson
County’’ (FRL No. 10000–49–Region 4) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2655. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky; Jeffer-
son County Existing and New VOC Storage
Vessels Rule Changes (FRL No. 10000–47–Re-
gion 4) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2656. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Missouri; Infra-
structure State Implementation Plan Re-
quirements for the 2015 Ozone National Am-
bient Air Quality Standard’’ (FRL No. 10000–
15–Region 7) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2657. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Missouri; Re-
moval of Control of VOC Emissions from
Traffic Coatings’’ (FRL No. 9999–74–Region 7)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2658. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Missouri; Rescis-
sion of Information on Sales of Fuels to be
Provided and Maintained and Certain Coals
to be Washed’’ (FRL No. 9999–73–Region 7) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2659. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; North Carolina;
Amendments of Air Quality Rules’’ (FRL No.
10000–26–Region 4) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2660. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Second
Maintenance Plan for 1997 Ozone NAAQS;
Dayton-Springfield’’ (FRL No. 10000–38–Re-
gion 5) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2661. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Texas; Control of
Air Pollution from Motor Vehicles’’ (FRL
No. 9999–03–Region 6) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2662. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Texas; Infrastruc-
ture for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard’’ (FRL No. 9999–17–Region
6) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2663. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin; Title
V Operation Permit Program; Withdrawal of
Direct Final Rule’’ (FRL No. 10000–39–Region
5) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on September 20, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2664. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Maryland;
Removal of Stage II Gasoline Vapor Recov-
ery Program Requirements’’ (FRL No. 9999–
75–Region 3) received in the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.020 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5705
September 25, 2019
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2665. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Attainment Plan for the Beaver,
Pennsylvania Nonattainment Area for the
2010 Sulfur Dioxide Primary National Ambi-
ent Air Quality Standard’’ (FRL No. 10000–
28–Region 3) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2666. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Redesignation Requests and Mainte-
nance Plans for Delaware County and Leb-
anon County 2012 Fine Particulate Matter
Areas’’ (FRL No. 10000–27–Region 3) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 20, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–2667. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Air Quality Improvement
Plan, Operating Permits Program, and 112(1)
Plan; Missouri Operating Permits’’ (FRL No.
10000–14–Region 7) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2668. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Data Determination; Salt Lake
City, Utah 2006 Fine Particulate Matter
Standards Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No.
9999–66–Region 8) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 20,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2669. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Definition of ’Waters of the United
States’ Recodification of Pre-Existing
Rules’’ (RIN2040–AF74) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
20, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2670. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Ohio; Final Authorization of State
Hazardous Waste Management Program Re-
visions’’ (FRL No. 10000–08–Region 5) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2671. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0075 - 2019–0077); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2672. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to the Republic of Korea to support
the assembly, inspection, test and produc-
tion of T700/701K engine for end use on the
Korean Helicopter Program in the amount of
$50,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC
18–074); to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–2673. A communication from the In-
spector General of the Railroad Retirement
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the In-
spector General’s Congressional Budget Jus-
tification for fiscal year 2021; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–2674. A communication from the Board
Members, Railroad Retirement Board, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the Board’s budget request for fiscal year
2021; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2675. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of
Assets in Single-Employer Plans; Benefits
Payable in Terminated Single-Employer
Plans; Interest Assumptions for Valuing and
Paying Benefits’’ (29 CFR Parts 4022 and 4044)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–2676. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, transmitting pro-
posed legislation relative to major medical
facility construction projects and major
medical facility leases for fiscal year 2020; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with
amendments:
S. 1245. A bill to improve energy perform-
ance in Federal buildings, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–117).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 1685. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program for the re-
search, development, and demonstration of
commercially viable technologies for the
capture of carbon dioxide produced during
the generation of natural gas-generated
power (Rept. No. 116–118).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with
amendments:
S. 1857. A bill to amend the National En-
ergy Conservation Policy Act to improve
Federal energy and water performance re-
quirements for Federal buildings and estab-
lish a Federal Energy Management Program
(Rept. No. 116–119).
By Mr. GRASSLEY, from the Committee
on Finance, without amendment:
S. 2543. An original bill to amend titles XI,
XVIII, and XIX of the Social Security Act to
lower prescription drug prices in the Medi-
care and Medicaid programs, to improve
transparency related to pharmaceutical
prices and transactions, to lower patients’
out-of-pocket costs, and to ensure account-
ability to taxpayers, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–120).
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised
Allocation to Subcommittees of Budget To-
tals for Fiscal Year 2020’’ (Rept. No. 116–121).
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works, without
amendment:
S. 2099. A bill to redesignate the Sullys Hill
National Game Preserve in the State of
North Dakota as the White Horse Hill Na-
tional Game Preserve.
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 2260. A bill to provide for the improve-
ment of domestic infrastructure in order to
prevent marine debris, and for other pur-
poses.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. RISCH for the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to Romania.
Nominee: Adrian Zuckerman.
Post: Ambassador to Romania.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, donee:
1. Self: $500, 3/31/2016, Gregory Meeks; $150,
1/16/2018/, Donald J. Trump For President,
Inc; $1,000, 1/16/2018, Donald J. Trump For
President Inc.
2. Spouse: Divorced, 2004.
3. Children and Spouses: Natalie A.
Zuckerman, daughter: none.
4. Parents: Emil C. Zuckerman, Aura B.
Zuckerman, Deceased, None.
5. Grandparents: Deceased, None.
6. Brothers and Spouses: None.
7. Sisters and Spouses: None.
Adam Seth Boehler, of Louisiana, to be
Chief Executive Officer of the United States
International Development Finance Corpora-
tion.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, for the
Committee on Foreign Relations I re-
port favorably the following nomina-
tion list which was printed in the
RECORD on the date indicated, and ask
unanimous consent, to save the ex-
pense of reprinting on the Executive
Calendar that this nomination lie at
the Secretary’s desk for the informa-
tion of Senators.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Foreign Service nominations beginning
with Melissa McInnis and ending with
Marixell Garcia, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on May 21, 2019.
By Mr. BARRASSO for the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
* Katherine Andrea Lemos, of California, to
be a Member of the Chemical Safety and
Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five
years.
* Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Direc-
tor of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service.
* Katherine Andrea Lemos, of California, to
be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and
Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five
years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.022 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5706 September 25, 2019
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. GRASSLEY:
S. 2543. An original bill to amend titles XI,
XVIII, and XIX of the Social Security Act to
lower prescription drug prices in the Medi-
care and Medicaid programs, to improve
transparency related to pharmaceutical
prices and transactions, to lower patients’
out-of-pocket costs, and to ensure account-
ability to taxpayers, and for other purposes;
from the Committee on Finance; placed on
the calendar.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. TILLIS,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. GRAHAM, and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 2544. A bill to provide tax relief for the
victims of Hurricane Florence, Hurricane
Michael, and certain California wildfires; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. MARKEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
SANDERS, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2545. A bill to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to establish a pro-
gram to make grants to States to inform
Medicaid enrollees and SNAP participants of
potential eligibility for the Lifeline program
of the Commission; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. HASSAN,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
CRAMER, and Mr. KING):
S. 2546. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to re-
quire a group health plan or health insur-
ance coverage offered in connection with
such a plan to provide an exceptions process
for any medication step therapy protocol,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. ROMNEY (for himself, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. YOUNG, and Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO):
S. 2547. A bill to state the policy of the
United States with respect to the expansion
of cooperation with allies and partners in the
Indo-Pacific region and Europe regarding the
People’s Republic of China; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. UDALL,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. MURPHY, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. KAINE, Ms. ROSEN,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. MURRAY,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. REED,
Mr. WARNER, Mr. BOOKER, and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 2548. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to ad-
dress and take action to prevent bullying
and harassment of students; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 2549. A bill to allow nonprofit child care
providers to participate in the loan programs
of the Small Business Administration; to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. Res. 330. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to require cer-
tain measures to address Federal election in-
terference by foreign governments; consid-
ered and agreed to.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. Res. 331. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
inclusion of the provisions of S. 2118 (116th
Congress) (relating to the prohibition of
United States persons from dealing in cer-
tain information and communications tech-
nology or services from foreign adversaries
and requiring the approval of Congress to
terminate certain export controls in effect
with respect to Huawei Technologies Co.
Ltd.); considered and agreed to.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. TESTER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. RISCH, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. COONS, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
BENNET, and Mr. ALEXANDER):
S. Res. 332. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
conference on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress)
to insist upon the provisions contained in
section 630A of the House amendment (relat-
ing to the repeal of a requirement of reduc-
tion of Survivor Benefit Plan survivor annu-
ities by amounts of dependency and indem-
nity compensation); considered and agreed
to.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BEN-
NET, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS,
Ms. HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WAR-
REN, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. Res. 333. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
provisions contained in subtitle B of title XI
of the House amendment (relating to paid
family leave for Federal personnel); consid-
ered and not agreed to.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. Res. 334. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
provisions contained in section 316 of the
Senate bill (relating to a prohibition on the
use of perfluoroalkyl substances and
polyfluoroalkyl substances for land-based
applications of firefighting foam); considered
and agreed to.
By Ms. MCSALLY:
S. Res. 335. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
members of the conference to include the
provisions contained in section 2906 of the
Senate bill (relating to replenishment of cer-
tain military construction funds); considered
and agreed to.
By Ms. ERNST:
S. Res. 336. A resolution instructing the
managers on the part of the Senate on the
bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon the
members of the conference to consider po-
tential commonsense solutions regarding
family and medical leave, including vol-
untary compensatory time programs and in-
centives through the tax code; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
SHELBY, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr. MUR-
PHY):
S. Res. 337. A resolution expressing con-
cern about the fires in the Amazon
rainforest; to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
COONS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. KING, Mr.
ROBERTS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. Res. 338. A resolution designating the
week of September 23 through September 27,
2019, as ‘‘Malnutrition Awareness Week’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. JONES, and Ms. COLLINS):
S. Res. 339. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Retirement Se-
curity Week, including raising public aware-
ness of the various tax-preferred retirement
vehicles, increasing personal financial lit-
eracy, and engaging the people of the United
States on the keys to success in achieving
and maintaining retirement security
throughout their lifetimes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. Res. 340. A resolution designating the
week of September 23 through September 27,
2019, as ‘‘Community School Coordinators
Appreciation Week’’; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. Res. 341. A resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Ovarian Cancer
Awareness Month’’; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. Res. 342. A resolution expressing the
need for immediate climate action in re-
sponse to the report of the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
entitled ‘‘Special Report on the Ocean and
Cryosphere in a Changing Climate’’; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES) and the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal, col-
lectively, to the United States mer-
chant mariners of World War II, in rec-
ognition of their dedicated and vital
service during World War II.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
211, a bill to amend the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent re-
sources vital to Indian victims of
crime, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.019 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5707
September 25, 2019
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) were added as cosponsors
of S. 261, a bill to extend the authoriza-
tion of appropriations for allocation to
carry out approved wetlands conserva-
tion projects under the North Amer-
ican Wetlands Conservation Act
through fiscal year 2024, and for other
purposes.
S. 366
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 366, a bill to shorten monopoly pe-
riods for prescription drugs that are
the subjects of sudden price hikes.
S. 474
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 474, a bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to require drug
manufacturers to publicly justify un-
necessary price increases.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 560, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act, the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to require that group and
individual health insurance coverage
and group health plans provide cov-
erage for treatment of a congenital
anomaly or birth defect.
S. 595
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 595, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coordination of programs to prevent
and treat obesity, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Vir-
ginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) and the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 638, a bill to
require the Administrator of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to des-
ignate per- and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances as hazardous substances under
the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, Liability Act of
1980, and for other purposes.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 655, a bill to impose additional re-
strictions on tobacco flavors for use in
e-cigarettes.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. DAINES) were added
as cosponsors of S. 668, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to waive coinsurance under Medicare
for colorectal cancer screening tests,
regardless of whether therapeutic
intervention is required during the
screening.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 743, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the sol-
diers of the 5307th Composite Unit
(Provisional), commonly known as
‘‘Merrill’s Marauders’’ , in recognition
of their bravery and outstanding serv-
ice in the jungles of Burma during
World War II.
S. 1048
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1048, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for a Reducing Youth Use of E–Ciga-
rettes Initiative.
S. 1142
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1142, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits
for energy storage technologies, and
for other purposes.
S. 1191
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1191, a bill to reauthorize section
340H of the Public Health Service Act
to continue to encourage the expan-
sion, maintenance, and establishment
of approved graduate medical residency
programs at qualified teaching health
centers, and for other purposes.
S. 1209
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1209, a bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with re-
spect to approval of abbreviated new
drug applications.
S. 1210
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1210, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase and
make permanent the exclusion for ben-
efits provided to volunteer firefighters
and emergency medical responders.
S. 1413
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1413, a bill to require the
Secretary of Defense to establish an
initiative on improving the capacity of
military criminal investigative organi-
zations to prevent child sexual exploi-
tation, and for other purposes.
S. 1416
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1416, a bill to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to prohibit
anticompetitive behaviors by drug
product manufacturers, and for other
purposes.
S. 1564
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1564, a bill to require the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission and cer-
tain Federal agencies to carry out a
study relating to accounting standards,
and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) and the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to amend
the State Department Basic Authori-
ties Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1602
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED), the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) and
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1602, a bill to amend the United
States Energy Storage Competitive-
ness Act of 2007 to establish a research,
development, and demonstration pro-
gram for grid-scale energy storage sys-
tems, and for other purposes.
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1602, supra.
S. 1678
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1678, a bill to express United States
support for Taiwan’s diplomatic alli-
ances around the world.
S. 1723
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1723, a bill to amend the Omnibus
Parks and Public Lands Management
Act of 1996 to provide for the establish-
ment of a Ski Area Fee Retention Ac-
count.
S. 1750
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1750, a bill to establish the Clean
School Bus Grant Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1782
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from New York
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.033 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5708 September 25, 2019
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1782, a bill to add suicide
prevention resources to school identi-
fication cards.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1822, a bill to require the
Federal Communications Commission
to issue rules relating to the collection
of data with respect to the availability
of broadband services, and for other
purposes.
S. 1880
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1880, a bill to support
the provision of treatment family care
services, and for other purposes.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2026, a bill to amend the Rich-
ard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act to reauthorize the farm to school
program, and for other purposes.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2103, a bill to improve
access to affordable insulin.
S. 2372
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2372, a bill to enhance
global engagement to combat marine
debris, and for other purposes.
S. 2384
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2384, a bill to promote bo-
tanical research and botanical sciences
capacity, and for other purposes.
S. 2439
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2439, a bill to amend the Trademark
Act of 1946 to provide that the licens-
ing of a mark for use by a related com-
pany may not be construed as estab-
lishing an employment relationship be-
tween the owner of the mark, or an au-
thorizing person, and either that re-
lated company or the employees of
that related company, and for other
purposes.
S. 2461
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2461, a bill to designate a portion of
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as
wilderness.
S. RES. 73
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 73, a resolution call-
ing on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
immediately release Saudi Women’s
Rights activists and respect the funda-
mental rights of all Saudi citizens.
S. RES. 236
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 236, a resolution reaffirming
the strong partnership between Tunisia
and the United States and supporting
the people of Tunisia in their contin-
ued pursuit of democratic reforms.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 252, a resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as National Democracy
Month as a time to reflect on the con-
tributions of the system of government
of the United States to a more free and
stable world.
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Ala-
bama (Mr. JONES) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 252, supra.
S. RES. 277
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 277, a resolution remem-
bering the 25th Anniversary of the
bombing of the Argentine Israelite Mu-
tual Association (AMIA) Jewish Com-
munity Center in Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina, and recommitting to efforts to
uphold justice for the 85 victims of the
attacks.
S. RES. 313
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. TOOMEY) and the Senator
from Florida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 313, a resolution
designating the week of September 22
through September 28, 2019, as ‘‘Gold
Star Families Remembrance Week’’ .
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 318, a resolu-
tion to support the Global Fund to
fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria,
and the Sixth Replenishment.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 330—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO REQUIRE CERTAIN
MEASURES TO ADDRESS FED-
ERAL ELECTION INTERFERENCE
BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, and Ms. HARRIS)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 330
Resolved, that the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) are instructed to require the ap-
propriate official of the executive branch,
after each Federal election, to promptly sub-
mit to Congress a determination as to
whether the Government of the Russian Fed-
eration, or any other foreign government,
has interfered in such election and a detailed
assessment of any such interference that
identifies, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, the individuals responsible for the
interference, and to promptly impose sanc-
tions on any foreign government that has
been determined to have interfered in a Fed-
eral election, including specified individuals
and entities within the territory of that gov-
ernment.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 331—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO INSIST UPON THE IN-
CLUSION OF THE PROVISIONS OF
S. 2118 (116TH CONGRESS) (RELAT-
ING TO THE PROHIBITION OF
UNITED STATES PERSONS FROM
DEALING IN CERTAIN INFORMA-
TION AND COMMUNICATIONS
TECHNOLOGY OR SERVICES
FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARIES
AND REQUIRING THE APPROVAL
OF CONGRESS TO TERMINATE
CERTAIN EXPORT CONTROLS IN
EFFECT WITH RESPECT TO
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO.
LTD.)
Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. ROM-
NEY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to.
S. RES. 331
Resolved, that the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) are instructed to insist upon the
inclusion of the provisions of S. 2118 (116th
Congress) (relating to the prohibition of
United States persons from dealing in cer-
tain information and communications tech-
nology or services from foreign adversaries
and requiring the approval of Congress to
terminate certain export controls in effect
with respect to Huawei Technologies Co.
Ltd.).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.035 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5709
September 25, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 332—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE CONFERENCE ON THE BILL
S. 1790 (116TH CONGRESS) TO IN-
SIST UPON THE PROVISIONS
CONTAINED IN SECTION 630A OF
THE HOUSE AMENDMENT (RE-
LATING TO THE REPEAL OF A
REQUIREMENT OF REDUCTION
OF SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN
SURVIVOR ANNUITIES BY
AMOUNTS OF DEPENDENCY AND
INDEMNITY COMPENSATION)
Mr. JONES (for himself, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. RISCH, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. COONS, Mr. MORAN, Mr. BENNET,
and Mr. ALEXANDER) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 332
Resolved, that the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) are instructed to insist upon the
provisions contained in section 630A of the
House amendment (relating to the repeal of
a requirement of reduction of Survivor Ben-
efit Plan survivor annuities by amounts of
dependency and indemnity compensation).
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 333—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO INSIST UPON THE
PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN SUB-
TITLE B OF TITLE XI OF THE
HOUSE AMENDMENT (RELATING
TO PAID FAMILY LEAVE FOR
FEDERAL PERSONNEL)
Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 333
Resolved, that the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) are instructed to insist upon the
provisions contained in subtitle B of title XI
of the House amendment (relating to paid
family leave for Federal personnel).
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 334—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO INSIST UPON THE
PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN SEC-
TION 316 OF THE SENATE BILL
(RELATING TO A PROHIBITION
ON THE USE OF PERFLUORO
ALKYL SUBSTANCES AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUB-
STANCES FOR LAND-BASED AP-
PLICATIONS OF FIREFIGHTING
FOAM)
Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
BENNET) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 334
Resolved, That the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) are instructed to insist upon the
provisions of section 316 of the Senate bill
(relating to a prohibition on the use of
perfluoroalkyl substances and polyfluoro
alkyl substances for land-based applications
of firefighting foam).
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 335—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO INSIST UPON THE
MEMBERS OF THE CONFERENCE
TO INCLUDE THE PROVISIONS
CONTAINED IN SECTION 2906 OF
THE SENATE BILL (RELATING TO
REPLENISHMENT OF CERTAIN
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
FUNDS)
Ms. MCSALLY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 335
Resolved, That the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 be in-
structed to insist upon the provisions con-
tained in section 2906 of the Senate bill (re-
lating to replenishment of certain military
construction funds).
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 336—IN-
STRUCTING THE MANAGERS ON
THE PART OF THE SENATE ON
THE BILL S. 1790 (116TH CON-
GRESS) TO INSIST UPON THE
MEMBERS OF THE CONFERENCE
TO CONSIDER POTENTIAL COM-
MONSENSE SOLUTIONS REGARD-
ING FAMILY AND MEDICAL
LEAVE, INCLUDING VOLUNTARY
COMPENSATORY TIME PRO-
GRAMS AND INCENTIVES
THROUGH THE TAX CODE
Ms. ERNST submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 336
Resolved, That the managers on the part of
the Senate at the conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
House amendment to the bill S. 1790 be in-
structed to insist upon the members of the
conference consider potential commonsense
solutions regarding family and medical
leave, including voluntary compensatory
time programs and incentives through the
tax code.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 337—EX-
PRESSING CONCERN ABOUT THE
FIRES IN THE AMAZON
RAINFOREST
Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
SHELBY, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr. MUR-
PHY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 337
Whereas the Amazon rainforest is the larg-
est rainforest in the world;
Whereas almost 60 percent of the Amazon
rainforest exists within the borders of Brazil;
Whereas the Amazon rainforest accounts
for 25 percent of the carbon that global for-
ests absorb each year and has as much as
140,000,000,000 tons of carbon sequestered in
the ground;
Whereas the ecosystem of the Amazon
rainforest is home to over 2,000 species of
animals, meaning that 1 in 10 known species
of animals is endemic to the region;
Whereas 70 percent of the gross domestic
product of South America is generated in
areas that receive rainfall or water from the
Amazon rainforest, and the trees of the Ama-
zon rainforest influence rainfall patterns as
far away as the United States;
Whereas the National Institute for Space
Research of Brazil (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘INPE’’) reported that, between
January and September of 2019, there were
87,257 fires in Brazil, including 62,034 fires in
the Legal Amazonia, more than double the
number of fires that occurred during the en-
tire 2018 calendar year;
Whereas the INPE reported that the Ama-
zon rainforest shrank 1,330 square miles in
the first 6 months of 2019, a 40 percent in-
crease in deforestation from 2018;
Whereas public records indicate that, from
January 2019 to June 2019, the number of en-
forcement actions taken by the Government
of Brazil aimed at curbing illegal deforest-
ation declined by 20 percent;
Whereas fires and illegal deforestation in
the Amazon rainforest impact the benefits
that the Amazon rainforest has on regional
and global climate stability;
Whereas fires and illegal deforestation in
the Amazon rainforest pose a danger to in-
digenous communities;
Whereas a recent poll conducted by the
Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion and
Statistics found that 96 percent of the people
of Brazil partially or completely agreed with
the statement that ‘‘President [Jair]
Bolsonaro and the Federal government
should increase inspection measures to pre-
vent illegal deforestation in the Amazon’’;
Whereas the United States was the first
country to recognize the independence of
Brazil in 1822 and has long respected and
championed the sovereignty of Brazil;
Whereas the people of the United States
have historic, cultural, and familial ties to
the people of Brazil; and
Whereas the United States and Brazil
share a common interest in the sustainable
management of the natural resources of the
Amazon rainforest: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) expresses bipartisan concern about the
fires and increased illegal deforestation in
the Amazon rainforest;
(2) recognizes that the fires and illegal de-
forestation in the Amazon rainforest affect
the whole world;
(3) supports the proactive delivery of finan-
cial and technical assistance from the United
States to the Government of Brazil and to
Brazilian nongovernmental organizations to
mitigate the fires and curb illegal deforest-
ation;
(4) supports the reinstatement of protec-
tions for indigenous communities stewarding
the Amazon rainforest; and
(5) supports the efforts of the Government
of Brazil to increase sustainable develop-
ment of the Amazon rainforest by strength-
ening environmental enforcement and end-
ing illegal deforestation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.041 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5710 September 25, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 338—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF SEP-
TEMBER 23 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 27, 2019, AS ‘‘MALNUTRI-
TION AWARENESS WEEK’’
Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
COONS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. KING, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. LANKFORD,
and Mr. WYDEN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 338
Whereas malnutrition is the condition that
occurs when a person does not get enough
nutrients;
Whereas malnutrition is a significant prob-
lem in the United States and around the
world, crossing all age, racial, class, gender,
and geographic lines;
Whereas, in the United States, infants,
older adults, people with chronic diseases,
and other vulnerable populations are par-
ticularly at risk for malnutrition;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition
costs the United States more than
$15,500,000,000 each year;
Whereas approximately 3⁄4 of individuals in
the United States have eating patterns of
vegetables, fruits, dairy, and oils that are
below the recommended dietary guidelines;
Whereas many vulnerable individuals in
the United States do not get the daily rec-
ommended amount of lean proteins;
Whereas approximately 6,000,000 children
in the United States live in food insecure
homes;
Whereas the American Academy of Pediat-
rics has found that failure to provide key nu-
trients during early childhood may result in
lifelong deficits in brain function;
Whereas disease-associated malnutrition
affects between 30 and 50 percent of patients
admitted to hospitals;
Whereas the medical costs of hospitalized
patients with malnutrition can be 300 per-
cent more than the medical costs of properly
nourished patients;
Whereas more than 1⁄2 of older adults living
in the community are at risk for malnutri-
tion; and
Whereas the American Society for Paren-
teral and Enteral Nutrition created Mal-
nutrition Awareness Week to raise aware-
ness and promote prevention of malnutri-
tion: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of September 23
through September 27, 2019, as ‘‘Malnutrition
Awareness Week’’;
(2) recognizes registered dietitian nutri-
tionists and other nutrition professionals,
health care providers, social workers, advo-
cates, caregivers, and other professionals and
agencies for their efforts to advance aware-
ness and prevention of malnutrition;
(3) recognizes the importance of existing
Federal nutrition programs for their role in
combatting malnutrition and supports con-
tinuing resources to prevent and treat mal-
nutrition; and
(4) recognizes the need to reauthorize the
special supplemental nutrition program for
women, infants, and children established by
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
(42 U.S.C. 1786) and the child nutrition pro-
grams of the Department of Agriculture to
provide critical nutrition assistance to vul-
nerable populations.
SENATE RESOLUTION 339—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL RETIRE-
MENT SECURITY WEEK, INCLUD-
ING RAISING PUBLIC AWARE-
NESS OF THE VARIOUS TAX-PRE-
FERRED RETIREMENT VEHICLES,
INCREASING PERSONAL FINAN-
CIAL LITERACY, AND ENGAGING
THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED
STATES ON THE KEYS TO SUC-
CESS IN ACHIEVING AND MAIN-
TAINING RETIREMENT SECURITY
THROUGHOUT THEIR LIFETIMES
Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. JONES, and Ms. COLLINS)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES 339
Whereas people in the United States are
living longer and the cost of retirement is in-
creasing significantly;
Whereas Social Security remains the bed-
rock of retirement income for the great ma-
jority of the people of the United States but
was never intended by Congress to be the
sole source of retirement income for fami-
lies;
Whereas recent data from the Employee
Benefit Research Institute indicates that, in
the United States—
(1) 40.6 percent of households in which the
head of household is between the ages of 35
and 64 are likely to run out of money in re-
tirement; and
(2) the amount that workers have saved for
retirement is much less than the amount
those workers need to adequately fund their
retirement years;
Whereas the financial literacy of workers
in the United States is important so that
those workers understand the need to save
for retirement;
Whereas saving for retirement is a key
component of overall financial health and se-
curity during retirement years and the im-
portance of financial literacy in planning for
retirement must be advocated;
Whereas many workers may not—
(1) be aware of the various options in sav-
ing for retirement; or
(2) have focused on the importance of, and
need for, saving for retirement and success-
fully achieving retirement security;
Whereas, although many employees have
access through their employers to defined
benefit and defined contribution plans to as-
sist the employees in preparing for retire-
ment, many of those employees may not be
taking advantage of those plans at all or to
the full extent allowed by Federal law;
Whereas saving for retirement is necessary
even during economic downturns or market
declines, which makes continued contribu-
tions all the more important;
Whereas all workers, including public and
private sector employees, employees of tax-
exempt organizations, and self-employed in-
dividuals, can benefit from developing per-
sonal budgets and financial plans that in-
clude retirement savings strategies that
take advantage of tax-preferred retirement
savings vehicles;
Whereas effectively and sustainably with-
drawing retirement resources throughout
the retirement years of an individual is as
important and crucial as saving and accumu-
lating funds for retirement; and
Whereas the week of October 20 through
October 26, 2019, has been designated as ‘‘Na-
tional Retirement Security Week’’: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Retirement Security Week, including
raising public awareness of the importance
of saving adequately for retirement;
(2) acknowledges the need to raise public
awareness of a variety of tax-preferred re-
tirement vehicles that are used by many peo-
ple in the United States but could be used by
more; and
(3) calls on States, localities, schools, uni-
versities, nonprofit organizations, busi-
nesses, other entities, and the people of the
United States to observe National Retire-
ment Security Week with appropriate pro-
grams and activities, with the goal of in-
creasing the retirement savings and personal
financial literacy of all people in the United
States, thereby enhancing the retirement se-
curity of the people of the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 340—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF SEP-
TEMBER 23 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 27, 2019, AS ‘‘COMMU-
NITY SCHOOL COORDINATORS
APPRECIATION WEEK’’
Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 340
Whereas community schools marshal,
align, and unite the assets, resources, and
capacity of schools and communities for the
success of students, families, and commu-
nities;
Whereas community schools are an effec-
tive, evidence-based, and equity-driven strat-
egy for school improvement included under
section 4625 of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7275),
as added by section 4601 of the Every Student
Succeeds Act (Public Law 114–95; 129 Stat.
2029);
Whereas community schools that provide
well-designed, expanded learning opportuni-
ties have positive academic and nonacademic
outcomes, including improvements in stu-
dent attendance, behavior, and academic
achievement;
Whereas community schools have the po-
tential for closing racial and economic
achievement gaps, as indicated in a 2017 re-
port;
Whereas community schools provide a
strong social return on investment, with one
study citing a social return of between $10 to
$15 for every dollar invested over a 3-year pe-
riod;
Whereas community school coordinators
are essential to building successful commu-
nity schools and creating, strengthening,
and maintaining the bridges between com-
munity schools and their communities;
Whereas community school coordinators
facilitate and provide leadership for the col-
laborative process and development of a con-
tinuum of supports and opportunities for
children, families, and others within a
school’s community that allow all students
to learn and the community to thrive;
Whereas community school coordinators,
through their role, deliver a strong mone-
tary return on investment for community
schools and their communities, with one
study citing a return of $7.11 for every dollar
invested in the salary of a community school
coordinator; and
Whereas Community School Coordinators
Appreciation Week, celebrated from Sep-
tember 23 through September 27, 2019, recog-
nizes, raises awareness of, and celebrates the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.044 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5711
September 25, 2019
thousands of community school coordinators
across the country and the critical role of
community school coordinators in the suc-
cess of students: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of September 23
through September 27, 2019, as ‘‘Community
School Coordinators Appreciation Week’’;
(2) thanks community school coordinators
for the work they do to serve students, fami-
lies, and communities; and
(3) encourages students, parents, school ad-
ministrators, and public officials to partici-
pate in events that celebrate Community
School Coordinators Appreciation Week.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 341—DESIG-
NATING SEPTEMBER 2019 AS
‘‘NATIONAL OVARIAN CANCER
AWARENESS MONTH’’
Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BROWN,
and Mr. MENENDEZ) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 341
Whereas ovarian cancer is the deadliest of
all gynecologic cancers;
Whereas ovarian cancer is the fifth leading
cause of cancer deaths among women in the
United States;
Whereas, in 2019 in the United States, ap-
proximately 22,530 new cases of ovarian can-
cer will be diagnosed and 13,980 women will
die of ovarian cancer;
Whereas more than 1⁄2 of the women diag-
nosed with ovarian cancer will die within 5
years of that diagnosis;
Whereas, while the mammogram can de-
tect breast cancer and the Pap smear can de-
tect cervical cancer, there is no reliable
early detection test for ovarian cancer;
Whereas the lack of an early detection test
means that approximately 80 percent of
cases of ovarian cancer are detected at an
advanced stage;
Whereas all women are at risk for ovarian
cancer, but approximately 20 percent of
women who are diagnosed with ovarian can-
cer have a hereditary predisposition to ovar-
ian cancer, which places them at even higher
risk;
Whereas scientists and physicians have un-
covered changes in the BRCA genes that
some women inherit from their parents,
which may make those women as much as 35
times more likely to develop ovarian cancer;
Whereas the family history of a woman has
been found to play an important role in ac-
curately assessing the risk of that woman of
developing ovarian cancer, and medical ex-
perts believe that family history should be
taken into consideration during the annual
well-woman visit of any woman;
Whereas many experts in health preven-
tion now recommend genetic testing for
young women with a family history of breast
and ovarian cancer;
Whereas women who know that they are at
high risk of breast and ovarian cancer may
undertake prophylactic measures to help re-
duce the risk of developing those diseases;
Whereas clinical trials are fundamental to
the discovery of new and better therapies in
the fight against ovarian cancer and can
offer some patients their best hope for treat-
ment;
Whereas the Society of Gynecologic Oncol-
ogy recommends that all women who are di-
agnosed with ovarian cancer receive coun-
seling and genetic testing;
Whereas testing somatic tumors can pro-
vide critical information to help effectively
treat patients with ovarian cancer;
Whereas many people are unaware that the
symptoms of ovarian cancer often include
bloating, pelvic or abdominal pain, difficulty
eating or feeling full quickly, urinary symp-
toms, and several other symptoms that are
easily confused with other diseases;
Whereas awareness of the symptoms of
ovarian cancer by women and health care
providers can lead to a quicker diagnosis;
and
Whereas, each year during the month of
September, the Ovarian Cancer Research Al-
liance and community partners hold hun-
dreds of events to increase public awareness
of ovarian cancer: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates September 2019 as ‘‘National
Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month’’; and
(2) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 342—EX-
PRESSING THE NEED FOR IMME-
DIATE CLIMATE ACTION IN RE-
SPONSE TO THE REPORT OF THE
UNITED NATIONS INTERGOVERN-
MENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE
CHANGE ENTITLED ‘‘SPECIAL
REPORT ON THE OCEAN AND
CRYOSPHERE IN A CHANGING
CLIMATE’’
Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation:
S. RES. 342
Whereas every person on the planet bene-
fits from a healthy ocean and a stable
cryosphere;
Whereas the ocean covers more than 70
percent of the surface of the Earth;
Whereas the cryosphere includes the frozen
components of the system of the Earth, in-
cluding snow, glaciers, ice sheets, ice
shelves, icebergs, sea ice, and permafrost;
Whereas glaciers, ice sheets, and perma-
nent snow hold approximately 69 percent of
the freshwater on Earth;
Whereas the ocean generates the oxygen
that humans breathe, regulates the climate
and weather patterns, supplies food, is a
source of cultural value, supports tourism
and trade, and is an untapped renewable en-
ergy resource;
Whereas the ocean contributes an esti-
mated $1,500,000,000,000 in value added to the
global economy, including a United States
fishing industry valued at $212,000,000,000,
which is a critical economic driver in the
United States;
Whereas the ocean and cryosphere support
biodiversity and regulate the global ex-
change of water, energy, and carbon;
Whereas, on September 25, 2019, the United
Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change released a report entitled ‘‘Special
Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a
Changing Climate’’ (in this preamble re-
ferred to as the ‘‘SROCC’’);
Whereas the SROCC is the most com-
prehensive scientific assessment of the ef-
fects of climate change on the ocean and
coasts and on polar and mountain eco-
systems to date;
Whereas more than 100 scientists from 36
countries produced the SROCC, and the
SROCC was reviewed by thousands of sci-
entific experts from around the world;
Whereas, according to the SROCC—
(1) since 1970, the ocean has taken up more
than 90 percent of excess heat in the climate
system, and the ocean has warmed as a di-
rect result of anthropogenic greenhouse gas
emissions;
(2) from 1982 to 2016, marine heatwaves
very likely doubled in frequency, and marine
heatwaves are very likely to become longer-
lasting, more intense, and more extensive;
(3) since 1993, the rate of ocean warming
has more than doubled;
(4) since the 1980s, the ocean has very like-
ly absorbed up to 30 percent of total anthro-
pogenic carbon, causing the ocean to become
more acidic;
(5) the ocean is losing oxygen at an unprec-
edented rate, and oxygen loss will very like-
ly emerge over 59 to 80 percent of the ocean
surface by 2031 through 2050;
(6) since the 1980s, harmful algal blooms
have expanded and increased in frequency in
coastal environments as a result of ocean
warming, acidification, and oxygen loss;
(7) in some regions, fish and shellfish
stocks are already on the brink of collapsing;
(8) environmental stressors, such as ocean
acidification, oxygen loss, and warming
ocean temperatures, are expected to further
compromise the abundance, productivity,
and food-web interactions of species;
(9) the decrease in biodiversity and decline
and shifts in distribution of fisheries will af-
fect the livelihoods and food security of
coastal communities;
(10) warmer ocean temperatures are fueling
extreme weather events;
(11) rare extreme sea level events are ex-
pected to occur frequently by 2050;
(12) in the absence of significant adapta-
tion efforts, extreme events associated with
sea level rise, such as erosion, flooding, and
salinization, are expected to significantly in-
crease;
(13) during the 20th century, nearly 50 per-
cent of coastal wetlands were lost, and 20 to
90 percent of coastal wetlands are projected
to be lost by 2100 as a result of sea level rise
and habitat degradation;
(14) coastal blue carbon ecosystems can
contribute to climate mitigation by storing
carbon;
(15) river runoff in snow-dominated and
glacier-fed basins are projected to change in
response to projected snow cover and glacier
decline;
(16) glacial and snow meltwater reductions
have resulted in reduced water supply, de-
clined agriculture productivity, and in-
creased wildfires in mountain regions and
the Arctic;
(17) tourism and outdoor recreation activi-
ties have been negatively affected by the
cryosphere decline;
(18) Arctic sea ice is declining in all
months of the year and summers free of sea
ice are increasingly likely under 2 degrees
Celsius of global warming;
(19) in the last 2 decades, Arctic surface air
temperatures have likely increased by more
than double the global average, resulting in
more sea ice and snow cover loss; and
(20) widespread thaw and degradation of
permafrost is projected to occur this century
and is anticipated to release tens to hun-
dreds of billions of tons of carbon dioxide and
methane into the atmosphere;
Whereas the United States is already fac-
ing the consequences of inaction on climate
change;
Whereas communities of color, indigenous
communities, and low-income communities
often face the disproportionate effects of in-
action on climate change;
Whereas reducing greenhouse gas emis-
sions, transitioning to a clean energy econ-
omy, and investing in climate adaptation ef-
forts can support good-paying jobs;
Whereas, in 2018, the United Nations Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change re-
leased a special report entitled ‘‘Global
Warming of 1.5°C’’, which found that to limit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.047 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5712 September 25, 2019
global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, net
global greenhouse gas emissions must be re-
duced to 45 percent below 2010 levels by 2030
and 100 percent below 2010 levels, or net zero,
by 2050; and
Whereas, as Congress enacts policies to put
the United States on a path to net-zero emis-
sions, there is an opportunity and need for
the ocean to be part of the climate solution:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes and accepts the findings of
the report of the United Nations Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change entitled
‘‘Special Report on the Ocean and
Cryosphere in a Changing Climate’’;
(2) commits to supporting ocean-centric
solutions to the climate crisis in conjunction
with policies to reduce greenhouse gas emis-
sions; and
(3) affirms that immediate action is needed
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to pro-
tect the health of the ocean and the stability
of the cryosphere.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 942. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 4378, making continuing appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 942. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 4378, making con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, add
the following:
SEC. lll. REDUCTION IN RATE FOR OPER-
ATIONS.
The rate for operations provided by section
101 is hereby reduced by 2 percent.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
have 11 requests for committees to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. They have the approval of the Ma-
jority and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, September 25, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, September 25, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, September 25,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, September 25, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, September 25, 2019, at 9:15
a.m., to conduct a business hearing and
the following nominations: Aurelia
Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Director of
the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, Department of the Interior,
and Katherine Andrea Lemos, of Cali-
fornia, to be a Member of the Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board,
and to be Chairperson of the Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board,
and 8 General Services Administration
resolutions.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25, 2019, at 1:30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, September
25, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25, 2019, at 1:30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing on the following nomina-
tions: Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon,
to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit, William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, Jodi W. Dishman, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma, Sarah E. Pitlyk,
to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Missouri, and
Daniel Mack Traynor, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of North Dakota.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 25, 2019, at 10:15 a.m, to conduct
a briefing.
f
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that following lead-
er remarks on Thursday, September 26,
the Senate proceed to the consider-
ation of H.R. 4378; that the only amend-
ment in order be the Paul amendment
No. 942; that the time until 12:15 p.m.
be equally divided in the usual form;
that at 12:15 p.m., the Senate vote in
relation to the Paul amendment; and
that following disposition of the
amendment, the bill, as amended, if
amended, be read a third time and the
Senate vote on passage of the bill, as
amended, if amended, with 60 affirma-
tive votes required for passage.
Finally, I ask unanimous consent
that following disposition of H.R. 4378,
the Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the Hyten
nomination, with the time until 1:30
p.m. equally divided between the lead-
ers or their designees; that at 1:30 p.m.,
the postcloture time on the Hyten and
Scalia nominations be considered ex-
pired and the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations in the order listed; and that if
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 26, 2019
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Thursday, Sep-
tember 26; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
the consideration of H.R. 4378 under the
previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7:23 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
September 26, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:07 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE6.049 S25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1205
September 25, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF THE FEDERAL
EMPLOYEE SHORT-TERM DIS-
ABILITY INSURANCE ACT OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Federal Employee Short-Term
Disability Insurance Act of 2019, which would
help provide financial relief for federal employ-
ees who have a short-term injury or disability,
become pregnant, or develop a pregnancy-re-
lated illness. This bill would offer federal em-
ployees short-term disability insurance at no
cost to the federal government. Employees
would be responsible for 100 percent of the
premiums and be able to receive disability in-
surance benefits for up to one year, which
would replace a portion of their lost income
due to a non-work-related injury or illness or
pregnancy. These benefits would be particu-
larly advantageous to ensure that our federal
employees, who do not yet enjoy paid mater-
nity leave, are able to utilize the 12 weeks of
unpaid maternity leave permitted by federal
law while continuing to pay their bills, buy gro-
ceries and make their mortgage, car and other
loan payments without depleting their retire-
ment or other savings accounts. Too many
federal employees do not take advantage of
the full amount of federal unpaid maternity
leave they and their newborn need because
they have no way to replace the lost income.
I decided to investigate how we could pro-
vide short-term disability insurance for federal
employees after learning that many of them al-
ready buy short-term disability insurance as in-
dividuals in the private market at high indi-
vidual rates. Although federal employees have
good health insurance, federal health benefits
do not replace lost income if employees are
unable to work. Moreover, while federal em-
ployees may have available sick or annual
leave days, they may not have enough such
days to pay the bills if they have to be out of
work for an extended period, such as following
surgery. Although there are long-term disability
options for federal employees who become
permanently disabled, federal employees do
not qualify for such benefits until they have
worked for the federal government for at least
18 months. My bill does no more than put fed-
eral employees in the same position as many
oftheir private-sector counterparts, who often
have access to disability insurance through an
employer at group rates, an option unavailable
to federal employees. This bill would not allow
participating insurance companies to exclude
persons based on preexisting conditions. Be-
cause of the federal government’s purchasing
power, this bill would provide these benefits at
a more competitive rate than is available for
employees purchasing as individuals, as many
do. Under the bill, the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management would contract with
private carriers to provide this coverage, es-
sentially providing the equivalent of group cov-
erage available to workers in the private sec-
tor.
According to the Social Security Administra-
tion, a 20-year-old worker has a one-in-four
chance of becoming disabled by retirement
age. The majority of disabilities are not caused
by major accidents, but by injury or illnesses,
such as back injuries or cancer, according to
the Council for Disability Awareness. There is
every reason to allow our federal employees
to take advantage of the federal government’s
group rates to obtain the most reasonable
price if they choose to purchase short-term
disability coverage on their own at no cost to
the federal government.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LEGACY OF
MARRINER S. ECCLES
HON. BEN McADAMS
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, Utah na-
tive Marriner S. Eccles is one of the giants in
the history of America’s free enterprise bank-
ing system and the father of the modern Fed-
eral Reserve.
He was born in Logan, Utah in 1890 and as
a child, worked in several of his father’s busi-
nesses. He created a family holding company,
the Eccles Investment Company, in 1916 to
manage various enterprises. By the mid-
1920s, he, his brother George and others had
organized the First Security Corporation, be-
lieved to be the first multibank holding com-
pany. Before entering public service, he suc-
cessfully prevented the collapse of the family
bank in 1931. In 1933, Congress invited him
to give his analysis of the Great Depression.
He delivered a five-point program to fix the
economy that formed the basis of the New
Deal.
When Marriner Eccles was named Chair of
the Federal Reserve in 1934, he was just 44
years old. Time magazine wrote at the time,
‘‘Many believe Marriner S. Eccles is the only
thing standing between the U.S. and disaster.’’
Former U.S. Labor Secretary Robert Reich
has stated that any list of the most influential
individuals on America’s thinking in the post-
war era must include Marriner S. Eccles. His-
torians note that one reason America was able
to win World War II, which took a great deal
of money, is the advice President Franklin D.
Roosevelt received from Marriner Eccles.
Eccles was known as someone who thought
deeply about problems and then acted without
concern for the political consequences. When
Congress passed the Banking Act of 1935,
which sought to clarify the powers and respon-
sibilities of the Reserve Board in matters of
national monetary policy, and to increase the
autonomy of regional Reserve Banks, he said,
‘‘The function of banking and money is per-
haps the most important of all in our entire
economy.’’ He then congratulated the Con-
gress for working ‘‘tirelessly and conscien-
tiously to reconcile different points of view in
accordance with what they believed to be in
the public interest.’’
After his Fed service, Eccles returned to the
banking business in Utah. He died in 1977. In
1982, the Federal Reserve Building in Wash-
ington, D.C. was renamed in his honor. His
descendants continued to carry out his legacy
of public service. The Marriner S. Eccles
Foundation has given generously to higher
education, hospitals and medical research,
arts and culture and family and social serv-
ices, including programs supporting the elder-
ly, the disabled and the homeless. As a com-
munity, as a state and as a country, we con-
tinue to reap the benefits of Marriner Eccles’
intellect, dedication, compassion and commit-
ment to American values and ideals.
f
CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
SPEECH OF
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 24, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
in July, the Trump administration published a
proposed change to the broad-based categor-
ical eligibility for the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program. This change is a bad
idea and would severely hurt working families
and children in my district and across this
country.
North Texas has a major issue of food inse-
curity. More than one in six residents in Dallas
Country are not certain where their next meal
will come from. Over 20 percent of children in
North Texas are food insecure, many of which
rely on free or reduced lunch as well to ensure
they can feed their mind in the classroom rath-
er than worrying about filling their stomachs.
This change would make it even harder on
children and working parents in North Texas
to have access to healthy foods. It would put
them one step closer to total calamity.
Hunger has always been an important issue
to me. Earlier this month, many organizations
came together for the 8th Annual Dallas Hun-
ger Summit to discuss how they can work to-
gether in ensuring that working families across
North Texas have access to healthy foods. Or-
ganizations such as the Texas Hunger Initia-
tive and the North Texas Food Bank have par-
ticipated in this summit for years and have
been valuable resources as we fight each day
to have fewer of our neighbors deal with hun-
ger. With this change, thousands of additional
working families in North Texas would be
forced to rely on the services of these organi-
zations due to this administration’s heartless
policies.
Simply put. These changes to the broad-
based categorical eligibility for SNAP strips
food off the table of hard-working families. It
makes it harder for organizations such as food
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25SE8.001 E25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1206 September 25, 2019
pantries and charities to meet the increased
utilization of their programs. Most offensive of
all, this program, a program designed to help
families get on their feet and move out of pov-
erty and up the economic scale, is being
changed simply so that this administration can
leave more people behind.
Madam Speaker, I urge the Trump Adminis-
tration to carefully reevaluate their policies to-
wards working families and immediately re-
scind this terrible policy change.
f
AMERICAN LEGION HORACE ORR
POST 29 IN MARIETTA CELE-
BRATES 100 YEARS OF SERVICE
HON. BARRY LOUDERMILK
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of American Legion Hor-
ace Orr Post 29 in Marietta, Georgia; which,
on Sunday, September 29, 2019, will cele-
brate its 100th birthday. Post 29 is one of the
oldest in the country and the largest in the
state of Georgia, with 971 legion members
and more than 1,300 members overall.
Post 29 is named in honor of Sgt. William
H. Orr, the only soldier from Marietta, Georgia
killed during WWI. Sgt. Orr worked as a sales-
man for the Dixie Culbert Metal Company in
Atlanta when he was drafted, and honorably
served in the Army, Company A, 325th Infan-
try, 82nd Division. He was killed in action on
October 14, 1918, in the battle of Argonne
Forest in France, and is buried in Mars Hill
Cemetery near Acworth, Georgia. The Amer-
ican Legion was originally founded in Paris,
France in 1919, after WWI, by veterans, to
support veterans and communities. Today, the
Legion is the largest wartime veterans service
organization, with more than 13,000 posts and
nearly two million members worldwide. The
American Legion organization is committed to
helping American veterans from all wars, men-
toring youth, promoting patriotism, serving
communities, and advocating for strong na-
tional security, among other service related
activities.
Given the organization’s longevity and serv-
ice, it is hard to put into words the impact the
American Legion, and Post 29, has had on
our veterans and communities; so I will repeat
these words, directly from American Legion
Horace Orr Post 29 in Marietta, who put it
best, ‘‘We are veterans serving veterans.
Please join us.’’
On behalf of Georgia’s 11th Congressional
District and the United States Congress, and
as a fellow legionnaire, I congratulate the
members of American Legion Post 29 on the
celebration of your 100th year.
f
HONORING THE CENTRAL
ACCOMACK LITTLE LEAGUE SEN-
IOR BOYS AND GIRLS TEAMS
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize the Central Accomack
Little League Senior Boys and Girls teams.
The Girls team won the Virginia State Cham-
pionship and the Boys team won both the Vir-
ginia State Championship and the Southeast
Region Championship.
Congratulations to the Central Accomack
Senior Girls All Star Softball team members:
Hailey Berry, Jordan Crockett, McKenzie
DeAmicis, Taylor Fluhart, Chloe Hall, Haylie
Justice, Jaelyn Killmon, Kathleen McAuliffe,
Brianna Rucker, Alana Shea, Sarah Taylor,
Jamie Lyn Wert, and Logan Woermer. I would
also like to congratulate Manager Bobbie Jo
Wert and Coaches Kimmie Justice and Kim-
berly Wert.
I also extend my congratulations to the Cen-
tral and North Accomack Senior Boys All Star
Baseball team members: Brandon Adamos,
Zykeese Davis, Armonte Dickerson, Landon
Fuller, Tyler Green, Dylan Marshall, Jacob
Meilhammer, Dustin Nelson, Luke Parks,
Dylan Ross, Everett Savage, and Cade Wil-
liams. I congratulate Coaches Ricky Parks,
Chris Beasley, and Bert Adamos, and Man-
ager Shane Fowler.
I would also like to recognize the District 8
President Andy Adler and the Central
Accomack League President Billy Justice for a
very successful season. Finally, I wish to com-
mend Central Accomack Little League for 61
years of service to the youth of the Eastern
Shore.
I wish these teams the best of luck in their
future endeavors.
f
HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF PRIESTHOOD FOR ECU-
MENICAL PATRIARCH BAR-
THOLOMEW OF CONSTANTI-
NOPLE
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to honor Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew of
Constantinople for his 50th anniversary of
Priesthood.
His All Holiness was ordained as a priest on
October 19, 1969. Since that day, he has
never ceased to make strides in religious stud-
ies and world peace. His service to our global
society has had a positive impact on many
lives.
His All Holiness was elected the 270th Arch-
bishop of Constantinople, New Rome, and Ec-
umenical Patriarch on October 22, 1991.
Countless nations and academic institutions
have given His All Holiness awards for his
work. In 1997, to recognize his efforts in both
religious understanding and peace, Ecumeni-
cal Patriarch Bartholomew received the Con-
gressional Gold Medal.
I am grateful for all the good that His All Ho-
liness does for Americans, and those around
the world. Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew
serves as a reminder to us all that the positive
efforts of just one person can be beneficial to
countless lives of others.
CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
SPEECH OF
HON. MARCIA L. FUDGE
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 24, 2019
Ms. FUDGE. Madam Speaker, over 40
states and territories use Broad-Based Cat-
egorical Eligibility or Broad-Based Categorical
Eligibility (or BBCE) to streamline the adminis-
tration of SNAP and provide critical assistance
to households receiving benefits and services
through the Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families block grant.
BBCE is proven to help millions of working
poor families move toward financial security,
by easing the benefits cliff as their earnings in-
crease.
On July 24, 2019, USDA published a pro-
posed rule to restrict the use of BBCE and
eliminate SNAP benefits for an estimated 3.1
million Americans. This includes children,
working families, military veterans, disabled in-
dividuals, and seniors.
Most shameful is the proposals impact on
hungry school-age children. By USDA’s own
estimates, the new policy would take away di-
rect access to free school meals for at least
500,000 schoolchildren.
Nearly half a million children would be left to
go hungry during the school day, shifting the
burden to strapped school districts.
In my state of Ohio, according to the Robert
Wood Johnson Foundation, over 61,000
SNAP households would lose their benefits.
USDA reports that in 2017, the prevalence of
food insecurity among Ohioans was higher
than the national average.
13.7 percent of Ohioans were food insecure
in 2017, compared to 12.3 percent nationally.
Even USDA admits the proposed changes
to SNAP will make food insecurity worse and
make it harder for millions of Americans to get
by.
Most notably, it would remove the current
flexibility for states and territories to use BBCE
to tailor SNAP to best meet the food needs of
their own populations.
Republicans love to talk about states’ rights
when it suits them, but when it comes to the
flexibility of states to meet the needs of their
food-insecure populations, they want some-
thing very different.
As the economy continues to leave working
families and our most vulnerable behind, pro-
grams like SNAP are needed more than ever.
Congress already debated these issues.
We came together and rejected this policy
in both the 2014 and 2018 farm bills with a
record bipartisan vote.
This proposed rule is shameful and cruel
and is contrary to the will of Congress.
This unilateral action by the Administration
only complicates legitimate bipartisan efforts to
make programs like SNAP more effective and
efficient for the millions of people who rely on
it to put food on the table.
We should be working together to strength-
en the safety net, not weaken it.
I urge USDA to rescind this harmful pro-
posed rule immediately and finally make good
on its promise to the American people to ‘‘Do
Right and Feed Everyone’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE8.003 E25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1207
September 25, 2019
CELEBRATING NORMAN WISEMAN
ON HIS 80TH BIRTHDAY
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Norman Wiseman, a great
Hoosier celebrating his 80th birthday.
Norman was born on September 25, 1939,
in Ridge Farm, Illinois, as the youngest of
three brothers. At a young age, Norman
moved with his family to northern Indiana,
where he attended Madison High School and
fell in love with his late wife, Sonja Gall. They
graduated in 1958 and got married a year
later on Valentine’s Day.
Through a lot of hard work, dedication, and
compassion for one another, Norman and
Sonja built a beautiful life together full of love,
laughter, and happiness. They had children,
started a business, grew a garden every sum-
mer, and even raised honey bees. Norman
has always been active in the community and
has taught his family the cherished lessons of
kindness, integrity, and faith.
Though his business, Wiseman Plumbing, is
Norman’s passion, his greatest accomplish-
ments are the positive contributions he has
made to the lives of those around him and his
family. He remained steadfast and committed
as his business thrived, and he continues to
work years after he closed up his shop. When
he’s not working, he loves connecting with
people and spending time around the commu-
nity. At church he is known as ‘‘Norman the
Doorman,’’ greeting churchgoers each Sun-
day.
His wife Dee and his five children, four
grandchildren, and first great-grandchild,
David, are life’s true blessings for Norman. All
who know him are undoubtedly touched by his
friendliness and spirit, and I am humbled to
call him a friend.
Madam Speaker, Norman Wiseman sets a
profound example as a good father, loving
grandfather, avid businessman, and caring
friend. On behalf of 2nd District Hoosiers, I
wish Norman a very happy birthday and many
more years of continued health and happi-
ness.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LOCAL
781 CHAPTER OF THE INTER-
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIRE
FIGHTERS
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I proudly
rise today to recognize and celebrate the sev-
enty-fifth anniversary of the Local 781 chapter
of the International Association of Fire Fighters
(IAFF). For seventy-five years, Local 781 fire-
fighters in Independence, Missouri, have
proudly served and protected their community.
Supporting one of the oldest municipalities
in Jackson County, Missouri, the contributions
of Local 781 are engrained in the complex his-
tory of the Independence Fire Department and
steeped in tradition, dedication and bravery. In
1843, as the prospering village flourished, so
did a growing need to protect what they had
established, leading to the emergence of the
Independence Fire Department.
Consisting of volunteer fire fighters, the
Independence Fire Department originally
fought fires in the community with buckets as
their only equipment, For 175 years, the Inde-
pendence Fire Department has upheld this
same tenacious, innovative spirit. It has
evolved and grown to meet the everchanging
needs of the community it serves, and today
encompasses ten fire stations, over 150 per-
sonnel, an area of seventy-eight square miles,
and an institution that boldly protects and
serves the community.
The men and women employed by the Inde-
pendence Fire Department have been proudly
and faithfully represented by the Local 781
chapter of the International Association of Fire
Fighters (IAFF) since the formation of the local
chapter in 1944, empowering them to maintain
the same selfless sacrifice in the protection of
countless lives.
Moreover, the International Association of
Fire Fighters (IAFF) represents more than
295,000 full-time professional firefighters and
paramedics who protect eighty-five percent of
the nation’s population. This endeavor is as-
sisted by the nearly 3,100 affiliates and their
members in every state across the United
States and Canada. The IAFF not only rep-
resents firefighters and paramedics but also
includes state employees, federal workers,
and fire and emergency medical personnel
employed at certain industrial facilities.
As leaders, advocates, and champions for
its members, the International Association of
Fire Fighters has played a pivotal role in every
advance in fire and emergency services in the
20th century. From the introduction of shift
schedules early in the last century to the en-
actment of SAFER in 2003, which helps bol-
ster access to careers in essential emergency
response, ensuring better work conditions for
these responders, and providing established
professional standards for fire service. The
IAFF has consistently been there to fight for
responders and improvements to public safety.
Today, the International Association of Fire
Fighters continues to spearhead policy that
ensures the well-being of its members and
places emphasis on their ability to safely exe-
cute their duties. The growth and success of
this institution is reflective of its member-driv-
en initiatives and commitment to be an organi-
zation for firefighters, by firefighters.
Madam Speaker, please join me and all of
Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District in cele-
brating the seventy-fifth anniversary of Local
781 chapter of the International Association of
Fire Fighters. Let us join in recognizing the
bravery of its members, both past and
present, who honorably serve the community
of Independence, Missouri.
f
CELEBRATING THE PASTORAL AN-
NIVERSARY OF PASTOR EDDIE
WILLIAMS
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Pastor Eddie Williams for his thir-
teen years of service to the congregation at
Lakeridge Village Ministries Church of God in
Christ.
Lakeridge Village Ministries was founded on
the principle of uplifting people from all walks
of life in spirituality and that the gift of spiritu-
ality is not limited to clergy. Pastor Williams
has sought to lead his flock under that guid-
ance, fostering a true sense of community and
caring for the most vulnerable. In addition to
his work in ministry, Pastor Williams has
sought to expand resources and options for
people suffering from the pain of addiction and
mental illness. His work at Lakeridge Village
has accomplished so much in fighting the stig-
ma around mental health issues and con-
necting those struggling with substance abuse
to the assistance they need. In short Pastor
Williams has performed outstanding service to
the community through his ministry and chari-
table work.
Please join me in tribute to Pastor Eddie
Williams in celebration of his thirteen years in
spiritual service to Lakeridge Village Ministries
Church of God in Christ.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL ATAXIA
AWARENESS DAY
HON. ADRIANO ESPAILLAT
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of National Ataxia Aware-
ness Day, and to honor the courage of the
one hundred and fifty thousand Americans liv-
ing with Ataxia, a neurodegenerative disease
that affects the ability to coordinate movement.
Those with Ataxia may have difficulty walking,
speaking, and executing fine motor skills, and
for some may lead to early death.
I would also like to honor the contributions
of the National Ataxia Foundation, which is
dedicated to improving the lives of those im-
pacted by Ataxia including those with the dis-
ease, and their caregivers through support,
education, and research.
I applaud their commitment and advocacy at
the State and Federal levels to raise aware-
ness of this disease and urge my colleagues
to learn more about it and laud the efforts
being taken to break down the isolation bar-
riers and misconceptions around Ataxia.
I especially want to thank my constituent,
Ms. Kim Brown for reaching out to me and my
office to raise awareness of Ataxia and sup-
port research efforts to benefit those in my
district and across the nation who live with this
condition.
Today I stand in solidarity with all Ameri-
cans battling Ataxia, and the dedicated sci-
entists, health care workers, and caregivers
who support them. I look forward to the day
when this devastating condition can be cured.
f
HONORING SENIOR SPECIAL
AGENT LAZARO ‘‘LARRY’’ COSME
HON. DENVER RIGGLEMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Senior Special Agent Lazaro
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25SE8.008 E25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1208 September 25, 2019
‘‘Larry’’ Cosme who is retiring from his post as
the National President of the Federal Law En-
forcement Officers Association after 27 years
of service. Special Agent Cosme has honor-
ably served his country working as the top Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement officer for
both Washington, D.C. and Virginia. He is a
hero we can all be proud of.
The 27 years Special Agent Cosme has
spent in law enforcement have been a gift to
our nation and our communities. As the Na-
tional President of the Federal Law Enforce-
ment Officers Association Larry Cosme stood
up for American police officers and fought to
make sure they were properly trained and
properly equipped for the difficult tasks they
face. I am grateful for the work he has done
and am proud to call him a 5th District Con-
stituent.
I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring
Senior Special Agent Cosme and wish him a
happy and restful retirement.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I missed
one vote on September 24, 2019 as I was
hosting the Secretary of the U.S. Department
of Transportation in my congressional district.
Had I been present, I would have voted yea
on Roll Call No. 541.
f
CONGRATULATING DR. DAVID
RUIZ ON RECEIVING THE BRAVO
AWARD
HON. JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate my friend, Dr.
David Ruiz, on receiving the prestigious Bravo
Award from the Hispanic Metropolitan Cham-
ber for his outstanding work to help improve
the health of the Latino community in South-
west Washington.
Before moving to the Pacific Northwest,
David was born and raised in Tucson, Ari-
zona. His career has been defined by many
stages, first as an original member of the first
youth mariachi in the United States and then
as a professional musician. After moving to
Southwest Washington and joining
PeaceHealth Southwest Medical Center in
1994, David founded the Family Medicine
Residency program at Family Medicine of
Southwest Washington and has served as the
director of the program for over 25 years.
David also continues to dedicate his time to
our communities by serving on several boards
and committees that impact the health care of
Southwest Washington residents.
Through David’s tireless efforts, he has
helped improve the health and well-being of
so many, notably many Spanish-speaking resi-
dents of Southwest Washington. I want to
commend David for his unwavering dedication
to our community; there is no one more de-
serving of this award.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
September 26, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:27 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25SE8.012 E25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1066
Wednesday, September 25, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5673–S5712
Measures Introduced: Seven bills and thirteen reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2543–2549,
and S. Res. 330–342. Page S5706
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised Alloca-
tion to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2020’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–121)
S. 1245, to improve energy performance in Fed-
eral buildings, with amendments. (S. Rept. No.
116–117)
S. 1685, to require the Secretary of Energy to es-
tablish a program for the research, development, and
demonstration of commercially viable technologies
for the capture of carbon dioxide produced during
the generation of natural gas-generated power, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–118)
S. 1857, to amend the National Energy Conserva-
tion Policy Act to improve Federal energy and water
performance requirements for Federal buildings and
establish a Federal Energy Management Program,
with amendments. (S. Rept. No. 116–119)
S. 2543, to amend titles XI, XVIII, and XIX of
the Social Security Act to lower prescription drug
prices in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to
improve transparency related to pharmaceutical
prices and transactions, to lower patients’ out-of-
pocket costs, and to ensure accountability to tax-
payers. (S. Rept. No. 116–120)
S. 2099, to redesignate the Sullys Hill National
Game Preserve in the State of North Dakota as the
White Horse Hill National Game Preserve.
S. 2260, to provide for the improvement of do-
mestic infrastructure in order to prevent marine de-
bris, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. Page S5705
Measures Passed:
National Emergency Declaration: Committee on
Armed Services was discharged from further consid-
eration of S.J. Res. 54, relating to a national emer-
gency declared by the President on February 15,
2019, and the resolution was then passed in a roll
call vote, 54 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. 302).
Pages S5674–81
Federal Election Interference: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 330, instructing the managers on the part of
the Senate on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to
require certain measures to address Federal election
interference by foreign governments.
Pages S5681–91, S5691–92
Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.: By 91 yeas to 4
nays (Vote No. 303), Senate agreed to S. Res. 331,
instructing the managers on the part of the Senate
on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon
the inclusion of the provisions of S. 2118 (116th
Congress) (relating to the prohibition of United
States persons from dealing in certain information
and communications technology or services from for-
eign adversaries and requiring the approval of Con-
gress to terminate certain export controls in effect
with respect to Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.).
Pages S5681–91, S5691–92
Survivor Benefit Plan: By a unanimous vote of
94 yeas (Vote No. 304), Senate agreed to S. Res.
332, instructing the managers on the part of the
Senate on the conference on the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) to insist upon the provisions contained in
section 630A of the House amendment (relating to
the repeal of a requirement of reduction of Survivor
Benefit Plan survivor annuities by amounts of de-
pendency and indemnity compensation).
Pages S5681–91, S5691–93
Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 334, instructing the managers on the part
of the Senate on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress)
to insist upon the provisions contained in section
316 of the Senate bill (relating to a prohibition on
the use of perfluoroalkyl substances and
polyfluoroalkyl substances for land-based applications
of firefighting foam). Pages S5681–91, S5691–93
Replenishment of Certain Military Construction
Funds: By 52 yeas to 42 nays (Vote No. 306), Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 335, instructing the managers
on the part of the Senate on the bill S. 1790 (116th
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1067
September 25, 2019
Congress) to insist upon the members of the con-
ference to include the provisions contained in section
2906 of the Senate bill (relating to replenishment of
certain military construction funds).
Pages S5681–91, S5691–94
Family and Medical Leave: By 55 yeas to 39
nays (Vote No. 307), Senate agreed to S. Res. 336,
instructing the managers on the part of the Senate
on the bill S. 1790 (116th Congress) to insist upon
the members of the conference to consider potential
commonsense solutions regarding family and medical
leave, including voluntary compensatory time pro-
grams and incentives through the tax code.
Pages S5681–91, S5691–95
Measures Failed:
Paid Family Leave for Federal Personnel: By 47
yeas to 48 nays (Vote No. 305), Senate failed to
agree to S. Res. 333, instructing the managers on
the part of the Senate on the bill S. 1790 (116th
Congress) to insist upon the provisions contained in
subtitle B of title XI of the House amendment (re-
lating to paid family leave for Federal personnel).
Pages S5681–91, S5691–93
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2020, and
Health Extenders Act of 2019—Agreement: A
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing
that at approximately 10 a.m., on Thursday, Sep-
tember 26, 2019, Senate begin consideration of H.R.
4378, making continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2020, that the only amendment in order be
Paul Amendment No. 942, and the time until 12:15
p.m. be equally divided in the usual form, and that
at 12:15 p.m., Senate vote on or in relation to Paul
Amendment No. 942, and that following disposition
of the amendment, Senate vote on passage of the
bill, as amended, if amended, with 60 affirmative
votes required for passage. Page S5712
Scalia Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Eugene Scalia, of Vir-
ginia, to be Secretary of Labor. Pages S5674, S5695–96
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5674
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 52 yeas to 42 nays (Vote No. EX. 309), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S5695–96
Hyten Nomination—Cloture: By 73 yeas to 21
nays (Vote No. EX. 308), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Gen. John E. Hyten for appointment as Vice Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and for appointment
in the United States Air Force to the grade indicated
while assigned to a position of importance and re-
sponsibility in accordance with title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tions 154 and 601: to be General. Page S5695
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that on Thursday, September 26, 2019, fol-
lowing disposition of H.R. 4378, Senate resume con-
sideration of the nomination, with the time until
1:30 p.m., equally divided between the Leaders, or
their designees, and that at 1:30 p.m., the post-clo-
ture time on the nominations of Gen. John E.
Hyten, and Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to be Sec-
retary of Labor, be considered expired and Senate
vote on confirmation of the nominations in the order
listed. Page S5712
Messages from the House: Page S5703
Measures Referred: Page S5703
Executive Communications: Pages S5703–05
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S5705–06
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5706–08
Additional Statements: Pages S5702–03
Amendments Submitted: Page S5712
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5712
Record Votes: Eight record votes were taken today.
(Total—309) Pages S5681, S5692, S5694, S5695, S5696
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:23 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
September 26, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S5712.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY PERSPECTIVES
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine perspectives
on the livestock and poultry sectors, after receiving
testimony from Jennifer Houston, East Tennessee
Livestock Center, Sweetwater, on behalf of the Na-
tional Cattlemen’s Beef Association; Ron Kardel,
West Liberty Foods, Walcott, Iowa, on behalf of the
National Turkey Federation; Jayson L. Lusk, Purdue
University Department of Agricultural Economics,
West Lafayette, Indiana; Burton Pfliger, Roselawn
Legacy Hampshires, Bismarck, North Dakota, on be-
half of the American Sheep Industry Association;
Trent Thiele, Iowa Pork Producers Association,
Elma, on behalf of the National Pork Producers
Council; and Shane Eaton, Eaton Charolais, Lindsay,
Montana, on behalf of the United States Cattlemen’s
Association.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1068 September 25, 2019
FACILITATING FASTER PAYMENTS
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine facili-
tating faster payments in the United States, after re-
ceiving testimony from Esther George, President,
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, on
behalf of the Federal Reserve System; Robert Hun-
ter, The Clearing House Payments Company, Robert
A. Steen, Bridge Community Bank, on behalf of the
Independent Community Bankers of America, and
George Selgin, Cato Institute Center for Monetary
and Financial Alternatives, all of Washington, D.C.;
and Sheila C. Bair, former Chair of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation, Independence, Kansas.
FISHERY FAILURES
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine fishery
failures, focusing on improving the disaster declara-
tion and relief process, after receiving testimony
from Chris Oliver, Assistant Administrator for Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Depart-
ment of Commerce; Joe Spraggins, Mississippi De-
partment of Marine Resources, Biloxi; Rachel Baker,
Alaska Department of Fish and Game, Juneau; Rob-
ert Spottswood, Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission, Key West; and Ron Warren,
Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife,
Olympia.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
ordered favorably reported the following business
items:
S. 334, to authorize the construction of the
Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System and study of
the Dry-Redwater Regional Water Authority System
in the States of Montana and North Dakota;
S. 607, to amend the Department of Energy Or-
ganization Act to address insufficient compensation
of employees and other personnel of the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission, with an amendment;
S. 860, to amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to modify the terms of the
Jackson Gulch rehabilitation project in Colorado,
with an amendment;
S. 990, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior
to participate in the implementation of the Platte
River Recovery Implementation Program First Incre-
ment Extension for threatened and endangered spe-
cies in the Central and Lower Platte River Basin;
S. 1570, to provide flexibility to allow greater aq-
uifer recharge, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute;
S. 1602, to amend the United States Energy Stor-
age Competitiveness Act of 2007 to establish a re-
search, development, and demonstration program for
grid-scale energy storage systems, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1751, to amend the Reclamation Project Act of
1939 to authorize pumped storage hydropower de-
velopment utilizing multiple Bureau of Reclamation
reservoirs, with an amendment;
S. 1821, to amend the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 to provide for research on, and
the development and deployment of, marine energy,
with an amendment;
S. 1882, to make available the continued use of
Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program project use
power by the Kinsey Irrigation Company and the
Sidney Water Users Irrigation District, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1931, to require the Administrator of the
Western Area Power Administration to establish a
pilot project to provide increased transparency for
customers;
S. 2044, to amend the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 to establish an Aging In-
frastructure Account, to amend the Reclamation
Safety of Dams Act of 1978 to provide additional
funds under that Act, to establish a review of flood
control rule curves pilot project within the Bureau
of Reclamation, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute;
S. 2094 and H.R. 2114, bills to amend the En-
ergy Policy and Conservation Act to provide Federal
financial assistance to States to implement, review,
and revise State energy security plans, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2095, to provide for certain programs and de-
velopments in the Department of Energy concerning
the cybersecurity and vulnerabilities of, and physical
threat to, the electric grid;
S. 2137, to promote energy savings in residential
buildings and industry;
S. 2300, to amend the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 to establish a program to
incentivize innovation and to enhance the industrial
competitiveness of the United States by developing
technologies to reduce emissions of nonpower indus-
trial sectors, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute;
S. 2332, to provide for the modernization of the
electric grid;
S. 2333, to provide for enhanced energy grid secu-
rity;
S. 2334, to require the Secretary of Energy to es-
tablish the 21st Century Energy Workforce Advisory
Board;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1069
September 25, 2019
S. 2335, to accelerate smart building develop-
ment; and
H.R. 1420, to amend the Energy Independence
and Security Act of 2007 to promote energy effi-
ciency via information and computing technologies.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee ordered favorably reported the following busi-
ness items:
S. 2260, to provide for the improvement of do-
mestic infrastructure in order to prevent marine de-
bris, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 2099, to redesignate the Sullys Hill National
Game Preserve in the State of North Dakota as the
White Horse Hill National Game Preserve;
The nominations of Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana,
to be Director of the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service, Department of the Interior, and Kath-
erine Andrea Lemos, of California, to be a Member
and to be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and
Hazard Investigation Board; and
8 General Services Administration resolutions.
U.S. POLICY IN MEXICO AND CENTRAL
AMERICA
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine United States policy in Mexico
and Central America, focusing on ensuring effective
policies to address the crisis at the border, after re-
ceiving testimony from Kirsten D. Madison, Assist-
ant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement Affairs, and Michael Kozak, Acting As-
sistant Secretary, Bureau of Western Hemisphere Af-
fairs, both of the Department of State.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the following business items:
S. 1590, to amend the State Department Basic
Authorities Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to transnational
organized crime;
S. 1678, to express United States support for Tai-
wan’s diplomatic alliances around the world, with an
amendment;
S. 1838, to amend the Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992, with an amendment;
S. 2372, to enhance global engagement to combat
marine debris, with an amendment;
S. Res. 183, reaffirming the vital role of the
United States-Japan alliance in promoting peace, sta-
bility, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and
beyond;
S. Res. 236, reaffirming the strong partnership be-
tween Tunisia and the United States and supporting
the people of Tunisia in their continued pursuit of
democratic reforms;
S. Res. 277, remembering the 25th Anniversary of
the bombing of the Argentine Israelite Mutual Asso-
ciation (AMIA) Jewish Community Center in Buenos
Aires, Argentina, and recommitting to efforts to up-
hold justice for the 85 victims of the attacks;
S. Res. 318, to support the Global Fund to fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the Sixth Re-
plenishment, with an amendment;
The nominations of Adam Seth Boehler, of Lou-
isiana, to be Chief Executive Officer of the United
States International Development Finance Corpora-
tion, and Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to be
Ambassador to Romania, Department of State; and
A routine list in the Foreign Service.
COUNTERING DOMESTIC TERRORISM
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine
countering domestic terrorism, focusing on the
evolving threat, after receiving testimony from Wil-
liam Braniff, University of Maryland National Con-
sortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to
Terrorism, College Park; Clint Watts, Foreign Policy
Research Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Rob-
ert Chesney, University of Texas Robert S. Strauss
Center for International Security and Law, Austin;
and George Selim, Anti-Defamation League, Wash-
ington, D.C.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, Jodi W. Dishman, to
be United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Oklahoma, who was introduced by Senator
Lankford, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, who
was introduced by Senator Blunt, and Daniel Mack
Traynor, to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, who was introduced by
Senator Hoeven, after the nominees testified and an-
swered questions in their own behalf.
TOXIC EXPOSURE
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine toxic exposure, focusing on ex-
amining the Department of Veterans Affairs’s pre-
sumptive disability decision-making process, after re-
ceiving testimony from Patricia R. Hastings, Chief
Consultant, Post Deployment Health Services, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1070 September 25, 2019
Drew Helmer, Director, War Related Illness and In-
jury Study Center, both of the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration, Department of Veterans Affairs; Terry
Rauch, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Health Affairs), Health Readiness Policy and Over-
sight; David A. Butler, Director, Office of Military
and Veterans Health, National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; Shane L.
Liermann, Disabled American Veterans, Washington,
D.C.; and Robert F. Miller, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
PROMOTING HEALTHY AGING
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine promoting healthy aging, focus-
ing on living your best life long into your golden
years, after receiving testimony from Rudolph Tanzi,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts;
Susan Hughes, University of Illinois Center for Re-
search on Health and Aging, Chicago; Diane
Dickerson, Bangor Regional YMCA, Bangor, Maine;
and Brian L. Long, Pennsylvania Link to Aging and
Disability Resources, Lancaster.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 15 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4484–4498; and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 589, 590, 592–595 were introduced.
Pages H7988–89
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7990–91
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 591, providing for consideration of the
joint resolution (S.J. Res. 54) relating to a national
emergency declared by the President of February 15,
2019 (H. Rept. 116–218). Page H7988
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Beatty to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H7907
Recess: The House recessed at 10:32 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Pages H7911–12
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Dr. J.D. Greear, The Summit
Church, Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina.
Page H7912
Recess: The House recessed at 1:50 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:40 p.m. Pages H7920–21
Committee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture—Communication: Read a letter from Chair-
man DeFazio wherein he transmitted copies of six
resolutions included in the General Services Admin-
istration’s Capital Investment and Leasing Programs.
The resolutions were adopted by the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure on September 19,
2019. Pages H7934–35
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measure:
Secure And Fair Enforcement Banking Act of
2019: H.R. 1595, amended, to create protections for
depository institutions that provide financial services
to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service
providers for such businesses, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 321 yeas to 103 nays, Roll No. 544.
Pages H7962–74
Homeland Security Improvement Act: The House
passed H.R. 2203, to increase transparency, account-
ability, and community engagement within the De-
partment of Homeland Security, provide inde-
pendent oversight of border security activities, im-
prove training for agents and officers of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, by a yea-and-nay vote of
230 yeas to 194 nays, Roll No. 546.
Pages H7928–34, H7974–76
Rejected the Green (TN) motion to recommitthe
bill to the Committee on Homeland Security with
instructions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
207 ayes to 216 noes, Roll No. 545. Pages H7974–76
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–27, modified by the amend-
ment printed in H. Rept. 116–217, shall be consid-
ered as adopted, in lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Homeland Security now printed in the bill.
Page H7928
H. Res. 577, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 2203) and (H.R. 3525) and the
resolution (H. Res. 576) was agreed to, as amended,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 228 yeas to 191 nays, Roll
No. 543, after the Scanlon amendment was agreed
to by voice vote, after the previous question was or-
dered on the amendment and the resolution by a
yea-and-nay vote of 227 yeas to 191 nays, Roll No.
542. Pages H7913–20
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1071
September 25, 2019
Question of Privilege: Representative McCarthy
rose to a question of the privileges of the House and
submitted a resolution. Upon examination of the res-
olution, the Chair determined that the resolution
qualified. Subsequently, the House agreed to the
Hoyer motion to table H. Res. 590, raising a ques-
tion of the privileges of the House, by a recorded
vote of 232 ayes to 193 noes, Roll No. 547.
Pages H7976–77
Expressing the sense of the House of Represent-
atives with respect to the whistleblower com-
plaint of August 12, 2019, made to the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community: The
House agreed to H. Res. 576, as amended, express-
ing the sense of the House of Representatives with
respect to the whistleblower complaint of August
12, 2019, made to the Inspector General of the In-
telligence Community, by a yea-and-nay vote of 421
yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’ and two answering
‘‘present’’, Roll No. 548. Pages H7921–28, H7977–78
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendments to the text
and preamble specified in section 11 are adopted and
the resolution, as amended, is considered as read.
Page H7919
H. Res. 577, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 2203) and (H.R. 3525) and the
resolution (H. Res. 576) was agreed to, as amended,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 228 yeas to 191 nays, Roll
No. 543, after the Scanlon amendment was agreed
to by voice vote, after the previous question was or-
dered on the amendment and the resolution by a
yea-and-nay vote of 227 yeas to 191 nays, Roll No.
542. Pages H7913–20
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Kelly (MS) wherein he resigned from the
Committee on Small Business. Page H7978
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Ratcliffe wherein he resigned from the
Committee on Homeland Security. Page H7978
Senate Referral: S.J. Res. 54 was held at the desk.
Senate Messages: Message received from the Senate
today and message received from the Senate by the
Clerk and subsequently presented to the House
today appears on pages H7913 and H7934.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Five yea-and-nay votes and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H7919–20, H7920,
H7973–74, H7975–76, H7976, H7977, and
H7978. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:38 p.m.
Committee Meetings
INTERNATIONAL FOOD ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS AT USDA AND USAID
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘International Food Assistance Programs at
USDA and USAID’’. Testimony was heard from
Trey Hicks, Director, Office of Food for Peace, U.S.
Agency for International Development; and Ken
Isley, Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service,
Department of Agriculture.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION:
PROTECTING CONSUMERS AND
FOSTERING COMPETITION IN THE 21ST
CENTURY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Federal Trade Commission: Protecting
Consumers and Fostering Competition in the 21st
Century’’. Testimony was heard from Rohit Chopra,
Commissioner, Federal Trade Commission; and Jo-
seph J. Simons, Chairman, Federal Trade Commis-
sion.
INVESTMENTS IN MEDICAL RESEARCH AT
FIVE INSTITUTES AND CENTERS OF THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Investments in Medical Research at Five In-
stitutes and Centers of the National Institutes of
Health’’. Testimony was heard from the following
National Institutes of Health officials: Francis Col-
lins, M.D., Director; Bruce Tromberg, Director, Na-
tional Institutes of Biomedical Imaging and Bio-
engineering; Eliseo Perez-Stable, M.D., Director, Na-
tional Institute on Minority Health and Health Dis-
parities; Helene Langevin, M.D., Director, National
Center for Complementary and Integrative Health;
Christopher Austin, M.D., Director, National Center
for Advancing Translational Sciences; and Patricia
Flatley Brennan, Director, National Library of Medi-
cine.
OVERSIGHT HEARING: FAA AVIATION
CERTIFICATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: FAA Aviation
Certification’’. Testimony was heard from Daniel K.
Elwell, Deputy Administrator, Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration; and Earl Lawrence, Executive Director,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1072 September 25, 2019
Aircraft Certification Service, Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration.
STATUS OF THE B61–12 LIFE EXTENSION
AND W88 ALTERATION–370 PROGRAMS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces held a hearing entitled ‘‘Status of the
B61–12 Life Extension and W88 Alteration–370
Programs’’. Testimony was heard from Charles P.
Verdon, Deputy Administrator for Defense Pro-
grams, National Nuclear Security Administration;
Vice Admiral Johnny Wolfe, Director, Strategic Sys-
tems Programs, U.S. Navy; and Lieutenant General
Richard Clark, Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic
Deterrence and Nuclear Integration, U.S. Air Force.
AMERICA’S INFRASTRUCTURE: TODAY’S
GAPS, TOMORROW’S OPPORTUNITIES,
AND THE NEED FOR FEDERAL
INVESTMENT
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘America’s Infrastructure: Today’s Gaps,
Tomorrow’s Opportunities, and the Need for Federal
Investment’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 2474, the ‘‘Protecting the
Right to Organize Act of 2019’’. H.R. 2474 was or-
dered reported, as amended.
SOUNDING THE ALARM: THE PUBLIC
HEALTH THREATS OF E CIGARETTES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Sounding the Alarm: The Public Health Threats of
E-Cigarettes’’. Testimony was heard from Norman E.
Sharpless, M.D., Acting Commissioner, Food and
Drug Administration, Department of Health and
Human Services; Anne Schuchat, M.D., Principal
Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices; Joneigh Khaldun, M.D., Chief Deputy Director
for Health and Chief Medical Executive, Michigan
Department of Health and Human Services; Eliza-
beth Cuervo Tilson, M.D., State Health Director and
Chief Medical Officer, North Carolina Department
of Health and Human Services; Lee Norman, M.D.,
Secretary, Kansas Department of Health and Envi-
ronment; and Monica Bharel, M.D., Commissioner,
Massachusetts Department of Public Health.
MAKING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS MORE
AFFORDABLE: LEGISLATION TO
NEGOTIATE A BETTER DEAL FOR
AMERICANS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Making Prescription
Drugs More Affordable: Legislation to Negotiate a
Better Deal for Americans’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY:
ASSESSING THREATS TO THE U.S.
FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on Con-
sumer Protection and Financial Institutions held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Financial Stability: As-
sessing Threats to the U.S. Financial System’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Dino Falaschetti, Director, Of-
fice of Financial Research, Department of the Treas-
ury; and Lael Brainard, Governor, Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System.
PROTECTING SENIORS: A REVIEW OF THE
FHA’S HOME EQUITY CONVERSION
MORTGAGE (HECM) PROGRAM
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on
Housing, Community Development, and Insurance
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting Seniors: A Re-
view of the FHA’s Home Equity Conversion Mort-
gage (HECM) Program’’. Testimony was heard from
Alicia Puente Cackley, Director, Financial Markets
and Community Investment, Government Account-
ability Office; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
markup on H. Res. 543, recognizing Hong Kong’s
bilateral relationship with the United States, con-
demning the interference of the People’s Republic of
China in Hong Kong’s affairs, and supporting the
people of Hong Kong’s right to protest; H.R. 3289,
the ‘‘Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act
of 2019’’; H. Res. 517, supporting the Global Fund
to fight AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, and its
Sixth Replenishment; H. Res. 387, condemning con-
tinued violence against civilians by armed groups in
the Central African Republic and supporting efforts
to achieve a lasting political solution to the conflict;
H. Res. 552, calling on the Government of the Rus-
sian Federation to provide evidence of wrongdoing or
to release United States citizen Paul Whelan; H.R.
4270, the ‘‘PROTECT Hong Kong Act’’; and H.
Res. 521, commending the Government of Canada
for upholding the rule of law and expressing concern
over actions by the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Government of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:23 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\D25SE9.REC D25SE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1073
September 25, 2019
Canada for the extradition of a Huawei Technologies
Co., Ltd., executive. H. Res. 543, H.R. 3289, H.R.
4270, and H. Res. 387 were ordered reported, as
amended. H. Res. 517, H. Res. 552, and H. Res.
521 were ordered reported, without amendment.
ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF CUTTING
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE TO CENTRAL
AMERICA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Assessing the Impact of
Cutting Foreign Assistance to Central America’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R.1975, the ‘‘Cybersecurity Advisory
Committee Authorization Act of 2019’’; H.R.4432,
the ‘‘Protecting Critical Infrastructure Against
Drones and Emerging Threats Act’’. H.R. 4432 and
H.R. 1975 were ordered reported, as amended.
PROTECTING AMERICA FROM ASSAULT
WEAPONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting America from Assault
Weapons’’. Testimony was heard from Nan Whaley,
Mayor, Dayton, Ohio; RaShall Brackney, Chief of
Police, Charlottesville, Virginia; and public wit-
nesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 729, the ‘‘Tribal Coastal Resil-
iency Act’’; H.R. 925, the ‘‘North American Wet-
lands Conservation Extension Act’’; H.R. 1472, to
rename the Homestead National Monument of
America near Beatrice, Nebraska, as the Homestead
National Historical Park; H.R. 1487, the ‘‘Santa
Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Bound-
ary Adjustment Study Act’’; H.R. 1492, the ‘‘Yucca
House National Monument Boundary Revision Act’’;
H.R. 1747, the ‘‘National Fish Habitat Conservation
Through Partnerships Act’’; H.R. 2185, the ‘‘Dis-
trict of Columbia Flood Prevention Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3115, the ‘‘Living Shorelines Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3541, the ‘‘Coastal State Climate Preparedness
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3596, the ‘‘Keep America’s
Waterfronts Working Act’’. H.R. 729, H.R. 925,
H.R. 1472, H.R. 2185, and H.R. 3541 were or-
dered reported, without amendment. H.R. 1487,
H.R. 1492, H.R. 1747, H.R. 3115, and H.R. 3596
were ordered reported, as amended.
ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS: PROTECTING
TRIBAL COMMUNITIES FROM THE EFFECTS
OF A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee for In-
digenous Peoples of the United States held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Advance Appropriations: Protecting Tribal
Communities from the Effects of a Government
Shutdown’’. Testimony was heard from Representa-
tives McCollum and Young; Jason Freihage, Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Management, Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Department of
the Interior; Rear Admiral Michael D. Weahkee,
Principal Deputy Director, Indian Health Service,
Department of Health and Human Services; and
public witnesses.
NEXTGEN FEDS: RECRUITING THE NEXT
GENERATION OF PUBLIC SERVANTS
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled
‘‘NextGen Feds: Recruiting the Next Generation of
Public Servants’’. Testimony was heard from Rep-
resentative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York; Robert
Goldenkoff, Director of Strategic Issues, Government
Accountability Office; and public witnesses.
RELATING TO A NATIONAL EMERGENCY
DECLARED BY THE PRESIDENT ON
FEBRUARY 15, 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
S.J. Res. 54, relating to a national emergency de-
clared by the President on February 15, 2019. The
Committee granted, by record vote of 9–4, a closed
rule providing for consideration of S.J. Res. 54, Re-
lating to a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019. The rule provides one
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the joint resolution. The rule provides that the
joint resolution shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
joint resolution. Finally, the rule provides one mo-
tion to commit.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a markup on H.R. 4373, the ‘‘Engineer-
ing Biology Research and Development Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4372, the ‘‘MSI STEM Achievement
Act’’; and H.R. 4355, the ‘‘Identifying Outputs of
Generative Adversarial Networks Act’’. H.R. 4373,
H.R. 4372, and H.R. 4355 were ordered reported,
as amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1074 September 25, 2019
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 4406, the ‘‘Small Business Devel-
opment Centers Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R.
4405, the ‘‘Women’s Business Centers Improvements
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4407, the ‘‘SCORE for Small
Business Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4387, to establish
Growth Accelerator Fund Competition within the
Small Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses. H.R. 4406, H.R. 4405, H.R. 4407, and H.R.
4387 were ordered reported, without amendment.
LANDLORD AND TENANT: THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S OVERSIGHT OF THE
TRUMP INTERNATIONAL HOTEL LEASE
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Economic Development, Public Build-
ings, and Emergency Management held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Landlord and Tenant: The Trump Adminis-
tration’s Oversight of the Trump International Hotel
Lease’’. Testimony was heard from Daniel Mathews,
Public Buildings Commissioner, General Services
Administration; Carol F. Ochoa, Inspector General,
General Services Administration; Michael A. Foster,
Legislative Attorney, American Law Division, Con-
gressional Research Service, Library of Congress; and
public witnesses.
COAST GUARD AND PORT
INFRASTRUCTURE: BUILT TO LAST?
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation held a hearing entitled ‘‘Coast Guard and Port
Infrastructure: Built to Last?’’. Testimony was heard
from Rear Admiral Nathan Moore, Assistant Com-
mandant for Engineering and Logistics, U.S. Coast
Guard; Nathan Anderson, Acting Director, Home-
land Security and Justice, General Accountability
Office; Rear Admiral Ann C. Phillips, U.S. Navy
(Ret.), Special Assistant to the Governor for Coastal
Adaptation and Protection, Office of the Governor,
Virginia; and public witnesses.
MISSION CRITICAL: CARE IN THE
COMMUNITY UPDATE
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘MISSION Critical:
Care in the Community Update’’. Testimony was
heard from Richard Stone, Executive in Charge, Vet-
erans’ Health Administration, Department of Vet-
erans Affairs; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 26, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: business meeting to markup
an original bill making appropriations for Interior, Envi-
ronment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, an original bill making appropria-
tions for State, Foreign Operations, and related programs
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, an original
bill making appropriations for Commerce, Justice,
Science, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, an original bill making appropria-
tions for Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and an original bill making appro-
priations for Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on East
Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy,
to hold hearings to examine the Hong Kong emergency,
focusing on securing freedom, autonomy, and human
rights, 10:45 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 2132, to promote security and provide justice for
United States victims of international terrorism, S. 2511,
to amend title 40, United States Code, to provide the
Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States and
Supreme Court Police with the authority to protect the
Chief Justice of the United States, any Associate Justice
of the Supreme Court, and other individuals in any loca-
tion, and the nominations of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of
Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fifth Circuit, David B. Barlow, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Utah, John Fitzgerald
Kness, to be United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Illinois, R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the Middle District of
Alabama, Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, Justin
Reed Walker, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky, Eleni Maria Roumel, of
Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims, Steven J. Menashi, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Karen Spencer
Marston, to be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Pennsylvania, Richard Earnest Myers II, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina, Anuraag Singhal, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, and
Kenneth Charles Canterbury, Jr., of South Carolina, to be
Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Ex-
plosives, and David M. DeVillers, to be United States At-
torney for the Southern District of Ohio, both of the De-
partment of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 11 a.m., SH–219.
Full Committee, closed business meeting to consider
pending intelligence matters; to be immediately followed
by a closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2
p.m., SH–219.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1075
September 25, 2019
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Conservation
and Forestry, hearing entitled ‘‘The National Forest Sys-
tem: Restoring our Forest Infrastructure’’, 10 a.m., 1300
Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Financial
Services and General Government, hearing entitled ‘‘IRS
Oversight: Treasury Inspector General for Tax Adminis-
tration’’, 3 p.m., 2358–A Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Workforce Protections, hearing entitled ‘‘Misclassification
of Employees: Examining the Costs to Workers, Busi-
nesses, and the Economy’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and
Pensions, hearing entitled ‘‘Making Health Care More Af-
fordable: Lowering Drug Prices and Increasing Trans-
parency’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, markup on H.R. 1603,
the ‘‘Alan Reinstein Ban Asbestos Now Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 535, the ‘‘PFAS Action Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2377,
the ‘‘Protect Drinking Water from PFAS Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2533, the ‘‘Providing Financial Assistance for Safe
Drinking Water Act’’; H.R. 2566, a bill to require the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to
revise the Safer Choice Standard to provide for a Safer
Choice label for pots, pans, and cooking utensils that do
not contain PFAS, and for other purposes; H.R. 2570,
the ‘‘PFAS User Fee Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2577, the
‘‘PFAS Right-To-Know Act’’; H.R. 2591, the ‘‘PFAS
Waste Incineration Ban Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2596, the
‘‘Protecting Communities from New PFAS Act’’; H.R.
2600, the ‘‘Toxic PFAS Control Act’’; H.R. 2605, the
‘‘PROTECT Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2608, the ‘‘PFAS Test-
ing Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2626, the ‘‘PFAS Accountability
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2638, a bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Environment Protection Agency to issue
guidance on minimizing the use of firefighting foam con-
taining PFAS, and for other purposes; and H.R. 2699,
the ‘‘Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2019’’,
10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining Legislation to Protect Consumers
and Small Business Owners from Abusive Debt Collection
Practices’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Task Force on Financial Technology, hearing entitled
‘‘The Future of Real-Time Payments’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee; and Full
Committee of the House Committee on Natural Re-
sources, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Sustaining U.S. Pacific In-
sular Relationships’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Nonproliferation Policy and
the FY 2020 Budget’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Emer-
gency Preparedness, Response, and Recovery, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Engaging the Community: Perspectives on School
Security’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Subcommittee on Oversight, Management and Ac-
countability, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of ICE Deten-
tion Facilities: Is DHS Doing Enough?’’, 2 p.m., 310
Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Immigra-
tion and Citizenship, hearing entitled ‘‘The Expansion
and Troubling Use of ICE Detention’’, 10:30 a.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the
Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘The Federal Judiciary in the
21st Century: Ensuring the Public’s Right of Access to
the Courts’’, 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Se-
curity, hearing entitled ‘‘Community Responses to Gun
Violence in our Cities’’, 12 p.m., 2237 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Department of the Interior’s Failure to Co-
operate with Congressional Oversight Requests’’, 2 p.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Understanding, Forecasting, and
Communicating Extreme Weather in a Changing Cli-
mate’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight, hearing
entitled ‘‘Online Imposters and Disinformation’’, 2 p.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘SBA Management Review: Small Business In-
vestment Company Program’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘A Work in
Progress: Implementation of the FAA Reauthorization
Act of 2018’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Tech-
nology Modernization, hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of
VA Scheduling: Implementing a Commercial Off the
Shelf Scheduling Solution at the Department of Veterans
Affairs’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, hearing entitled ‘‘The Public Health Consequences
and Costs of Gun Violence’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Whistleblower Disclosure’’, 9
a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis: Reducing
Industrial Emissions Through U.S. Innovation’’, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Civility and
Building a More Collaborative Congress’’, 10 a.m., 210
Cannon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1076 September 25, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, September 26
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will begin consideration
of H.R. 4378, Continuing Appropriations Act, 2020, and
Health Extenders Act of 2019. At 12:15 p.m., Senate
will vote on or in relation to Paul Amendment No. 942
to H.R. 4378 and passage of the bill.
At 1:30 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nominations of Gen. John E. Hyten for appointment as
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Eugene
Scalia, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Labor.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, September 26
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 3525—
U.S. Border Patrol Medical Screening Standards Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1207
Espaillat, Adriano, N.Y., E1207
Fudge, Marcia L., Ohio, E1206
Herrera Beutler, Jaime, Wash., E1208
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E1205
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E1206
Loudermilk, Barry, Ga., E1206
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E1206
McAdams, Ben, Utah, E1205
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1205
Riggleman, Denver, Va., E1207
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1208
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1207
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E1207
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:29 Sep 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25SE9.REC D25SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
