Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3965
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MAY 20, 2019 No. 84
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CLAY).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 20, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable WM. LACY
CLAY to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair would now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 1
minute p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Almighty God of the universe, we
give You thanks for giving us another
day.
We pray for the gift of wisdom to all
with great responsibility in the peo-
ple’s House for the leadership of our
Nation.
May all the Members have the vision
of a world where respect and under-
standing are the marks of civility, and
honor and integrity are the marks of
one’s character.
Raise up, O God, women and men
from every nation who will lead toward
the paths of peace, and whose good
judgment will heal the hurt between
all peoples.
Bless us this day and every day, and
may all that is done within these hal-
lowed Halls be for Your greater honor
and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. PENCE)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. PENCE led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
CELEBRATING THE CENTENNIAL
ANNIVERSARY OF CUMMINS EN-
GINE COMPANY
(Mr. PENCE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the centennial anniversary
of a company whose name is synony-
mous with my hometown of Columbus,
Indiana. One hundred years ago,
Cummins Engine Company was incor-
porated, charting a course that would
change the world and serve to make In-
diana a manufacturing powerhouse.
Today, with nearly 60,000 employees
worldwide, Cummins remains a global
power leader. From engines to power
systems, components, and advanced
technologies, the power of Cummins
will continue to drive our State, our
Nation, and indeed, the world.
In fact, this year has brought record
sales to Cummins, proving that after
one century, the best is still to come.
On behalf of the people of Indiana’s
Sixth Congressional District, I con-
gratulate Cummins, its incredible lead-
ership, and its devoted employees on
100 years of improving lives by
powering a more prosperous world.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, May 20, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
May 20, 2019, at 9:10 a.m.:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:52 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.000 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3966 May 20, 2019
That the Senate passed S. 744.
That the Senate passed S. 820.
That the Senate passed S. 998.
That the Senate passed S. 1379.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 4 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1602
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 4 o’clock and 2
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
GLOBAL FRAGILITY ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2116) to enhance stabilization of
conflict-affected areas and prevent vio-
lence and fragility globally, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2116
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Global Fra-
gility Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) According to the United Nations, an un-
precedented 68.5 million people around the
world, the highest level ever recorded, are
currently forcibly displaced from their
homes.
(2) According to the World Bank, violence
and violent conflict are now the leading
causes of displacement and food insecurity
worldwide, driving 80 percent of humani-
tarian needs, with the same conflicts ac-
counting for the majority of forcibly dis-
placed persons every year since 1991.
(3) According to the Institute for Econom-
ics and Peace, violence containment costs
the global economy $14.76 trillion a year, or
12.4 percent of the world’s GDP.
(4) Violence and violent conflict underpin
many of the United States Government’s key
national security challenges. Notably, vio-
lent conflicts allow for environments in
which terrorist organizations recruit and
thrive, while the combination of violence,
corruption, poverty, poor governance, and
underdevelopment often enables
transnational gangs and criminal networks
to wreak havoc and commit atrocities world-
wide.
(5) According to research by the University
of Maryland and University of Pittsburgh,
exposure to violence increases support for vi-
olence and violent extremism. Research in-
creasingly finds exposure to violence as a
predictor of future participation in violence,
including violent extremism.
(6) United States foreign policy and assist-
ance efforts in highly violent and fragile
states remain governed by an outdated
patchwork of authorities that prioritize re-
sponding to immediate needs rather than
solving the problems that cause them.
(7) Lessons learned over the past 20 years,
documented by the 2013 Special Inspector
General for Iraq Reconstruction Lessons
Learned Study, the 2016 Fragility Study
Group report, and the 2018 Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Lessons Learned
Study on Stabilization, show that effective,
sustained United States efforts to reduce vi-
olence and stabilize fragile and violence-af-
fected states require clearly defined goals
and strategies, adequate long-term funding,
rigorous and iterative conflict analysis, co-
ordination across the United States Govern-
ment, including strong civil-military coordi-
nation, attention to the problem of corrup-
tion, and integration with and leadership
from national and sub-national partners, in-
cluding local civil society organizations, tra-
ditional justice systems, and local govern-
ance structures.
(8) The ‘‘Stabilization Assistance Review’’
released in 2018 by the Departments of State
and Defense and the United States Agency
for International Development states, ‘‘The
United States has strong national security
and economic interests in reducing levels of
violence and promoting stability in areas af-
fected by armed conflict.’’. The Review fur-
ther states, ‘‘Stabilization is an inherently
political endeavor that requires aligning
U.S. Government efforts—diplomatic engage-
ment, foreign assistance, and defense—to-
ward supporting locally legitimate authori-
ties and systems to peaceably manage con-
flict and prevent violence.’’.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States to—
(1) ensure that all relevant Federal depart-
ments and agencies coordinate to achieve co-
herent, long-term goals for programs de-
signed to stabilize conflict-affected areas and
prevent violence and fragility globally, in-
cluding when implementing the Global Fra-
gility Initiative established pursuant to sec-
tion 6;
(2) seek to improve global, regional, and
local coordination of relevant international
and multilateral development and donor or-
ganizations regarding efforts to stabilize
conflict-affected areas and prevent violence
and fragility globally, and, where practicable
and appropriate, align such efforts with mul-
tilateral goals and indicators;
(3) expand and enhance the effectiveness of
United States foreign assistance programs
and activities to stabilize conflict-affected
areas and prevent violence and fragility
globally;
(4) support the research and development
of effective approaches to stabilize conflict-
affected areas and prevent violence and fra-
gility globally, and data collection efforts
relevant to such approaches; and
(5) improve the tools and authorities for
assessment, monitoring, and evaluation
needed to enable learning and adaptation by
such relevant Federal departments and agen-
cies working to stabilize conflict-affected
areas and prevent violence and fragility
globally.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) STABILIZATION AND PREVENTION FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States a fund
to be known as the ‘‘Stabilization and Pre-
vention Fund’’ (in this subsection referred to
as the ‘‘Fund’’), to be administered by the
Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development
(USAID), and consisting of amounts author-
ized to be appropriated pursuant to para-
graph (2).
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Fund $200,000,000 for each of the five fiscal
years beginning with the first fiscal year
that begins after the date of the enactment
of this Act. Amounts authorized to be appro-
priated pursuant to this paragraph are au-
thorized to remain available until expended.
(3) PURPOSES OF THE FUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts authorized to be
appropriated to the Fund shall be used for
economic and development assistance for
any of the following:
(i) To support stabilization of conflict-af-
fected areas and prevent violence and fra-
gility globally, including through the Global
Fragility Initiative established pursuant to
section 6.
(ii) To provide assistance to areas liberated
or at risk from, or under the control of, the
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, other ter-
rorist organizations, or violent extremist or-
ganizations, including for stabilization as-
sistance for vulnerable ethnic and religious
minority communities affected by conflict.
(B) ADDITION.—Amounts authorized to be
appropriated to the Fund are in addition to
any amounts otherwise made available for
the purposes described in subparagraph (A).
(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—Not later
than 15 days before amounts from the Fund
are obligated, the Secretary of State or Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development shall submit no-
tification of such obligation to—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives;
(B) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate.
(b) COMPLEX CRISES FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States a fund
to be known as the ‘‘Complex Crises Fund’’
(in this subsection referred to as the
‘‘Fund’’), to be administered by USAID.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Fund $30,000,000 for each of the five fiscal
years beginning with the first fiscal year
that begins after the date of the enactment
of this Act. Amounts authorized to be appro-
priated pursuant to this paragraph are au-
thorized to remain available until expended.
(3) PURPOSES OF THE FUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, except section 620M of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2378d), amounts in the Fund may be used to
carry out the provisions of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) to
support programs and activities to prevent
or respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign
challenges and complex crises overseas, in-
cluding through the Global Fragility Initia-
tive established pursuant to section 6.
(B) ADDITION.—Amounts authorized to be
appropriated to the Fund are in addition to
any amounts otherwise made available for
the purposes described in subparagraph (A).
(4) LIMITATIONS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:52 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.002 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3967
May 20, 2019
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Fund
may not be expended for lethal assistance or
to respond to natural disasters.
(B) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Not more
than five percent of amounts in the Fund
may be used for administrative expenses.
(5) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—Not later
than five days before amounts from the Fund
are obligated, the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment shall submit notification of such
obligation to—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
(6) WAIVER.—Notification in accordance
with paragraph (5) may be waived if—
(A) notification by the deadline specified
in such paragraph would pose a substantial
risk to human health or welfare; and
(B) the congressional committees specified
in such paragraph—
(i) are notified not later than three days
after an obligation of amounts from the
Fund; and
(ii) are provided with an explanation of the
emergency circumstances that necessitated
such waiver.
(c) OTHER FUNDING AND COST MATCHING.—
The Global Fragility Initiative established
pursuant to section 6—
(1) may be supported by funds other than
funds authorized to be appropriated pursuant
to this section; and
(2) shall seek to leverage funds from
sources other than the United States Gov-
ernment in order to promote coordination
and cost-matching to the maximum extent
practicable.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ASSIST-
ANCE FOR THE GLOBAL FRAGILITY
INITIATIVE.
It is the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent, the Secretary of State, the Adminis-
trator of USAID, the Secretary of Defense,
and the heads of other relevant Federal de-
partments and agencies should work with
the appropriate congressional committees to
provide sufficient types and levels of funding
to—
(1) allow for more adaptive and responsive
policy and program planning, implementa-
tion, and scaling under the Global Fragility
Initiative established pursuant to section 6,
including through more flexible funding
mechanisms and exemptions from specific
and minimum funding levels when such ex-
emptions would make such programs better
able to respond to local needs, the results of
monitoring and evaluation, or changed cir-
cumstances in relevant countries;
(2) better integrate the initiative and other
conflict and violence reduction objectives
and activities into other policy and program
areas, where appropriate; and
(3) support transparent and accountable
multilateral funds, initiatives, and strate-
gies to enhance and better coordinate both
private and public efforts to stabilize con-
flict-affected areas and prevent violence and
fragility globally.
SEC. 6. GLOBAL FRAGILITY INITIATIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
State, in coordination with the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID), the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Atrocities Prevention
Board (or any successor entity), and the
heads of other relevant Federal departments
and agencies, shall, in accordance with sub-
section (b), establish an interagency initia-
tive, to be referred to as the ‘‘Global Fra-
gility Initiative’’, to stabilize conflict-af-
fected areas and prevent violence and fra-
gility globally.
(2) STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION.—The Glob-
al Fragility Initiative required under this
subsection shall be developed in consultation
with representatives of local civil society
and national and local governance entities,
as well as relevant international develop-
ment organizations with experience imple-
menting programs in fragile and violence-af-
fected communities, multilateral organiza-
tions and donors, and relevant private, aca-
demic, and philanthropic entities, as appro-
priate.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT PLAN.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordina-
tion with the Administrator of USAID, the
Secretary of Defense, the Atrocities Preven-
tion Board (or any successor entity), and the
heads of other relevant Federal departments
and agencies, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees an interagency
plan regarding the establishment of the
Global Fragility Initiative pursuant to sub-
section (a) that includes the following:
(1) Identification of the roles and respon-
sibilities of each participating Federal de-
partment or agency, while ensuring that—
(A) the Department of State is the overall
lead department for establishing United
States foreign policy and advancing diplo-
matic and political efforts;
(B) USAID is the lead implementing agen-
cy for development, humanitarian, and re-
lated non-security program policy;
(C) where appropriate, the Department of
Defense may support the activities of the De-
partment of State and USAID by providing
requisite security and support to civilian ef-
forts with the joint-formulation, coordina-
tion, and concurrence of the Secretary of
State and Administrator of USAID; and
(D) other Federal departments and agen-
cies support the activities of the Department
of State and USAID as appropriate, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of State and
Administrator of USAID.
(2) Identification of which officials of the
Department of State, USAID, and the De-
partment of Defense, with a rank not lower
than Assistant Secretary or Assistant Ad-
ministrator, as the case may be, will be re-
sponsible for overseeing and leading the ini-
tiative.
(3) Identification of the authorities, staff-
ing, and other resource requirements needed
to effectively implement the initiative.
(4) Descriptions of the organizational steps
the Secretary of State, the Administrator,
the Secretary of Defense, and the head of
each other relevant Federal department or
agency will take to improve planning, co-
ordination, implementation, assessment,
monitoring, evaluation, adaptive manage-
ment, and iterative learning with respect to
the programs carried out under the initia-
tive.
(5) Descriptions of the steps the Secretary
of State, the Administrator, the Secretary of
Defense, and the head of each other relevant
Federal department or agency will take to
ensure appropriate host-country ownership
and to improve coordination and collabora-
tion under the initiative with international
development organizations, international do-
nors, multilateral organizations, and the pri-
vate sector.
(6) Descriptions of potential areas of im-
proved public and private sector research
and development, including with academic,
philanthropic, and civil society organiza-
tions, on data collection efforts and more ef-
fective approaches to stabilize conflict-af-
fected areas and prevent violence and fra-
gility globally.
(7) Descriptions of the processes for regu-
larly evaluating and updating the initiative
on an iterative basis, including regarding
priority country and regional plans described
in subsection (d).
(8) A list of priority countries and regions
selected pursuant to subsection (c), including
descriptions of the rationale for such selec-
tions.
(c) SELECTION OF PRIORITY COUNTRIES AND
REGIONS.—The Secretary of State, in coordi-
nation with the Administrator of USAID and
the Secretary of Defense, and in consultation
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees, shall select certain countries as ‘‘pri-
ority countries’’ and certain regions as ‘‘pri-
ority regions’’ for the Global Fragility Ini-
tiative—
(1) on the basis of—
(A) clearly defined indicators of the levels
of violence or fragility in such country or re-
gion, such as the country or region’s—
(i) ranking on recognized global fragility
lists, such as the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development States of
Fragility report, the Fund for Peace Fragile
States Index, the World Bank Harmonized
List of Fragile Situations, the Institute for
Economics and Peace Global Peace Index,
and Holocaust Museum Early Warning
Project Risk Assessment;
(ii) ranking on select United States Gov-
ernment conflict and atrocity early warning
watch lists; and
(iii) levels of violence, such as violence
committed by armed groups, violent extrem-
ist organizations, gender-based violence, and
violence against children and youth; and
(B) an assessment of—
(i) the capacity and commitment of na-
tional and sub-national government entities
and civil society partners in such country or
region to work with Federal departments
and agencies on the initiative, including by
demonstrating the willingness and making
demonstrable efforts to improve governance,
enhance rule of law, and protect human
rights; and
(ii) the likelihood that selection as a pri-
ority country or priority region would allow
the initiative to measurably stabilize con-
flict-affected areas or prevent violence and
fragility in such country or region; and
(2) in a manner that ensures that—
(A) not fewer than three countries or re-
gions are designated as ‘‘Stabilization Coun-
tries’’ or ‘‘Stabilization Regions’’, as the
case may be, in which current levels of vio-
lence are among the highest in the world;
(B) not fewer than three countries or re-
gions are designated as ‘‘Prevention Coun-
tries’’ or ‘‘Prevention Regions’’, as the case
may be, in which current levels of violence
are lower than such levels in Stabilization
Countries or Stabilization Regions but risk
factors for violence or fragility are signifi-
cant;
(C) countries and regions selected are in
the areas of responsibility of at least three
geographic bureaus of the Department of
State; and
(D) regions, rather than individual coun-
tries, are selected where the threat or spill-
over of violence, conflict, or fragility threat-
ens multiple countries within a single geo-
graphic region.
(d) COUNTRY AND REGIONAL PLANS.—Not
later than one year after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of State,
in coordination with the Administrator of
USAID, the Secretary of Defense, the Atroc-
ities Prevention Board (or any successor en-
tity), and the heads of other relevant Federal
departments and agencies, shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees
ten-year plans to align and integrate under
the Global Fragility Initiative required
under subsection (a) all relevant diplomatic,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:52 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.001 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3968 May 20, 2019
development, security assistance and co-
operation, and other relevant activities of
the United States Government with respect
to each of the countries and regions selected
pursuant to subsection (c). Each such coun-
try and regional plan shall include the fol-
lowing:
(1) Specific multi-year interagency plans
for coordination and implementation under
each such plan.
(2) An up-to-date baseline analysis for each
such country or region, including an analysis
of political dynamics, impacts of violence,
and conditions that contribute to violence
and fragility.
(3) Prioritized descriptions of the goals and
objectives for stabilizing conflict-affected
areas and preventing violence and fragility
in each such country or region.
(4) Descriptions of how and when the rel-
evant goals, objectives, plans, and bench-
marks for each such country or region will
be incorporated into relevant United States
country plans and strategies, including De-
partment of State Integrated Country Strat-
egies, USAID Country Development Coopera-
tion Strategies, and Department of Defense
Campaign Plans, Operational Plans, and Re-
gional Strategies, as well as any equivalent
or successor plans or strategies.
(5) Interagency plans to ensure that appro-
priate local actors, including government
and civil society entities and organizations
led by women, youth, or under-represented
communities, have an appropriate ownership
stake in developing, implementing, assess-
ing, monitoring, evaluating, and updating
relevant activities under each such plan.
(6) Interagency plans to integrate existing
and planned security assistance and coopera-
tion programs in each such country or region
with the initiative and to maximize positive
outcomes and mitigate risks associated with
such programs, including risks related to
corruption, governance, and human rights.
(7) Assessment, monitoring, and evaluation
frameworks for diplomatic, development,
and security activities, which shall be in-
formed by consultations with the stake-
holders specified in subsection (a)(2), with
clear, date-certain metrics for each such
country or region, as well as interagency
plans for using such frameworks to adapt
such activities on a regular and iterative
basis.
(8) Descriptions of available policy tools
and how such tools will be used to stabilize
conflict-affected areas or prevent violence
and fragility in each such country or region.
(9) A description of how planning and im-
plementation for each such country or re-
gion will be coordinated to ensure such plan-
ning and implementation are conducted in
partnership between the United States Gov-
ernment and—
(A) governments of such countries;
(B) international development organiza-
tions;
(C) relevant international donors;
(D) multilateral organizations; and
(E) the private sector.
(10) A regional component outlining plans
to address relevant transnational issues in
cases in which an individual country is se-
lected and such country is affected by or at
risk of regional fragility or violence.
(11) A component outlining plans to ad-
dress national-level factors at the individual
country level in cases in which a region is se-
lected and such region is affected by or at
risk of fragility or violence as a result of
such national-level factors.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of
State, in coordination with the Adminis-
trator of USAID, the Secretary of Defense,
and the heads of other relevant Federal de-
partments and agencies, and in consultation
with the Atrocities Prevention Board (or any
successor entity), relevant United States
ambassadors, USAID mission directors, geo-
graphic combatant commanders, and other
relevant individuals with responsibility over
activities in each priority country or region
selected pursuant to subsection (c), shall en-
sure that—
(1) the Global Fragility Initiative required
under subsection (a), including each of the
country and regional plans under subsection
(d), is implemented, updated, and coordi-
nated on a regular and iterative basis; and
(2) such initiative is used to guide United
States Government policy at a senior level
and incorporated into relevant strategies
and plans across the United States Govern-
ment such that the activities of all Federal
departments and agencies are consistent
with such initiative.
SEC. 7. BIENNIAL REPORTS AND CONGRES-
SIONAL CONSULTATION.
(a) BIENNIAL REPORTS.—Not later than two
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act and every two years thereafter until the
date that is ten years after such date of en-
actment, the Secretary of State, in coordina-
tion with the Administrator of USAID, the
Secretary of Defense, the Atrocities Preven-
tion Board (or any successor entity), and the
heads of other relevant Federal departments
and agencies, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees an unclassified re-
port, which may include a classified annex,
on progress made and lessons learned with
respect to the Global Fragility Initiative es-
tablished pursuant to section 6, including
each country and regional plan required as
part of such initiative, including the fol-
lowing:
(1) Descriptions of steps taken to incor-
porate the initiative and such country and
regional plans into relevant strategies and
plans that affect such countries and regions.
(2) Accountings of all funding received and
obligated to implement each such country
and regional plan during the previous two
years, as well as funding requested, planned,
and projected for the following two years.
(3) Descriptions of progress made towards
the goals and objectives established for each
such country and region, including progress
made towards achieving specific targets,
metrics, and indicators.
(4) Descriptions of updates made during the
previous two years to the goals, objectives,
plans of action, and other elements described
in each such country and regional plan, as
well as any changes made to programs based
on the results of assessment, monitoring,
and evaluation.
(b) CONGRESSIONAL CONSULTATION.—The
Secretary of State, the Administrator of
USAID, and the Secretary of Defense shall
provide to any appropriate congressional
committee upon the request of any such
committee regular briefings on the imple-
mentation of this Act.
SEC. 8. GAO REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than two years
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and every two years thereafter until the date
that is ten years after such date of enact-
ment, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall consult with the Chairman and
Ranking Member of the Committee on For-
eign Relations of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives regarding opportunities for
independent review of the activities under
the Global Fragility Initiative established
pursuant to section 6, including opportuni-
ties to—
(1) assess the extent to which United
States Government activities in each coun-
try and region selected as part of the initia-
tive are being implemented in accordance
with the initiative and the relevant country
or regional plan under the initiative;
(2) assess the processes and procedures for
coordinating among and within each rel-
evant Federal department or agency when
implementing the initiative and each such
country and regional plan;
(3) assess the monitoring and evaluation
efforts under the initiative and each such
country and regional plan, including assess-
ments of the progress made and lessons
learned with respect to each such plan, as
well as any changes made to activities based
on the results of such monitoring and eval-
uation;
(4) recommend changes necessary to better
implement United States Government ac-
tivities in accordance with the initiative, as
well as recommendations for any changes to
the initiative; and
(5) assess such other matters as the Comp-
troller General determines appropriate.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—The
heads of all relevant Federal departments
and agencies shall ensure that all relevant
data, documents, and other information is
made available to the Comptroller General
of the United States for purposes of con-
ducting independent reviews pursuant to this
section.
SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committees on Foreign Relations,
Armed Services, and Appropriations of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committees on Foreign Affairs,
Armed Services, and Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(2) RELEVANT FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OR
AGENCY.—The term ‘‘relevant Federal de-
partment or agency’’ means the Department
of the Treasury and any other Federal de-
partment or agency the President deter-
mines is relevant to carry out the purposes
of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 2116.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, on the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, we focus a great deal
on the importance of diplomacy and de-
velopment as pillars of American for-
eign policy. The reason why we to do
this is simple: diplomacy and develop-
ment advance our interests and values
in a way that saves lives, that prevents
war, that stops crises before they start,
and helps stabilize countries where
conflicts have occurred.
These efforts strengthen old friend-
ships and build new bridges of under-
standing with people and cultures and
governments throughout the world.
We will always need a strong mili-
tary, but sending our servicemembers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:52 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.001 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3969
May 20, 2019
into harm’s way should, likewise, al-
ways be a measure of last resort. So, on
our committee, we look for ways to
make our diplomacy and development
more effective. We try to give our dip-
lomats and development experts the
tools and resources they need to carry
out their critical work.
Today, the House is taking up six
bills aimed at doing just that. The first
is a bill of mine that I am glad is mov-
ing forward.
Let me thank our ranking member,
my friend, Mr. MCCAUL of Texas, for
joining as a cosponsor. This legislation
gets at the heart of what we want to
see from our diplomatic and develop-
ment efforts around the world: helping
places already torn apart by violence
to recover and preventing the start of
violence in other places where factors
are ripe for its outbreak.
Over the past two decades, we have
learned a great deal about what drives
violence and instability in what are
called fragile states. We know that it
takes clearly defined goals and strate-
gies. We know that it takes strong,
sustained investment over the long
term. We know that it takes serious re-
search and analysis. And we know that
it takes agencies across government
working together toward the same
goals.
This bill takes all that knowledge
and establishes an overarching policy
framework for the United States Gov-
ernment. It will help ensure that our
government is working in lockstep to
prevent violence and extremism and
that we are working closely with civil
society groups to assess internal and
external drivers of instability, to im-
plement these initiatives on the
ground, and to constantly monitor and
evaluate the work.
This bill takes into account the fact
that no two countries are alike. Some
will be willing partners in this work;
others will require more rigorous en-
gagement to get them on board. For
this reason, the bill requires the selec-
tion of priority countries and regions
based on a number of indicators, such
as the challenges at hand and the com-
mitments of respective governments.
The bill also establishes and author-
izes the Stabilization and Prevention
Fund and authorizes the Complex Cri-
ses Fund for the next 5 years, impor-
tant steps in making sure this initia-
tive has the resources needed for suc-
cess.
This bill will make a real difference
in the lives of some of the world’s most
vulnerable people and communities,
and it will do so in a way that serves
U.S. interests.
The United States must get ahead of
the extremist threat if we want to en-
sure our own security. This bill helps
us to do just that. I ask for the support
of all Members to pass this legislation.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Global Fragility Act. I want
to thank my good friend, Chairman
ENGEL, for introducing this bill. I am
proud to be the lead Republican on this
vital bipartisan legislation.
Violent conflict costs the global
economy more than $14 trillion every
year, killing tens of thousands of peo-
ple and displacing millions from their
homes. In the past, the United States
has been investing billions of dollars to
stabilize fragile states and conflict
areas, often with little to show for it.
We are successful militarily. For ex-
ample, we have destroyed the so-called
caliphate in Iraq and Syria. But as
former Secretary of Defense James
Mattis once said: ‘‘The more that we
put into the State Department’s diplo-
macy, hopefully, the less we have to
put into a military budget as we deal
with the outcome. . . . ‘’
Simply put, we need to be more effec-
tive in helping to prevent conflicts be-
fore they erupt. That is what this bill
is designed to do.
Weak governance, corruption, and ex-
treme poverty fuel instability. Jihadi
groups prey on these conditions and
plague key parts of the world with
their violence and oppression. Fragile
states provide fertile recruiting ground
for these terrorists and, also,
transnational criminal organizations.
Sadly, we are seeing jihadists expand
in the Sahel region of Africa. Violent
attacks linked to terror groups have
doubled every year since 2016.
When I was in Africa last month, I
heard tragic stories of this growing
threat. I am glad that we are taking
action here today to help bring sta-
bility to this vital region by passing
the Global Fragility Act.
Our bill requires the administration
to launch a new initiative to coordi-
nate our assistance in fragile states.
This will ensure that the United States
takes a whole-of-government approach
to preventing violent conflict rather
than individual agencies funding piece-
meal, uncoordinated activities.
The bill requires the State Depart-
ment to coordinate with USAID, the
Department of Defense, and other
agencies in standing up a pilot program
in a select number of countries. It also
ensures consistent future funding in
order to take a long-term approach to
our programs and objectives in those
key selected locations.
Madam Speaker, we must get this
right. We are seeing unprecedented lev-
els of instability, displacement, and
humanitarian needs around the world
in Syria, Venezuela, Yemen, the Sahel,
South Sudan, and elsewhere. Pre-
venting conflict and violence can save
the U.S. taxpayer dollars and make our
country and the rest of the world safer.
I want to recognize the development
community and NGOs, like the ONE
Campaign, for the important work that
they have done on this critical humani-
tarian and national security issue.
They have been extremely supportive
of this bill, and I look forward to work-
ing with them to get to final passage.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I would
like to say that we have done a lot of
good things in terms of defending this
Nation. As chairman of Homeland Se-
curity, I think that we stopped prob-
ably 95 percent of the threats that we
saw coming at us.
We have done very good offensively
in our military, defeating and destroy-
ing extremist groups like al-Qaida and
ISIS in Iraq and Syria and the collapse
of the caliphate. But, Madam Speaker,
I think where we have been probably
not as good and where we need to do
better is in prevention and getting at
the root causes of the problems.
Getting to the root cause of the prob-
lems, particularly in Africa, is ex-
tremely important, as the military
tells us the Sahel will be the next ca-
liphate.
We have to pass this bill because it
gets to the root cause. It is the preven-
tion piece that the State Department,
USAID, and the Department of Defense
will work together to stop and prevent
extremism at its core roots, and I be-
lieve it will make the world a safer
place long term.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, the United States
works to prevent and stop violence
when we help to build stronger, more
secure communities around the world;
when we try to make the most vulner-
able regions more stable and pros-
perous, we are improving the lives of
large numbers of people. We are also
advancing our own interests by elimi-
nating the root causes that allow ex-
tremism to fester and drive threats to
our own security.
That is the aim of my bill. That is
the aim of this bill we are considering
today. It is a smart approach to a seri-
ous foreign policy challenge.
The House passed it in the last Con-
gress. I hope the other body will take it
up soon so we can get it to the Presi-
dent’s desk.
Madam Speaker, I again thank the
ranking member, Mr. MCCAUL.
Policies like this should always be
bipartisan. As I always stress, as does
Mr. MCCAUL, we try to work in a bipar-
tisan way on the House Foreign Affairs
Committee because, after all, the work
we are doing is work for all Americans.
It helps all Americans. It helps our
great Nation.
So I again want to thank the ranking
member, Mr. MCCAUL. I ask all Mem-
bers to support this effort, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2116.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:52 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.007 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3970 May 20, 2019
b 1615
REFUGEE SANITATION FACILITY
SAFETY ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 615) to provide women and girls
safe access to sanitation facilities in
refugee camps.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 615
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Refugee
Sanitation Facility Safety Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SECURE ACCESS TO SANITATION FACILI-
TIES FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS.
Section 501 of the Foreign Relations Act,
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 2601
note) is amended in subsection (a)—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (10);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (11) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12) the provision of safe and secure ac-
cess to sanitation facilities, with a special
emphasis on women and girls, and vulnerable
populations.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 615,
the Refugee Sanitation Facility Safety
Act 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, first of all, I want
to thank Ms. MENG and Mr. ZELDIN for
authoring this important bipartisan
measure.
We are facing a devastating refugee
crisis around the world right now. Over
25 million people are currently refugees
having fled from violence, conflict, and
crisis. Many of these people are now
living in refugee camps.
And let me be clear, we need a for-
eign policy that addresses the root
causes of this crisis.
So I am pleased we just considered
my Global Fragility bill, which works
to prevent the kind of conflict and in-
stability that leads to these refugee
crises.
The United States also needs to open
its doors to more of these families who
have fled violence in search of a better
life. America should be leading the
world to help in relocating these dis-
placed people, so they can find new
homes and start anew.
And we need to make sure that when
people are living in refugee camps,
they are cared for and treated with dig-
nity.
Sadly, far too many women and girls
in these camps face danger right now.
Bathrooms and shower facilities have
often become dangerous places with
predators taking advantage of poor
lighting to stage attacks.
After facing the trauma of being
driven from their homes, women and
girls in refugee camps should not have
to worry about being sexually as-
saulted, period.
We need to do what we can to make
sure that refugee camps have safe, ac-
cessible sanitation facilities for every-
one. So I am pleased that we are con-
sidering legislation today that works
to do just that.
Madam Speaker, with H.R. 615, the
State Department, when providing
overseas assistance for refugees, will
seek to ensure safe access to sanitation
facilities, especially for those most
vulnerable.
Madam Speaker, this is a good bipar-
tisan bill. I am proud to support it, and
I urge my colleagues to do the same.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
the Refugee Sanitation Facility Safety
Act.
I want to commend my two col-
leagues from New York, Representa-
tives MENG and ZELDIN, and also Chair-
man ENGEL for the good work on this
bill.
Around the world, conflict and hu-
manitarian disasters are causing un-
precedented levels of displacement in
places like South Sudan, Somalia,
Syria, Nigeria, and Venezuela.
Some of these crises have dragged on
for years and even decades. Genera-
tions of young people are growing up
knowing only life in a refugee camp
where conditions can be dire, and even
dangerous, for women, children, and
other vulnerable populations.
In these situations, things as basic as
lights and locks can make a difference
between safe restrooms and bathing fa-
cilities in dangerous environments
where refugees are vulnerable to sexual
violence and other crimes.
This bill amends the Foreign Rela-
tions Act to ensure support for safe
sanitation facilities for refugees and
displaced persons living in camps
around the world.
The U.S. continues to be the largest
donor to refugees and displaced persons
around the world, and we will continue
to lead, while encouraging other coun-
tries to step up and do more.
In closing, Madam Speaker, the
United States is a leading donor of hu-
manitarian assistance to refugees
around the world. Through the work of
UNHCR and NGO partners, we are sav-
ing millions of lives every day.
This bill does not increase those as-
sistance levels but will help ensure
that our funding is put to effective use
in protecting the safety and dignity of
vulnerable refugees.
Madam Speaker, I want to, again,
thank Chairman ENGEL and Represent-
atives MENG and ZELDIN for their lead-
ership, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, in clos-
ing, let me say that we are facing a ref-
ugee crisis around the world. Wars, vio-
lence, instability—millions of people
have fled their homes in search of safe-
ty.
We need to do what we can to help
these people find new homes and start
anew. And while they are living in tem-
porary refugee camps, we need to make
sure they have the tools to stay safe
and healthy.
The Refugee Sanitation Facility
Safety Act of 2019 provides refugee
women and girls with safe access to
sanitation facilities.
This is one clear, straightforward
way we can help those most vulnerable
people. It is a good, commonsense bill;
I am pleased to support it. And I thank
Mr. MCCAUL as well for his support.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 615.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DIGITAL GLOBAL ACCESS POLICY
ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1359) to promote Internet access
in developing countries and update for-
eign policy toward the Internet, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1359
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Digital
Global Access Policy Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘Digital GAP Act’’.
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to—
(1) encourage the efforts of developing
countries to improve and secure mobile and
fixed access to the Internet in order to cata-
lyze innovation, spur economic growth and
job creation, improve health, education, and
financial services, reduce poverty and gender
inequality, mitigate disasters, and promote
free speech, democracy, and good govern-
ance;
(2) promote build-once policies and ap-
proaches and the multi-stakeholder ap-
proach to Internet governance; and
(3) ensure the effective use of United
States foreign assistance resources toward
that end.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.010 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3971
May 20, 2019
(1) Internet access has been a driver of eco-
nomic activity around the world. Bringing
Internet access to the more than 4,000,000,000
people who do not have it could increase
global economic output by $6,700,000,000,000
and raise 500,000,000 people out of poverty.
(2) The number of Internet users has more
than tripled from 1,000,000,000 to over
3,000,000,000 since 2005, including 2,000,000,000
living in the developing world, yet more than
half of the world’s population remains off-
line, living without the economic and social
benefits of the Internet. By the end of 2016,
over 80 percent of households in the devel-
oped world had Internet access, compared
with just 40 percent of households in devel-
oping countries and just 11 percent in the
world’s least developed countries. Of the
world’s offline population, an estimated 75
percent live in just 20 countries, and rural,
female, elderly, illiterate, and low-income
populations are being left behind.
(3) Studies suggest that women are dis-
proportionately affected by a digital gap in
developing countries, where there are on av-
erage 23 percent fewer women online then
men. Bringing an additional 600,000,000
women online could contribute $13,000,000,000
to $18,000,000,000 to annual GDP across 144 de-
veloping countries.
(4) The United States has been a leader in
promoting access to an open, secure, inter-
operable Internet around the world. Recog-
nizing that support for expanded Internet ac-
cess furthers United States economic and
foreign policy interests, including efforts to
end extreme global poverty and enabling re-
silient, democratic societies, the Depart-
ment of State launched a diplomatic effort
called ‘‘Global Connect’’.
(5) Internet access in developing countries
is hampered, in part, by a lack of infrastruc-
ture and a poor regulatory environment for
investment. Build-once policies and ap-
proaches, which seek to coordinate public
and private sector investments in roads and
other critical infrastructure, can reduce the
number and scale of excavation and con-
struction activities when installing tele-
communications infrastructure in rights-of-
way, thereby reducing installation costs for
high-speed Internet networks and serving as
a development best practice.
SEC. 4. EXPANDING INTERNET ACCESS IN DEVEL-
OPING COUNTRIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BROADBAND.—The term ‘‘broadband’’
means an Internet Protocol-based trans-
mission service that enables users to send
and receive voice, video, data, graphics, or a
combination thereof, using technologies in-
cluding fiber optic, mobile, satellite, and Wi-
Fi.
(3) BROADBAND CONDUIT.—The term
‘‘broadband conduit’’ means a conduit for
fiber optic cables and other connectivity
technologies that support broadband or wire-
less facilities for broadband service.
(4) BUILD-ONCE POLICIES AND APPROACHES.—
The term ‘‘build-once policies and ap-
proaches’’ means policies or practices that
encourage the integration of Internet infra-
structure into traditional infrastructure
projects that minimize the number and scale
of excavation and construction activities
when installing telecommunications infra-
structure in rights-of-way to reduce costs,
such as by laying fiber optic cable simulta-
neously with road construction.
(5) STAKEHOLDERS.—The term ‘‘stake-
holders’’ means the private sector, the public
sector, cooperatives, civil society, the tech-
nical community that develops Internet
technologies, standards, implementation, op-
erations, and applications, and other groups
that are working to increase Internet access
or are impacted by the lack of Internet ac-
cess in their communities.
(b) POLICY.—It is the policy of the United
States to consult, partner, and coordinate
with the governments of foreign countries,
international organizations, regional eco-
nomic communities, businesses, civil soci-
ety, and other stakeholders in a concerted
effort to close the digital gap by increasing
public and private investments in secure
Internet infrastructure and creating condi-
tions for universal Internet access and usage
worldwide by promoting—
(1) first-time access to fixed or mobile
broadband Internet by 2027 for at least
1,500,000,000 people living in urban and rural
areas in developing countries;
(2) Internet deployment and related coordi-
nation, capacity building, and build-once
policies and approaches in developing coun-
tries, including actions to encourage—
(A) standardization of build-once policies
and approaches for the inclusion of
broadband conduit in rights-of-way projects
that are funded, co-funded, or partially fi-
nanced by the United States or any inter-
national organization that includes the
United States as a member, in consultation
with telecommunications providers, unless a
cost-benefit analysis determines that the
cost of such approach outweighs the benefits;
(B) adoption and integration of build-once
policies and approaches into the develop-
ment and investment strategies of national
and local government agencies of developing
countries and donor governments and orga-
nizations that will enhance coordination
with the private sector for road building,
pipe laying, major infrastructure projects,
and development-related construction such
as schools, clinics, and civic buildings;
(C) provision of increased financial support
by international organizations, including
through grants, loans, technical assistance,
and partnerships to expand information and
communications access and Internet
connectivity; and
(D) avoidance of vendors and contractors
likely to be subject to extrajudicial direction
from a foreign government;
(3) policy and regulatory approaches that
promote a competitive market for invest-
ment and innovation in Internet infrastruc-
ture and service to encourage first-time, af-
fordable access to the Internet in developing
countries, including actions to encourage, as
appropriate—
(A) the integration of universal and gen-
der-equitable Internet access and adoption
goals, to be informed by the collection of re-
lated gender disaggregated data and research
on social norms that often limit women’s
and girls’ use of the Internet, into national
development plans and United States Gov-
ernment country-level strategies;
(B) effective, transparent, and efficient
spectrum allocation processes and reforms of
competition laws that may impede the abil-
ity of companies to provide Internet serv-
ices; and
(C) efforts to improve procurement proc-
esses to help attract and incentivize invest-
ment in secure Internet infrastructure;
(4) the removal of tax and regulatory bar-
riers to Internet access, as appropriate;
(5) the use of the Internet to increase eco-
nomic growth and trade, including, as appro-
priate—
(A) policies and strategies to remove re-
strictions to e-commerce, cross-border infor-
mation flows, and competitive marketplaces;
and
(B) entrepreneurship and distance learning
enabled by access to technology;
(6) the use of the Internet to bolster de-
mocracy, government accountability, trans-
parency, gender equity, and human rights,
including through the establishment of poli-
cies, initiatives, and investments that—
(A) support the development of national
broadband plans or information and commu-
nication technologies strategies that are
consistent with fundamental civil and polit-
ical rights, including freedom of expression,
religion, belief, assembly, and association;
(B) expand online access to government in-
formation and services to enhance govern-
ment accountability and service delivery, in-
cluding for areas in which government may
have limited presence; and
(C) support expression of free speech and
enable political organizing and activism in
support of human rights and democracy
through activities that expand access to
independent sources of news and information
and safeguard human rights and funda-
mental freedoms online, in compliance with
international human rights standards;
(7) programs and mechanisms that actively
promote and advance access to and adoption
of Internet and other information and com-
munications technologies by women, people
with disabilities, minorities, low-income and
marginalized groups, and underserved popu-
lations, such as programs that address social
norms and barriers to women’s active par-
ticipation in the digital economy or Internet
policymaking;
(8) mechanisms for public and private fi-
nancing of rural broadband connectivity and
digital inclusion;
(9) public Internet access facilities and Wi-
Fi networks in places such as libraries, gov-
ernment buildings, community centers, and
schools;
(10) the creation and support of research
and educational networks;
(11) cybersecurity, data protection, and
privacy, including international use of the
latest version of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Framework for
Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecu-
rity; and
(12) interagency coordination and coopera-
tion across all executive branch agencies re-
garding the promotion of Internet initiatives
as a part of United States foreign policy.
(c) DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—The Secretary
of State, in coordination with other agen-
cies, multilateral institutions, foreign coun-
tries, and stakeholders, shall advance the
policy articulated in this Act and promote
expanded Internet connectivity worldwide,
as appropriate, by—
(1) encouraging foreign countries to
prioritize secure Internet connectivity in de-
velopment plans;
(2) promoting the formation of region-spe-
cific multi-sector working groups to ensure
technical and regulatory best practices; and
(3) encouraging the development of digital
literacy programs in developing countries.
(d) USAID.—The Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment (USAID) should advance the pol-
icy articulated in this Act and support ex-
panded Internet connectivity worldwide, as
appropriate, by—
(1) supporting efforts to expand secure
Internet infrastructure and improve digital
literacy, and other appropriate measures to
improve Internet connectivity and usage, in
close coordination with the Secretary of
State;
(2) encouraging public and private invest-
ment in Internet infrastructure and services
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.007 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3972 May 20, 2019
of developing countries that takes into con-
sideration the data security and integrity
risks attendant to the products and services
of vendors likely to be subject to
extrajudicial direction from a foreign gov-
ernment;
(3) integrating efforts to expand Internet
access, develop appropriate, sustainable, and
equitable technologies, and enhance digital
literacy and the availability of relevant
local content across development sectors,
such as USAID health, education, agri-
culture, and economic development pro-
grams;
(4) expanding the utilization of informa-
tion and communications technologies in hu-
manitarian aid and disaster relief responses
and United States operations involving re-
construction and stabilization to improve
donor coordination, reduce duplication and
waste, capture and share lessons learned, and
augment disaster preparedness and risk miti-
gation strategies;
(5) establishing and promoting guidelines
for the protection of personal information of
individuals served by humanitarian, disaster,
and development programs directly through
the United States Government, and through
contracts funded by the United States Gov-
ernment and by international organizations;
and
(6) establishing programs that directly ad-
dress and seek to close gaps in access, adop-
tion, and use of the Internet and other infor-
mation and communications technologies by
women, minorities, and other marginalized
groups.
(e) PEACE CORPS.—Section 3 of the Peace
Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2502) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (h) as sub-
section (e); and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) It is the sense of Congress that access
to the Internet can transform agriculture,
community economic development, edu-
cation, environment, health, and youth de-
velopment, which are the sectors in which
Peace Corps develops positions for volun-
teers.
‘‘(g) In giving attention to the programs,
projects, training, and other activities re-
ferred to in subsection (f), the Peace Corps
should develop positions for volunteers that
include leveraging the Internet, as appro-
priate, for development, education, and so-
cial and economic mobility.’’.
(f) LEVERAGING INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.—
In pursuing the policy described in this Act,
the President should direct United States
representatives to appropriate international
bodies to use the influence of the United
States, consistent with the broad develop-
ment goals of the United States, to advocate
that each such body—
(1) commit to increase efforts and coordi-
nation to promote affordable, open, and gen-
der-equitable Internet access, in partnership
with stakeholders and consistent with host
countries’ absorptive capacity;
(2) integrate affordable and gender-equi-
table Internet access data into existing eco-
nomic and business assessments, evalua-
tions, and indexes such as the Millennium
Challenge Corporation constraints analysis,
the Doing Business reports, International
Monetary Fund Article IV assessments and
country reports, and the Affordability Driv-
ers Index;
(3) standardize the inclusion of broadband
conduit as part of highway or comparable
construction projects in developing coun-
tries, in consultation with telecommuni-
cations providers, unless—
(A) such inclusion would create an undue
burden;
(B) such inclusion is not necessary based
on the availability of existing broadband in-
frastructure;
(C) such inclusion would require the incor-
poration of the hardware, software, or main-
tenance of vendors likely to be subject to
extrajudicial direction from a foreign gov-
ernment; or
(D) a cost-benefit analysis determines that
the cost of such inclusion outweighs the ben-
efits;
(4) provide technical assistance to the reg-
ulatory authorities in developing countries
to remove unnecessary barriers to invest-
ment and develop regulations to support
market growth and development;
(5) utilize clear, accountable, and metric-
based targets, including targets with gender-
disaggregated data, to measure the effective-
ness of efforts to promote Internet access;
and
(6) promote and protect human rights on-
line, such as the freedoms of expression, reli-
gion, belief, assembly, and association,
through resolutions, public statements,
projects, and initiatives, and advocating that
member states of such bodies are held ac-
countable for violations.
(g) REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON IMPLEMEN-
TATION EFFORTS.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report on
efforts to implement the policy described in
this Act and, to the extent practicable, de-
scribe efforts by the United States Govern-
ment to—
(1) provide technical and regulatory assist-
ance to promote Internet access in devel-
oping countries;
(2) strengthen and support development of
regulations that incentivize market growth
that contributes to increased Internet access
in developing countries;
(3) encourage public and private invest-
ment in Internet infrastructure, including
broadband networks and services, in devel-
oping countries;
(4) increase gender-equitable Internet ac-
cess and close gender gaps in Internet and
other information and communications tech-
nology adoption and use, especially in coun-
tries in which social norms limit such adop-
tion and use by women and girls, and other-
wise encourage or support Internet deploy-
ment, competition, and adoption; and
(5) conduct outreach and explore partner-
ship opportunities with the private sector on
activities that advance the policy described
in this Act.
SEC. 5. COST LIMITATION.
No additional funds are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out the provisions of
this Act.
SEC. 6. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act may be construed to
infringe upon the related functions of any
Executive agency (as defined in section 105 of
title 5, United States Code) vested in such
agency under any other provision of law.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1359.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, when we talk about
our development efforts around the
world, we often focus on very big con-
cepts, promoting democracy and
human rights, making governments
more open and accountable, expanding
economic opportunity.
Those are, of course, very important
ideas, and we need to keep those big-
picture goals in mind. But we also need
to be working constantly to develop
the specific day-to-day tools and ef-
forts that will help us advance towards
those goals.
In the 21st century, a lot of those
tools have to do with technology.
Think of the way the internet has
changed the global economy; the way
technology has improved communica-
tion; the sharing of information; the
ability of people to participate in
worldwide markets and conversations.
Now, think of the fact that 4 billion
people around the developing world do
not have access to the internet; think
of the untapped potential, the number
of people who cannot participate in a
constantly expanding online market-
place of goods and services and ideas.
The number of people with stories to
tell, whether they are about life in re-
mote communities or the corruption of
a repressive government, but who can-
not get their hands on the modern-day
tools we use to communicate with one
another; the number of people who can-
not get information about a new oppor-
tunity or an impending disaster be-
cause they don’t have a laptop or a
smart phone.
As technology continues to rush for-
ward in so many aspects of modern life,
unfortunately, far too many people are
being left behind. This bill aims to help
close that so-called digital gap.
This legislation would push the State
Department, USAID, the Peace Corps,
and American representatives in inter-
national bodies to incorporate internet
access into development planning.
There are a number of ways we want
to do this:
Through diplomacy, advising other
governments to prioritize this issue;
through development, by incorporating
this priority into our work on the
ground, especially with respect to
women, minorities, and other
marginalized groups; and in the inter-
national and multilateral groups con-
ducting assessments and evaluations of
development progress, we want to see
access to the internet as an important
goal and metric.
This legislation builds on our coun-
try’s longstanding leadership role in
this area.
Let’s not forget, the United States
created and advanced the internet in
the first place, and Congress has been
working on this for decades, starting
with the High Performance Computing
Act of 1991, which is credited for help-
ing create the first internet browser.
It is an important legacy to build on.
And it coincides with an important for-
eign policy goal.
So I want to thank Mr. WRIGHT of
Texas, this bill’s author, along with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.007 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3973
May 20, 2019
Ranking Member MCCAUL and Rep-
resentatives LIEU and BERA, two able
members of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee for their hard work.
I am glad to support this measure,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Digital GAP Act of 2019,
which I was proud to introduce with
Ranking Member MCCAUL and Rep-
resentatives LIEU and BERA.
In our increasingly connected world,
internet access is a tremendous driver
of economic growth. But 60 percent of
the world’s population remains offline
and out of reach of U.S. businesses, or-
ganizations, and educators—largely
due to a lack of telecommunications
infrastructure.
The Digital GAP Act will promote
commonsense ‘‘build once’’ policies to
help ensure that companies have oppor-
tunities to incorporate telecommuni-
cations into new infrastructure con-
struction projects.
This will provide opportunities to the
private sector and reduce the cost of
bringing new communities online.
The bill also presses for the removal
of onerous tax and regulatory barriers
to Internet access, and calls on the
State Department, USAID, and other
government agencies, to partner with
businesses to increase private invest-
ment in internet infrastructure in de-
veloping countries.
As we compete overseas with an in-
creasingly aggressive China, we must
make America’s assistance and devel-
opment strategies more effective.
Bills like the Digital GAP Act and
the Championing American Business
through Diplomacy Act, which passed 2
weeks ago, will do just that by
strengthening the United States part-
nership with the private sector.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, the
internet is an incredible tool that has
shaped the world in the last genera-
tion.
It allows entrepreneurs in emerging
markets to sell their products in global
markets. It allows citizens and journal-
ists living under oppressive regimes or
in war zones to get information out to
the world.
This bill will establish that our for-
eign policy is to help advance these
positive developments.
I urge its passage. It passed the
House in the last Congress, and I hope
the other body will take it up soon.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1359.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1630
INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTION
INFORMATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 1952) to amend
the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000
to require the Secretary of State to re-
port on intercountry adoptions from
countries which have significantly re-
duced adoption rates involving immi-
gration to the United States, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1952
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Inter-
country Adoption Information Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE IN-
CLUDED IN ANNUAL REPORT ON
INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTIONS.
(a) REPORT ELEMENTS.—Section 104(b) of
the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 (42
U.S.C. 14914(b)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new paragraphs:
‘‘(9) A list of countries that established or
maintained a significant law or regulation
that prevented or prohibited adoptions in-
volving immigration to the United States,
regardless of whether such adoptions oc-
curred under the Convention.
‘‘(10) For each country listed under para-
graph (9), the date on which the law or regu-
lation was initially implemented.
‘‘(11) Information on efforts taken with re-
spect to a country listed under paragraph (9)
to encourage the resumption of halted or
stalled adoption proceedings involving immi-
gration to the United States, regardless of
whether the adoptions would have occurred
under the Convention.
‘‘(12) Information on any action the Sec-
retary carried out that prevented, prohib-
ited, or halted any adoptions involving im-
migration to the United States, regardless of
whether the adoptions occurred under the
Convention.
‘‘(13) For each country listed pursuant to
paragraph (12), a description of—
‘‘(A) what policies, procedures, resources,
and safeguards the country lacks, or other
shortcomings or circumstances, that caused
the action to be carried out;
‘‘(B) what progress the country has made
to alleviate those shortcomings; and
‘‘(C) what steps the Department of State
has taken in order to assist the country to
reopen intercountry adoptions.
‘‘(14) An assessment of the impact of the
fee schedule of the Intercountry Adoption
Accreditation and Maintenance Entity on
families seeking to adopt internationally, es-
pecially low-income families, families seek-
ing to adopt sibling groups, or families seek-
ing to adopt children with disabilities.’’.
(b) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF REPORT.—Sec-
tion 104 of the Intercountry Adoption Act of
2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF REPORT.—The
Secretary shall make the information con-
tained in the report required under sub-
section (a) available to the public on the
website of the Department of State.’’.
(c) PRIVACY CONCERNS.—In complying with
the amendments made by subsections (a) and
(b), the Secretary shall avoid, to the max-
imum extent practicable, disclosing any per-
sonally identifiable information relating to
United States citizens or the adoptees of
such citizens.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
104(a) of the Intercountry Adoption Act of
2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914(a)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘International Relations’’ and inserting
‘‘Foreign Affairs’’.
(e) APPLICATION DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to reports required to be submitted under
section 104 of the Intercountry Adoption Act
of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914) beginning on the date
that is 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. CASTRO) and the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT) each will con-
trol 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CASTRO).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1952,
as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
First of all, I thank Mr. COLLINS and
Mr. LANGEVIN for their hard work on
this bill that would help ease some of
the problems parents face when they
are trying to adopt children from other
countries.
Madam Speaker, the process of
adopting a child is a tough one, espe-
cially when that child is overseas. It is
expensive and often emotionally taxing
for the parents. It is filled with legal
twists and turns and often difficult re-
quirements, but it is worth it for these
loving parents who want to give chil-
dren from faraway places a home and
the chance to be part of a family and a
good future.
What can make this process even
more daunting is when foreign govern-
ments change their laws without any
sort of notice or explanation. For par-
ents who have to deal with this, it is
like having the rug pulled out from
under them.
In 2018, the number of intercountry
adoptions to the United States declined
by roughly 600. We saw a similar de-
cline the year before. Part of the rea-
son is that China and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo changed their
policies, for example.
I can’t imagine the frustration and
anxiety of parents who learned their
adoption has been delayed or derailed.
This bill helps to make things easier on
those families.
It would require the State Depart-
ment to stay up to date on laws and
policies dealing with intercountry
adoptions and make sure American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.013 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3974 May 20, 2019
families get that information. This will
make the adoption process safer and
more transparent for both parents and
children.
This is a good bill. It passed the
House last Congress. After we pass it
again today, I hope the other body, the
Senate, will act quickly as well to pass
it.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Intercountry Adoption In-
formation Act authored by my friend
from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS).
The world today is full of orphaned
children, but it is also full of loving
families who are ready and eager to
adopt them. All too often, American
families encounter policy obstacles
that delay and prevent those adop-
tions. Some countries have halted
adoption processing, suspended foreign
adoptions, or banned adoption alto-
gether.
This information doesn’t always
make it across the world to waiting
American families. Many times, they
are already midway through the dif-
ficult adoption process when these pol-
icy changes occur.
Without full information, they can-
not understand the impact on their
own cases. This leaves adoptive parents
in wrenching situations, separated
from their child and unsure how to pro-
ceed.
This bill ensures that American fami-
lies are not left in the dark by requir-
ing the State Department to publicly
report on legal and policy changes
other countries make that may impact
the adoption process. It also requires
the State Department to explain its ef-
forts to resume stalled adoption pro-
ceedings so that American parents
know what their country is doing to
successfully bring their children to
their new home.
As a father of three, I can say that
there is no greater feeling than being a
dad. I know other parents in this
Chamber feel the same way. This bill is
an opportunity for both parties to
come together to do something positive
for American families.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, we hear far too
many gut-wrenching stories about
American families who have trouble
adopting children overseas. This legis-
lation will help make that easier, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS), the lead Repub-
lican on the Judiciary Committee and
the author of this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I appreciate the two gentle-
men from Texas, and I appreciate the
kind words so far on this bill.
This is something, Madam Speaker,
that we can definitely rise in support
of, and I appreciate the kind words
that have been spoken so far.
I rise in support my legislation, H.R.
1952, the Intercountry Adoption Infor-
mation Act. This legislation is a crit-
ical step forward in ensuring American
families have access to the information
they need to pursue adoptions from a
foreign country.
American families hoping to adopt
internationally face many obstacles on
the road to being united with their
adoptive children. Too often, these
challenges require parents to navigate
confusing and complicated foreign
adoption practices.
I have witnessed firsthand how fami-
lies in my home State of Georgia have
struggled to navigate shifting adoption
policies and changing international
standards.
In 2012, Pam and Mark Romano, a
family in northwest Georgia, traveled
to Russia in hopes of adopting a young
boy named Bogdon. This was not a
quick decision, but one that required
months and months of thoughtful pray-
er and family discussion.
While overseas, the Romanos discov-
ered that Bogdon had a brother, Yura.
Although the boys were living sepa-
rately, the family immediately felt a
calling to welcome both boys into their
home, and they began the process of
adopting Yura as well.
The Romanos were in the midst of
the adoption process when Russia insti-
tuted a ban on adoptions to the United
States, tragically halting the Romanos
from bringing both Bogdon and Yura
home to Georgia.
The Romanos were, of course, left
completely devastated. They had
worked for months to be reunited with
their sons, but they lacked concrete in-
formation about the intercountry
adoption process and what was hap-
pening in Russia as well as diplomati-
cally.
Since that time, Pam Romano has re-
fused to give up on welcoming Yura
and Bogdon into her family. Her boys’
room is still furnished and ready for
their arrival, and she won’t stop fight-
ing until her sons are home.
Pam and her family have been tire-
less advocates for their sons but also
for families across the country who are
facing similar threats. They have also
taken up their cause.
Today, American families like the
Romanos are still in need of the most
accurate and up-to-date information as
they labor to bring their adoptive chil-
dren into loving homes. Changing for-
eign practices can leave the adoptive
parents heartbroken and desperately
seeking answers as they pursue inter-
country adoption.
The Intercountry Adoption Informa-
tion Act takes steps to shrink this in-
formation gap by ensuring families
pursuing intercountry adoptions are
equipped with a more thorough outlook
on the status of intercountry adoptions
in specific countries and on the State
Department’s actions to resume adop-
tions that currently remain stalled.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL of
the Foreign Affairs Committee for
moving this critical bill forward. I also
thank my cosponsors, Representatives
LANGEVIN, FITZPATRICK, LAMBORN,
LYNCH, SMITH, and others for their
steadfast commitment to advocating
on behalf of these loving families and
innocent children in need of homes.
Most importantly, I would like to
recognize my constituents, Pam and
Mark Romano, and the entire Romano
family for their advocacy not only for
their own sons but for children all
across the world who are waiting to be
welcomed home.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting the many American fami-
lies who would greatly benefit from a
consistent, reliable source of informa-
tion as they seek to welcome some of
the world’s most vulnerable children
into loving homes and support the
Intercountry Adoption Information
Act.
This is something we have done be-
fore. This is something that brings us
together, and the families who are
brought together by this make a last-
ing impact in the world in which we
live.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I have no further speakers. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I again thank Rep-
resentative COLLINS for this bill. Amer-
ican parents ought to know how for-
eign policy decisions impact their
lives. They also deserve to know what
our government is doing to help unite
them with their children.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, this is a bipartisan bill, and I
urge support from all Members.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 1952, the Intercountry Adop-
tion Information Act, and thank my colleague
from Georgia, Representative COLLINS, for his
partnership on this bipartisan effort. I would
also like to thank Chairman ENGEL and Rank-
ing Member MCCAUL for working together to
ensure its expeditious consideration by their
committee and by the full House.
Whether adopting at home or abroad, every
family should have the information they need
to navigate the process successfully. Yet, fam-
ilies hoping to adopt from foreign countries
can be unaware of political and legal obsta-
cles that may prevent them from doing so.
Russia’s adoption ban in 2012 and the
Democratic Republic of Congo’s intercountry
adoption ban in 2013 are just two examples of
policies that left families in limbo while they
were already in the process of adopting.
More recently, more than 200 American
families and Ethiopian children with pending
adoptions were stuck in heartbreaking uncer-
tainty—unable to unite their families—when
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.017 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3975
May 20, 2019
the Ethiopian government halted all foreign
adoption processing.
As countries like Russia and Ethiopia
change intercountry adoption processes, or
ban adoptions to the United States altogether,
families must have up-to-date information re-
garding policies that could make the adoption
process difficult, or even impossible. No family
members should be left in the dark, oceans
away from each other, wondering if they’ll ever
be united.
Under the Intercountry Adoption Act of
2000, the State Department is required to pro-
vide an annual, public report on intercountry
adoptions. H.R. 1952 is simple. It would en-
sure that this report also includes information
on policies that may prevent or prohibit adop-
tions to the United States.
This information would help families navi-
gate the adoption process successfully. I’m
proud to lead this effort with Congressman
COLLINS, and I urge my colleagues to support
it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CAS-
TRO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1952, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
GLOBAL ELECTORAL EXCHANGE
ACT OF 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 753) to promote
international exchanges on best elec-
tion practices, cultivate more secure
democratic institutions around the
world, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 753
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Global Elec-
toral Exchange Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) recent elections globally have illus-
trated the urgent need for the promotion and
exchange of international best election prac-
tices, particularly in the areas of cybersecu-
rity, results transmission, transparency of
electoral data, election dispute resolution,
and the elimination of discriminatory reg-
istration practices and other electoral irreg-
ularities;
(2) the advancement of democracy world-
wide promotes American interests, as stable
democracies provide new market opportuni-
ties, improve global health outcomes, and
promote economic freedom and regional se-
curity;
(3) credible elections are the cornerstone of
a healthy democracy and enable all persons
to exercise their basic human right to have
a say in how they are governed;
(4) inclusive elections strengthen the credi-
bility and stability of democracies more
broadly;
(5) at the heart of a strong election cycle is
the professionalism of the election manage-
ment body and an empowered civil society;
(6) the development of local expertise via
peer-to-peer learning and exchanges pro-
motes the independence of such bodies from
internal and external influence; and
(7) supporting the efforts of peoples in de-
mocratizing societies to build more rep-
resentative governments in their respective
countries is in the national interest of the
United States.
SEC. 3. GLOBAL ELECTORAL EXCHANGE.
(a) GLOBAL ELECTORAL EXCHANGE.—The
Secretary of State is authorized to establish
and administer a Global Electoral Exchange
Program to promote the utilization of sound
election administration practices around the
world.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Global
Electoral Exchange Program described in
subsection (a) shall include the promotion
and exchange of international best election
practices, including in the areas of—
(1) cybersecurity;
(2) results transmission;
(3) transparency of electoral data;
(4) election dispute resolution;
(5) the elimination of discriminatory reg-
istration practices and electoral irregular-
ities;
(6) equitable access to polling places, voter
education information, and voting mecha-
nisms (including by persons with disabil-
ities); and
(7) other sound election administration
practices.
(c) EXCHANGE OF ELECTORAL AUTHORI-
TIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
may, in consultation, as appropriate, with
the United States Agency for International
Development, make grants to any United
States-based organization described in sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 and exempt from tax under section
501(a) of such Code with experience in and a
primary focus on foreign comparative elec-
tion systems or subject matter expertise in
the administration or integrity of such sys-
tems that submits an application in such
form, and satisfying such requirements, as
the Secretary may require.
(2) TYPES OF GRANTS.—An organization de-
scribed in paragraph (1) may receive a grant
for one or more of the following purposes:
(A) To design and implement programs
bringing election administrators and offi-
cials, including government officials, poll
workers, civil society representatives, mem-
bers of the judiciary, and others who partici-
pate in the organization and administration
of public elections in a foreign country that
faces challenges to its electoral process to
the United States to study election proce-
dures in the United States for educational
purposes.
(B) To design and implement programs
taking the United States or another coun-
try’s election administrators and officials,
including government officials, poll workers,
civil society representatives, members of the
judiciary, and others who participate in the
organization and administration of public
elections to study and discuss election proce-
dures for educational purposes.
(3) LIMITS ON ACTIVITIES.—Activities ad-
ministered under the Global Electoral Ex-
change Program may not—
(A) include observation of an election for
the purposes of assessing the validity or le-
gitimacy of that election;
(B) facilitate any advocacy for a certain
electoral result by a grantee when partici-
pating in the Program; or
(C) be carried out without proper consulta-
tion with State and local authorities in the
United States that administer elections.
(4) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Secretary of State should
establish and maintain a network of Global
Electoral Exchange Program alumni, to pro-
mote communication and further exchange
of information regarding sound election ad-
ministration practices among current and
former program participants.
(5) FURTHER LIMITS.—A recipient of a grant
under the Global Electoral Exchange Pro-
gram may use such grant for only the pur-
pose for which such grant was awarded, un-
less otherwise authorized by the Secretary of
State.
(6) NOT DUPLICATIVE.—Grants made under
this subsection may not be duplicative of
any other grants made under any other pro-
vision of law for similar or related purposes.
SEC. 4. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act and in each of the
following two years thereafter, the Secretary
of State shall provide to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate a briefing on the status
of any activities carried out pursuant to this
Act during the preceding year, which shall
include, among other information, the fol-
lowing:
(1) A summary of all exchanges conducted
under the Global Electoral Exchange Pro-
gram, including information regarding
grantees, participants, and the locations
where program activities were held.
(2) A description of the criteria used to se-
lect grantees under the Global Electoral Ex-
change Program.
(3) Any recommendations for the improve-
ment of the Global Electoral Exchange Pro-
gram, based on the purpose specified in sec-
tion 3(b).
SEC. 5. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
No additional funds are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out the requirements
of this Act. Such requirements shall be car-
ried out using amounts otherwise authorized
to be appropriated.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. CASTRO) and the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT) each will con-
trol 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CASTRO).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 753.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 753, the Global Electoral
Exchange Act of 2019. I would first like
to thank my colleague Representative
MARK MEADOWS for his important work
on this measure that he and I intro-
duced.
We passed this bill last Congress, and
I urge my colleagues to do the same
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.011 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3976 May 20, 2019
this Congress. This time, I hope that
the Senate acts on this small but im-
portant measure that will promote best
practices in election administration
worldwide.
This bill authorizes the Secretary of
State to establish an exchange pro-
gram for election officials like poll
workers, judges, ballot designers, and
civil society to promote best practices
in election administration around the
world.
We would send U.S.-based election
administrators and officials abroad or
bring foreign administrators and offi-
cials to the United States in order to
train and exchange best practices when
it comes to election administration.
This bill is a good idea and is needed
now more than ever. Election irreg-
ularities, voter fraud, election manipu-
lation, discriminatory registration, ac-
cess to polls, intimidation and harass-
ment while voting, and violence at
polling stations are problems that have
plagued countries around the world.
This bill brings people together to
tackle some of these problems and to
ensure that best practices are pro-
moted worldwide.
Credible, transparent, and peaceful
elections are the cornerstones of a sta-
ble and robust democracy. This bill fur-
thers that principle.
Madam Speaker, I strongly support
the passage of H.R. 753, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Global Electoral Exchange
Act authored by my friend and fellow
Texan, Mr. CASTRO.
Authoritarian regimes are a threat
to personal liberty, international secu-
rity, and economic progress all around
the world. Countries like China, Rus-
sia, North Korea, Iran, and Venezuela
present major roadblocks to global
peace and prosperity, but there is noth-
ing that dictators fear more than free
markets and free people. This is why
tyrants use repressive tactics to stifle
dissent and crack down on public pro-
tests.
The world is a safer, more prosperous
place when individuals are governed as
citizens, not subjects. This is why pro-
moting democracy abroad has always
been a bipartisan cause.
The United States must maintain its
leadership in keeping the flame of free-
dom burning. This legislation gives us
another opportunity to be that leader.
The Global Electoral Exchange Act
would facilitate the international ex-
change of election monitors, poll work-
ers, and civil society leaders who par-
ticipate in the administration of elec-
tions. By promoting best practices and
empowering foreign societies to con-
duct elections that truly recognize the
will of the people, these exchanges will
strengthen democratic institutions in
other countries.
Let’s pass this bill and demonstrate
that America remains a beacon of hope
and freedom to the world by empow-
ering free and fair elections.
Madam Speaker, I do want to thank
my colleague from Texas (Mr. CASTRO)
and the gentleman from North Caro-
lina (Mr. MEADOWS) for their hard work
on this bill. Friends of democracy have
an interest in free and fair elections
that are credible and protected from
manipulation. This bill promotes that
and deserves our unanimous support.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this measure. Once again, I thank
my colleague MARK MEADOWS from
North Carolina for his support and hard
work on this bill.
The exchanges under this bill would
be administered by the State Depart-
ment and by USAID and would pro-
mote best practices and strengthen
electoral institutions around the
world.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CAS-
TRO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 753.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1645
DENOUNCING FEMALE GENITAL
MUTILATION/CUTTING AS VIO-
LATING HUMAN RIGHTS OF
WOMEN AND GIRLS
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and agree to the resolution (H. Res.
106) denouncing female genital mutila-
tion/cutting as a violation of the
human rights of women and girls and
urging the international community
and the Federal Government to in-
crease efforts to eliminate the harmful
practice.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 106
Whereas female genital mutilation/cutting
(FGM/C) is recognized internationally as a
violation of the human rights of women and
girls;
Whereas FGM/C comprises all procedures
that involve partial or total removal of the
external female genitalia, or other injury to
the female genital organs for nonmedical
reasons;
Whereas an estimated 200 million girls and
women alive today have been victims of
FGM/C, with girls 14 and younger rep-
resenting 44 million of those who have been
cut;
Whereas more than 3 million girls are esti-
mated to be at risk of FGM/C annually;
Whereas the practice is mostly carried out
on young girls between infancy and age 15;
Whereas the practice is rooted in gender
inequality and is often linked to other ele-
ments of gender-based violence and discrimi-
nation, such as child marriage;
Whereas the World Health Organization as-
serts that FGM/C has no health benefits for
women and girls, and can have long-term im-
pacts on their physical, psychological, sex-
ual, and reproductive health;
Whereas the impacts of FGM/C on the
physical health of women and girls can in-
clude bleeding, infection, obstetric fistula,
complications during childbirth, and death;
Whereas, according to UNICEF, FGM/C is
reported to occur in all parts of the world,
but is most prevalent in parts of Africa, the
Middle East, and Asia;
Whereas, although the practice of FGM/C
is highly concentrated in specific regions
and associated with several cultural tradi-
tions, it is not tied to any one religion;
Whereas, in 2016, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention published a report
estimating that 513,000 women and girls in
the United States were at risk or may have
been subjected to FGM/C;
Whereas, in 2015, the United Nations adopt-
ed a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals
for 2030 that includes a target to eliminate
FGM/C, having previously recognized in 2010
that ‘‘the abandonment of this harmful prac-
tice can be achieved as a result of a com-
prehensive movement that involves all pub-
lic and private stakeholders in society’’;
Whereas the elimination of FGM/C has
been called for by numerous intergovern-
mental organizations, including the African
Union, the European Union, and the Organi-
zation of Islamic Cooperation, as well as in 3
resolutions of the United Nations General
Assembly;
Whereas the Department of State reports
on FGM/C in its Annual Country Reports on
Human Rights Practices, including informa-
tion on whether FGM/C is prevalent, the
type and category of genital cutting that is
most common, as well as international and
governmental efforts being taken to address
the practice;
Whereas the Federal Government recog-
nized FGM/C as a form of gender-based vio-
lence in the United States Strategy to Pre-
vent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence
Globally, released in August 2012 and up-
dated in June 2016, and the United States
Global Strategy to Empower Adolescent
Girls, released in March 2016;
Whereas a Government Accountability Of-
fice report released in 2016 concluded that
‘‘State and USAID currently have limited
international assistance efforts to address
FGM/C.’’; and
Whereas, in 2012, the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly designated February 6 as the
International Day of Zero Tolerance for Fe-
male Genital Mutilation to enhance aware-
ness of and encourage concrete actions by
states and individuals against the practice:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) denounces female genital mutilation/
cutting as a violation of the human rights of
women and girls;
(2) affirms the importance of ending the
practice of female genital mutilation/cutting
globally for the safety and security of
women;
(3) calls upon the international community
to increase efforts to accelerate the elimi-
nation of female genital mutilation/cutting;
and
(4) urges the Department of State and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment in their gender programming to
incorporate coordinated efforts to eliminate
female genital mutilation/cutting.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. CASTRO) and the gentleman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.020 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3977
May 20, 2019
from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT) each will con-
trol 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CASTRO).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H. Res. 106, denouncing female gen-
ital mutilation, or cutting.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise in strong support of this resolu-
tion.
First, I want to thank my colleagues,
Ms. FRANKEL and Mr. PERRY, for intro-
ducing this important bipartisan meas-
ure.
Every year, 3 million girls around the
world are at risk of facing female gen-
ital mutilation, or cutting, also known
as FGMC. It is a horrific practice that
mutilates girls without their consent
and can lead to chronic, long-term
health problems, and it can even be
fatal.
Madam Speaker, the United States
rightly considers female genital muti-
lation, or cutting, a violation of wom-
en’s rights. Here in the United States,
it is a Federal crime to perform this
procedure on girls under the age of 18,
and many other countries have similar
laws banning the practice.
But despite a rising global awareness
about the egregious nature of FGMC, it
is still a reality for millions of women
around the world. It is estimated that
over 200 million women and girls today
have been subjected to this heinous
mistreatment.
We need to speak out against this in-
justice. That is why I am pleased to
support H. Res. 106, a resolution that
denounces female genital mutilation,
cutting, as a violation of the human
rights of women and girls and urges the
international community and the Fed-
eral Government to ramp up our efforts
to eliminate this harmful practice.
We need to do everything we can to
combat the systemic mistreatment and
injustice women face around the world.
So I ask my colleagues to join me in
supporting this resolution to denounce
FGMC.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
this resolution to denounce female gen-
ital mutilation as a violation of the
human rights of women and girls.
I want to thank my committee col-
leagues, Congresswoman LOIS FRANKEL
and Congressman SCOTT PERRY, for in-
troducing the resolution and for their
sustained engagement on the issue.
An estimated 200 million women and
girls have been victims of FGM, which
has dangerous and lasting health impli-
cations. The United States and many
other countries and international orga-
nizations have called for an end to this
highly invasive practice.
Every year, the Department of State
reports on the prevalence of FGM as
part of the Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices, and this is an impor-
tant tool for raising awareness of
where this abuse persists.
This resolution urges the Depart-
ment of State and USAID to go further
and to incorporate anti-FGM efforts
into their existing programming
around the world. U.S. leadership is
important to putting an end to this
human rights violation.
Speaking as the father of a daughter
and a grandfather of five grand-
daughters, I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this measure.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms. FRANKEL),
the author of this resolution.
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, let
me start by first of all thanking my
colleague, Mr. CASTRO, for yielding
time, and Chairman ENGEL and Rank-
ing Member MCCAUL for their bipar-
tisan leadership.
I am rising in support of a bipartisan
resolution brought by myself and Rep-
resentative SCOTT PERRY of Pennsyl-
vania denouncing female genital muti-
lation and cutting, known as FGM.
Every girl, no matter where she is
born, has a right to be free of violence,
and FGM is a barbaric violation of
girls’ and women’s human rights. It is
defined by the World Health Organiza-
tion as any procedure that involves
partial or total removal of the external
female genitalia or other injury to the
female genital organs for nonmedical
reasons.
Madam Speaker, there is no develop-
mental, religious, or health-related
justification for this harmful practice.
FGM poses immediate risks to girls’
health, including severe pain and
bleeding, difficulty in passing urine, in-
fections, and even death due to hemor-
rhage or shock.
The practice often leaves girls with
long-term scars as well: post-traumatic
stress disorder, chronic pain, HIV in-
fection, cysts, abscess, genital ulcers. I
could go on.
Girls who have undergone FGM also
face an increased risk of complications
affecting their menstrual cycles, some-
times resulting in infertility. And as
my colleagues pointed out, more than
200 million women and girls living
today around the world, including
women right here in the United States
of America, have been cut.
And now here is a horrible statistic:
UNICEF predicts that, if there is no re-
duction in this practice within the next
30 years, the number of girls being mu-
tilated each year is going to grow from
3.6 million a year to 6.6 million a year.
Madam Speaker, I want you to know
that, with resources and advocacy, we
can stop this horrific practice. Just
look at Jaha, a very, very courageous
young woman from Gambia who was a
week old when she was mutilated and
forced into marriage at age 15. Now,
she escaped that marriage. She could
easily have fallen into despair. Instead,
she spoke out because she never want-
ed her daughter or any other child to
go through the suffering of FGM. Be-
cause of her hard-fought efforts, FGM
is now banned in her home country.
Like Jaha, we must all do more. So,
today, I am asking the United States
Congress to pass this bipartisan resolu-
tion denouncing female genital mutila-
tion, recognizing it as a violation of
the human rights of women and girls,
affirming the importance of ending its
practice for the safety and security of
women, calling upon the international
community to increase its efforts to
accelerate the elimination, and urging
our State Department of the United
States, in their gender programming,
to incorporate coordinated efforts to
eliminate FGM.
Today, we are going to send a clear
message that this practice must stop;
and the United States, as one of the
largest donors in the global health pro-
grams, can help end this cruel practice.
There are things that we can do, like
allocating resources annually to con-
tinue our efforts to eliminate FGM,
codifying the U.S. strategies to prevent
and respond to gender-based violence;
and we must—I want to say this em-
phatically—we must restore funding to
the U.N. Population Fund, the world’s
largest program to end FGM, that
works with 17 countries and more than
3 million survivors.
Madam Speaker, ending FGM will
help millions of girls have a better life.
And when they have a better life, that
means that their communities will be
more prosperous and more peaceful, be-
cause when women succeed, the world
succeeds.
It is imperative that we end female
genital mutilation now. And I thank
my colleagues for joining me in sup-
port of this critical resolution.
Mr. WRIGHT. In closing, I again
want to thank Representative FRANKEL
and Representative PERRY for their
persistence in this fight.
Every case of female genital mutila-
tion is one too many. This resolution
calls on the nations of the world to do
more to stop this awful violation of the
dignity and safety of women and girls.
It deserves our unanimous support.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
We all agree that female genital mu-
tilation, or cutting, is a horrific form
of child abuse and a violation of wom-
en’s rights.
The resolution before us today is a
signal to the rest of the world that the
United States Congress is paying at-
tention to this issue; we stand with the
millions of women who are still being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.023 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3978 May 20, 2019
subjected to this practice; and we will
not stop fighting for their right to dig-
nity and respect.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting H.
Res. 106, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CAS-
TRO) that the House suspend the rules
and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 106.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
STRONGER CHILD ABUSE PREVEN-
TION AND TREATMENT ACT
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2480) to reauthorize the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2480
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents of this Act is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROGRAM
Sec. 101. Repeal of findings.
Sec. 102. Repeal of Advisory Board on Child
Abuse and Neglect.
Sec. 103. National clearinghouse for infor-
mation relating to child abuse.
Sec. 104. Research and assistance activities.
Sec. 105. Grants to States, Indian Tribes or
tribal organizations, and public
or private agencies and organi-
zations.
Sec. 106. Grants to States for child abuse or
neglect prevention and treat-
ment programs.
Sec. 107. Miscellaneous requirements.
Sec. 108. Reports.
Sec. 109. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 110. Monitoring and oversight.
Sec. 111. Electronic interstate data ex-
change system.
Sec. 112. Technical and conforming amend-
ments.
TITLE II—COMMUNITY-BASED GRANTS
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CHILD
ABUSE AND NEGLECT
Sec. 201. Purpose and authority.
Sec. 202. Eligibility.
Sec. 203. Amount of grant.
Sec. 204. Application.
Sec. 205. Local program requirements.
Sec. 206. Performance measures.
Sec. 207. National network for community-
based family resource pro-
grams.
Sec. 208. Definitions.
Sec. 209. Rule of construction.
Sec. 210. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 211. Study and report.
TITLE III—ADOPTION OPPORTUNITIES
Sec. 301. Purpose.
Sec. 302. Report and guidance on unregu-
lated custody transfers.
Sec. 303. Information and services.
Sec. 304. Study and report on successful
adoptions.
Sec. 305. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE IV—AMENDMENTS TO OTHER
LAWS
Sec. 401. Technical and conforming amend-
ments to other laws.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROGRAM
SEC. 101. REPEAL OF FINDINGS.
Section 2 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 note) is re-
pealed.
SEC. 102. REPEAL OF ADVISORY BOARD ON
CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT.
Section 102 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5102) is re-
pealed.
SEC. 103. NATIONAL CLEARINGHOUSE FOR IN-
FORMATION RELATING TO CHILD
ABUSE.
Section 103 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5104) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ‘‘early
learning programs and’’ after ‘‘including’’;
(2) in subsection (c)(1)(C)—
(A) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(B) in clause (iv), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the
end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) the number of child fatalities and near
fatalities due to maltreatment, as reported
by States in accordance with the uniform
standards established pursuant to subsection
(d), and any other relevant information re-
lated to such fatalities;’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR TRACKING
AND REPORTING OF CHILD FATALITIES RESULT-
ING FROM MALTREATMENT.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—Not later
than 24 months after the date of the enact-
ment of the Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act, the Secretary shall de-
velop and issue final regulations establishing
uniform standards for the tracking and re-
porting of child fatalities and near-fatalities
resulting from maltreatment. As a condition
on eligibility for receipt of funds under sec-
tion 106, the standards established under this
paragraph shall be used by States for the
tracking and reporting of such fatalities
under subsection (d) of such section.
‘‘(2) MAINTENANCE OF STATE LAW.—Notwith-
standing the uniform standards developed
under paragraph (1), a State that defines or
describes such fatalities for any purpose
other than tracking and reporting under this
subsection may continue to use that defini-
tion or description for such purpose.
‘‘(3) NEGOTIATED RULEMAKING.—In devel-
oping regulations under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit such regulations to a
negotiated rulemaking process, which shall
include the participants described in para-
graph (4).
‘‘(4) PARTICIPANTS DESCRIBED.—The partici-
pants described in this paragraph are—
‘‘(A) State and county officials responsible
for administering the State plans under this
Act and parts B and E of title IV of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 621 et seq., 670 et
seq.);
‘‘(B) child welfare professionals with field
experience;
‘‘(C) child welfare researchers;
‘‘(D) domestic violence researchers;
‘‘(E) domestic violence professionals;
‘‘(F) child development professionals;
‘‘(G) mental health professionals;
‘‘(H) pediatric emergency medicine physi-
cians;
‘‘(I) child abuse pediatricians, as certified
by the American Board of Pediatrics, who
specialize in treating victims of child abuse;
‘‘(J) forensic pathologists;
‘‘(K) public health administrators;
‘‘(L) public health researchers;
‘‘(M) law enforcement;
‘‘(N) family court judges;
‘‘(O) prosecutors;
‘‘(P) medical examiners and coroners;
‘‘(Q) a representative from the National
Center for Fatality Review and Prevention;
and
‘‘(R) such other individuals and entities as
the Secretary determines to be appro-
priate.’’.
SEC. 104. RESEARCH AND ASSISTANCE ACTIVI-
TIES.
Section 104 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5105) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) TOPICS.—The Secretary shall, in con-
sultation with other Federal agencies and
recognized experts in the field, carry out a
continuing interdisciplinary program of re-
search, including longitudinal research, that
is designed to provide information needed to
improve primary prevention of child abuse
and neglect, better protect children from
child abuse or neglect, and improve the well-
being of victims of child abuse or neglect,
with at least a portion of such research being
field initiated. Such research program may
focus on—
‘‘(A) disseminating evidence-based treat-
ment directed to individuals and families ex-
periencing trauma due to child abuse and ne-
glect, including efforts to improve the
scalability of the treatments and programs
being researched;
‘‘(B) developing a set of evidence-based ap-
proaches to support child and family well-
being and developing ways to identify, re-
lieve, and mitigate stressors affecting fami-
lies in rural, urban, and suburban commu-
nities;
‘‘(C) establishing methods to promote ra-
cial equity in the child welfare system, in-
cluding a focus on how neglect is defined,
how services are provided, and the unique
impact on Native American, Alaska Native,
and Native Hawaiian communities;
‘‘(D) improving service delivery or out-
comes for child welfare service agencies en-
gaged with families experiencing domestic
violence, substance use disorder, or other
complex needs;
‘‘(E) the extent to which the number of un-
substantiated, unfounded, and false reported
cases of child abuse or neglect have contrib-
uted to the inability of a State to respond ef-
fectively to serious cases of child abuse or
neglect;
‘‘(F) the extent to which the lack of ade-
quate resources and the lack of adequate
professional development of individuals re-
quired by law to report suspected cases of
child abuse and neglect have contributed to
the inability of a State to respond effec-
tively to serious cases of child abuse and ne-
glect;
‘‘(G) the extent to which unsubstantiated
reports return as more serious cases of child
abuse or neglect;
‘‘(H) the incidence and outcomes of child
abuse and neglect allegations reported with-
in the context of divorce, custody, or other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.024 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3979
May 20, 2019
family court proceedings, and the inter-
action between family courts and the child
protective services system;
‘‘(I) the information on the national inci-
dence of child abuse and neglect specified in
clauses (i) through (xi) of subparagraph (J);
and
‘‘(J) the national incidence of child abuse
and neglect, including—
‘‘(i) the extent to which incidents of child
abuse and neglect are increasing or decreas-
ing in number and severity;
‘‘(ii) the incidence of substantiated and un-
substantiated reported child abuse and ne-
glect cases;
‘‘(iii) the number of substantiated cases
that result in a judicial finding of child
abuse or neglect or related criminal court
convictions;
‘‘(iv) the extent to which the number of un-
substantiated, unfounded and false reported
cases of child abuse or neglect have contrib-
uted to the inability of a State to respond ef-
fectively to serious cases of child abuse or
neglect;
‘‘(v) the extent to which the lack of ade-
quate resources and the lack of adequate
education of individuals required by law to
report suspected cases of child abuse and ne-
glect have contributed to the inability of a
State to respond effectively to serious cases
of child abuse and neglect;
‘‘(vi) the number of unsubstantiated, false,
or unfounded reports that have resulted in a
child being placed in substitute care, and the
duration of such placement;
‘‘(vii) the extent to which unsubstantiated
reports return as more serious cases of child
abuse or neglect;
‘‘(viii) the incidence and prevalence of
physical, sexual, and emotional abuse and
physical and emotional neglect in substitute
care;
‘‘(ix) the incidence and prevalence of child
maltreatment by a wide array of demo-
graphic characteristics such as age, sex,
race, family structure, household relation-
ship (including the living arrangement of the
resident parent and family size), school en-
rollment and education attainment, dis-
ability, grandparents as caregivers, labor
force status, work status in previous year,
and income in previous year;
‘‘(x) the extent to which reports of sus-
pected or known instances of child abuse or
neglect involving a potential combination of
jurisdictions, such as intrastate, interstate,
Federal-State, and State-Tribal, are being
screened out solely on the basis of the cross-
jurisdictional complications; and
‘‘(xi) the incidence and outcomes of child
abuse and neglect allegations reported with-
in the context of divorce, custody, or other
family court proceedings, and the inter-
action between family courts and the child
protective services system.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (1)(O)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(1)(J)’’;
(C) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of the enactment of the
Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment Act, the Secretary shall prepare and
submit to the Committee on Education and
Labor of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions of the Senate a report that
contains the results of the research con-
ducted under paragraph (2).
‘‘(B) NATIONAL INCIDENCE.—The Secretary
shall ensure that research conducted, and
data collected, under paragraph (1)(J) are re-
ported in a way that will allow longitudinal
comparisons as well as comparisons to the
national incidence studies conducted under
this title.’’; and
(D) by striking the second paragraph (4);
(2) in subsection (b), by amending para-
graph (2) to read as follows:
‘‘(2) AREAS OF EMPHASIS.—Such technical
assistance—
‘‘(A) shall focus on—
‘‘(i) implementing strategies that can le-
verage existing community-based and State
funded resources to prevent child abuse and
neglect and providing education for individ-
uals involved in prevention activities;
‘‘(ii) reducing racial bias in child welfare
systems, including how such systems inter-
act with health, law enforcement, and edu-
cation systems;
‘‘(iii) promoting best practices for families
experiencing domestic violence, substance
use disorder, or other complex needs; and
‘‘(iv) providing professional development
and other technical assistance to child wel-
fare agencies to improve the understanding
of and to help address the effects of trauma
and adverse childhood experiences in parents
and children in contact with the child wel-
fare system; and
‘‘(B) may include the identification of—
‘‘(i) various methods and procedures for
the investigation, assessment, and prosecu-
tion of child physical and sexual abuse cases;
‘‘(ii) ways to mitigate psychological trau-
ma to the child victim;
‘‘(iii) effective programs carried out by the
States under titles I and II; and
‘‘(iv) effective approaches being utilized to
link child protective service agencies with
health care, mental health care, and develop-
mental services and early intervention to
improve forensic diagnosis and health eval-
uations, and barriers and shortages to such
linkages.’’;
(3) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph
(3); and
(4) by striking subsection (e).
SEC. 105. GRANTS TO STATES, INDIAN TRIBES OR
TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS, AND PUB-
LIC OR PRIVATE AGENCIES AND OR-
GANIZATIONS.
Section 105 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as para-
graph (11);
(B) by striking paragraphs (1) through (6)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) PREVENTION SERVICES.—The Secretary
may award grants under this subsection to
entities to establish or expand prevention
services that reduce incidences of child mal-
treatment and strengthen families.
‘‘(2) TRAUMATIC STRESS.—The Secretary
may award grants under this subsection to
entities to address instances of traumatic
stress in families due to child abuse and ne-
glect, especially for families with complex
needs or families that exhibit high levels of
adverse childhood experiences.
‘‘(3) PROMOTING A HIGH-QUALITY WORK-
FORCE.—The Secretary may award grants
under this subsection to entities to carry out
programs or strategies that promote a high-
quality workforce in the child welfare sys-
tem through–—
‘‘(A) improvements to recruitment, sup-
port, or retention efforts; or
‘‘(B) education for professionals and para-
professionals in the prevention, identifica-
tion, and treatment of child abuse and ne-
glect.
‘‘(4) IMPROVING COORDINATION.—The Sec-
retary may award grants under this sub-
section to entities to carry out activities to
improve intrastate coordination within the
child welfare system. Such activities may in-
clude—
‘‘(A) aligning information technology sys-
tems;
‘‘(B) improving information sharing re-
garding child and family referrals; or
‘‘(C) creating collaborative voluntary part-
nerships among public and private agencies,
the State’s child protective services, local
social service agencies, community-based
family support programs, State and local
legal agencies, developmental disability
agencies, substance use disorder treatment
providers, health care providers and agen-
cies, domestic violence prevention programs,
mental health services, schools and early
learning providers, religious entities, and
other community-based programs.
‘‘(5) PRIMARY PREVENTION.—The Secretary
may award grants under this subsection to
entities to carry out or expand primary pre-
vention programs or strategies that address
family or community protective factors.
‘‘(6) NEGLECT DUE TO ECONOMIC INSECU-
RITY.—The Secretary may award grants
under this subsection to entities to carry out
programs or strategies that reduce findings
of child neglect due in full or in part to fam-
ily economic insecurity.
‘‘(7) EDUCATION OF MANDATORY REPORT-
ERS.—The Secretary may award grants under
this subsection to entities for projects that
involve research-based strategies for innova-
tive education of mandated child abuse and
neglect reporters, and for victims to under-
stand mandatory reporting.
‘‘(8) SENTINEL INJURIES.—The Secretary
may award grants under this subsection to
entities to identify and test effective prac-
tices to improve early detection and man-
agement of injuries indicative of potential
abuse in infants to prevent future cases of
child abuse and related fatalities.
‘‘(9) INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS.—The Sec-
retary may award grants under this sub-
section to entities to carry out innovative
programs or strategies to coordinate the de-
livery of services to help reduce child abuse
and neglect via partnerships among health,
mental health, education (including early
learning and care programs as appropriate),
and child welfare agencies and providers.
‘‘(10) REDUCING CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT
DUE TO THE SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER OF A
PARENT OR CAREGIVER.—The Secretary may
award grants under this subsection to enti-
ties to carry out activities to reduce child
abuse and neglect due to the substance use
disorder of a parent or caregiver.’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12) NATIONAL CHILD ABUSE HOTLINE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may
award a grant under this subsection to a
nonprofit entity to provide for the ongoing
operation of a 24-hour, national, toll-free
telephone hotline to provide information and
assistance to youth victims of child abuse or
neglect, parents, caregivers, mandated re-
porters, and other concerned community
members, including through alternative mo-
dalities for communications (such as texting
or chat services) with such victims and other
information seekers.
‘‘(B) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants de-
scribed in this paragraph, the Secretary
shall give priority to applicants with experi-
ence in operating a hotline that provides as-
sistance to victims of child abuse, parents,
caregivers, and mandated reporters.
‘‘(C) APPLICATION.—To be eligible to re-
ceive a grant described in this paragraph, a
nonprofit entity shall submit an application
to the Secretary that shall—
‘‘(i) contain such assurances and informa-
tion, be in such form, and be submitted in
such manner, as the Secretary shall pre-
scribe;
‘‘(ii) include a complete description of the
entity’s plan for the operation of a national
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3980 May 20, 2019
child abuse hotline, including descriptions
of—
‘‘(I) the professional development program
for hotline personnel, including technology
professional development to ensure that all
persons affiliated with the hotline are able
to effectively operate any technological sys-
tems used by the hotline;
‘‘(II) the qualifications for hotline per-
sonnel;
‘‘(III) the methods for the creation, main-
tenance, and updating of a comprehensive
list of prevention and treatment service pro-
viders;
‘‘(IV) a plan for publicizing the availability
of the hotline throughout the United States;
‘‘(V) a plan for providing service to non-
English speaking callers, including service
through hotline personnel who have non-
English language capability;
‘‘(VI) a plan for facilitating access to the
hotline and alternative modality services by
persons with hearing impairments and dis-
abilities;
‘‘(VII) a plan for providing crisis coun-
seling, general assistance, and referrals to
youth victims of child abuse; and
‘‘(VIII) a plan to offer alternative services
to calling, such as texting or live chat;
‘‘(iii) demonstrate that the entity has the
capacity and the expertise to maintain a
child abuse hotline and a comprehensive list
of service providers;
‘‘(iv) demonstrate the ability to provide in-
formation and referrals for contacts, directly
connect contacts to service providers, and
employ crisis interventions;
‘‘(v) demonstrate that the entity has a
commitment to providing services to indi-
viduals in need; and
‘‘(vi) demonstrate that the entity complies
with State privacy laws and has established
quality assurance practices.’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and
inserting the following:
‘‘(b) GOALS AND PERFORMANCE.—The Sec-
retary shall ensure that each entity receiv-
ing a grant under this section—
‘‘(1) establishes quantifiable goals for the
outcome of the project funded with the
grant; and
‘‘(2) adequately measures the performance
of the project relative to such goals.
‘‘(c) PERFORMANCE REPORT REQUIRED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each entity that re-
ceives a grant under this section shall sub-
mit to the Secretary a performance report
that includes—
‘‘(A) an evaluation of the effectiveness of
the project funded with the grant relative to
the goals established for such project under
subsection (b)(1); and
‘‘(B) data supporting such evaluation.
‘‘(2) SUBMISSION.—The report under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted to the Secretary
at such time, in such manner, and con-
taining such information as the Secretary
may require.
‘‘(d) CONTINUING GRANTS.—The Secretary
may only award a continuing grant to an en-
tity under this section if such entity submits
a performance report required under sub-
section (c) that demonstrates effectiveness
of the project funded.’’.
SEC. 106. GRANTS TO STATES FOR CHILD ABUSE
OR NEGLECT PREVENTION AND
TREATMENT PROGRAMS.
(a) DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION
GRANTS.—Subsection (a) of section 106 of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5106a) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(a) DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION
GRANTS.—The Secretary shall make grants
to the States, from allotments under sub-
section (f) for each State that applies for a
grant under this section, for purposes of as-
sisting the States in improving and imple-
menting a child protective services system
that is family-centered, integrates commu-
nity services, and is capable of providing
rapid response to high-risk cases, by car-
rying out the following:
‘‘(1) Conducting the intake, assessment,
screening, and investigation of reports of
child abuse or neglect.
‘‘(2) Ensuring that reports concerning a
child’s living arrangements or subsistence
needs are addressed through services or bene-
fits and that no child is separated from such
child’s parent for reasons of poverty.
‘‘(3) Creating and improving the use of
multidisciplinary teams and interagency,
intra-agency, interstate, and intrastate pro-
tocols to enhance fair investigations; and
improving legal preparation and representa-
tion.
‘‘(4) Complying with the assurances in sec-
tion 106(b)(2).
‘‘(5) Establishing State and local networks
of child and family service providers that
support child and family well-being, which
shall—
‘‘(A) include child protective services, as
well as agencies and service providers, that
address family-strengthening, parenting
skills, child development, early childhood
care and learning, child advocacy, public
health, mental health, substance use dis-
order treatment, domestic violence, develop-
mental disabilities, housing, juvenile justice,
elementary and secondary education, and
child placement; and
‘‘(B) address instances of child abuse and
neglect by incorporating evaluations that as-
sess the development of a child, including
language and communication, cognitive,
physical, and social and emotional develop-
ment, the need for mental health services,
including trauma-related services, trauma-
informed care, and parental needs.
‘‘(6) Ensuring child protective services is
addressing the safety of children and re-
sponding to parent and family needs, which
shall include—
‘‘(A) family-oriented efforts that empha-
size case assessment and follow up casework
focused on child safety and child and parent
well-being, which may include—
‘‘(i) ensuring parents and children undergo
physical and mental health assessments, as
appropriate, and ongoing developmental
monitoring;
‘‘(ii) multidisciplinary approaches to as-
sessing family needs and connecting the fam-
ily with services, including prevention serv-
ices under section 471 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 671);
‘‘(iii) organizing a treatment team with
the goal of preventing child abuse and ne-
glect, and improving parent and child well-
being;
‘‘(iv) case monitoring that supports child
well-being; and
‘‘(v) differential response efforts; and
‘‘(B) establishing and maintaining a rapid
response system that responds promptly to
all reports of child abuse or neglect, with
special attention to cases involving children
under 3 years of age.
‘‘(7) Educating caseworkers, community
service providers, attorneys, health care pro-
fessionals, parents, and others engaged in
the prevention, intervention, and treatment
of child abuse and neglect, which shall in-
clude education on—
‘‘(A) practices that help ensure child safety
and well-being;
‘‘(B) approaches to family-oriented preven-
tion, intervention, and treatment of child
abuse and neglect;
‘‘(C) early childhood, child, and adolescent
development, and the impact of adverse
childhood experiences on such development;
‘‘(D) the relationship between child abuse
and domestic violence, and support for non-
abusing parents;
‘‘(E) strategies to work with families im-
pacted by substance use disorder and mental
health issues (and, when appropriate, be co-
ordinated with prevention efforts funded
under section 471 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 671));
‘‘(F) effective use of multiple services to
address family and child needs, including
needs resulting from trauma;
‘‘(G) efforts to improve family and child
well-being;
‘‘(H) support for child welfare workers af-
fected by secondary trauma; and
‘‘(I) supporting families and caregivers to
combat and prevent unsubstantiated, un-
founded, or false reports, including through
education on the rights of families and care-
givers.
‘‘(8) Creating or improving data systems
that allow for—
‘‘(A) the identification of cases requiring
prompt responses;
‘‘(B) real-time case monitoring that tracks
assessments, service referrals, follow-up,
case reviews, and progress toward parent and
child goals; and
‘‘(C) sharing basic identifying data with
law enforcement, as necessary.
‘‘(9) Improving the general child protective
system by developing, improving, and imple-
menting safety assessment tools, providing
that such tools, protocols, and systems shall
not authorize the separation of any child
from the legal parent or guardian of such
child solely on the basis of poverty, or with-
out a judicial order, except in the case of im-
minent harm.’’.
(b) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) STATE PLAN.—Paragraph (1) of section
106(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)) is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(1) STATE PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive
a grant under this section, a State shall sub-
mit to the Secretary a State plan that—
‘‘(i) specifies how the grant will be used,
and the State’s strategic plan, to treat child
abuse and neglect and enhance community-
based, prevention-centered approaches that
attempt to prevent child abuse and neglect
while strengthening and supporting families
whenever possible; and
‘‘(ii) meets the requirements of this sub-
section.
‘‘(B) COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION.—
‘‘(i) COORDINATION.—Each State, to the
maximum extent practicable, shall coordi-
nate its State plan under this subsection
with its State plan under part B of title IV
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 621 et
seq.) relating to child and family services
and, in States electing to provide services
under part E of title IV of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 670 et seq.) relating to fos-
ter care prevention services, its State plan
under such part E.
‘‘(ii) CONSULTATION.—In developing a State
plan under this subsection, a State shall con-
sult with community-based prevention and
service agencies, parents and families af-
fected by child abuse or neglect in the State,
law enforcement, family court judges, pros-
ecutors who handle criminal child abuse
cases, and medical professionals engaged in
the treatment of child abuse and neglect.
‘‘(C) DURATION AND SUBMISSION OF PLAN.—
Each State plan shall—
‘‘(i) be submitted not less than every 5
years; and
‘‘(ii) if necessary, revised by the State to
inform the Secretary of any substantive
changes, including—
‘‘(I) any changes to State law or regula-
tions, relating to the prevention of child
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3981
May 20, 2019
abuse and neglect that may affect the eligi-
bility of the State under this section; or
‘‘(II) any changes in the State’s activities,
strategies, or programs under this section.’’.
(2) CONTENTS.—Paragraph (2) of section
106(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)) is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—A State plan submitted
under paragraph (1) shall contain a descrip-
tion of the activities that the State will
carry out using amounts received under the
grant to achieve the objectives of this title,
including—
‘‘(A) an assurance in the form of a certifi-
cation by the Governor of the State that the
State has in effect and is enforcing a State
law, or has in effect and is operating a state-
wide program, relating to child abuse and ne-
glect that includes—
‘‘(i) provisions or procedures for an indi-
vidual to report known and suspected in-
stances of child abuse and neglect, including
a State law for mandatory reporting by indi-
viduals required to report such instances;
‘‘(ii) procedures for the immediate screen-
ing, risk and safety assessment, and prompt
investigation of such reports of alleged abuse
and neglect in order to ensure the well-being
and safety of children;
‘‘(iii) procedures for immediate steps to be
taken to ensure and protect the safety of a
victim of child abuse or neglect and of any
other child under the same care who may
also be in danger of child abuse or neglect
and ensuring their placement in a safe envi-
ronment;
‘‘(iv) methods to preserve the confiden-
tiality of all records in order to protect the
rights of the child and of the child’s parents
or guardians, including requirements ensur-
ing that reports and records made and main-
tained pursuant to the purposes of this Act
shall only be made available to—
‘‘(I) individuals who are the subject of the
report;
‘‘(II) Federal, State, or local government
entities, or any agent of such entities, as de-
scribed in clause (xi) of this subparagraph;
‘‘(III) child abuse citizen review panels;
‘‘(IV) child fatality review panels;
‘‘(V) a grand jury or court, upon a finding
that information in the record is necessary
for the determination of an issue before the
court or grand jury; and
‘‘(VI) other entities or classes of individ-
uals statutorily authorized by the State to
receive such information pursuant to a le-
gitimate State purpose;
‘‘(v) provisions and procedures requiring
that in every case involving a victim of child
abuse or neglect which results in a judicial
proceeding, a guardian ad litem, who has re-
ceived education appropriate to the role, in-
cluding education in early childhood, child,
and adolescent development, and domestic
violence, and who may be an attorney or a
court appointed special advocate who has re-
ceived education appropriate to that role (or
both), shall be appointed to represent the
child (who, for purposes of this section, shall
have any age limit elected by the State pur-
suant to section 475(8)(B)(iii) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 675(8)(B)(iii)) in such
proceedings—
‘‘(I) to obtain first-hand, a clear under-
standing of the situation and needs of such
child; and
‘‘(II) to make recommendations to the
court concerning the best interests of such
child;
‘‘(vi) the establishment of citizen review
panels in accordance with subsection (c);
‘‘(vii) provisions and procedures to require
that a representative of the child protective
services agency shall, at the initial time of
contact with the individual subject to a child
abuse or neglect investigation, advise the in-
dividual of the complaints or allegations
made against the individual, in a manner
that is consistent with laws protecting the
rights of the informant;
‘‘(viii) provisions, procedures, and mecha-
nisms—
‘‘(I) for the expedited termination of paren-
tal rights in the case of any infant deter-
mined to be abandoned under State law; and
‘‘(II) by which individuals who disagree
with an official finding of child abuse or ne-
glect can appeal such finding;
‘‘(ix) provisions addressing the professional
development of representatives of the child
protective services system regarding the
legal duties of the representatives, which
may consist of various methods of informing
such representatives of such duties (includ-
ing providing such education in different
languages if necessary), in order to protect
the legal rights and safety of children and
their parents and caregivers from the initial
time of contact during investigation through
treatment;
‘‘(x) provisions for immunity from civil or
criminal liability under State and local laws
and regulations for individuals making good
faith reports of suspected or known in-
stances of child abuse or neglect, or who oth-
erwise provide information or assistance, in-
cluding medical evaluations or consulta-
tions, in connection with a report, investiga-
tion, or legal intervention pursuant to a
good faith report of child abuse or neglect;
‘‘(xi) provisions to require the State to dis-
close confidential information to any Fed-
eral, State, or local government entity, or
any agent of such entity, that has a need for
such information in order to carry out its re-
sponsibilities under law to protect children
from child abuse and neglect;
‘‘(xii) provisions requiring, and procedures
in place that facilitate the prompt
expungement of any records that are acces-
sible to the general public or are used for
purposes of employment or other background
checks in cases determined to be unsubstan-
tiated or false, except that nothing in this
section shall prevent State child protective
services agencies from keeping information
on unsubstantiated reports in their casework
files to assist in future risk and safety as-
sessment;
‘‘(xiii) provisions and procedures for re-
quiring criminal background record checks
that meet the requirements of section
471(a)(20) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 671(a)(20)) for prospective foster and
adoptive parents and other adult relatives
and non- relatives residing in the household;
‘‘(xiv) provisions for systems of technology
that support the State child protective serv-
ices system and track reports of child abuse
and neglect from intake through final dis-
position;
‘‘(xv) provisions and procedures requiring
identification and assessment of all reports
involving children known or suspected to be
victims of sex trafficking (as defined in sec-
tion 103(12) of the Trafficking Victims Pro-
tection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102 (12));
‘‘(xvi) provisions, procedures, and mecha-
nisms that assure that the State does not re-
quire reunification of a surviving child with
a parent who has been found by a court of
competent jurisdiction—
‘‘(I) to have committed murder (which
would have been an offense under section
1111(a) of title 18, United States Code, if the
offense had occurred in the special maritime
or territorial jurisdiction of the United
States) of another child of such parent;
‘‘(II) to have committed voluntary man-
slaughter (which would have been an offense
under section 1112(a) of title 18, United
States Code, if the offense had occurred in
the special maritime or territorial jurisdic-
tion of the United States) of another child of
such parent;
‘‘(III) to have aided or abetted, attempted,
conspired, or solicited to commit such mur-
der or voluntary manslaughter;
‘‘(IV) to have committed a felony assault
that results in the serious bodily injury to
the surviving child or another child of such
parent;
‘‘(V) to have committed sexual abuse
against the surviving child or another child
of such parent; or
‘‘(VI) to be required to register with a sex
offender registry under section 113(a) of the
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16913(a)); and
‘‘(xvii) an assurance that, upon the imple-
mentation by the State of the provisions,
procedures, and mechanisms under clause
(xvi), conviction of any one of the felonies
listed in clause (xvi) constitute grounds
under State law for the termination of pa-
rental rights of the convicted parent as to
the surviving children (although case-by-
case determinations of whether or not to
seek termination of parental rights shall be
within the sole discretion of the State);
‘‘(B) an assurance that the State has in
place procedures for responding to the re-
porting of medical neglect (including in-
stances of withholding of medically indi-
cated treatment from infants with disabil-
ities who have life-threatening conditions),
procedures or programs, or both (within the
State child protective services system), to
provide for—
‘‘(i) coordination and consultation with in-
dividuals designated by and within appro-
priate health-care facilities;
‘‘(ii) prompt notification by individuals
designated by and within appropriate health-
care facilities of cases of suspected medical
neglect (including instances of withholding
of medically indicated treatment from in-
fants with disabilities who have life-threat-
ening conditions); and
‘‘(iii) authority, under State law, for the
State child protective services system to
pursue any legal remedies, including the au-
thority to initiate legal proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction, as may be
necessary to prevent the withholding of
medically indicated treatment from infants
with disabilities who have life-threatening
conditions;
‘‘(C) an assurance or certification that pro-
grams and education conducted under this
title address the unique needs of unaccom-
panied homeless youth, including access to
enrollment and support services and that
such youth are eligible for under parts B and
E of title IV of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 621 et seq., 670 et seq.) and meet the
requirements of the McKinney-Vento Home-
less Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.);
‘‘(D) a description of—
‘‘(i) policies and procedures (including ap-
propriate referrals to child welfare service
systems and for other appropriate services
(including home visiting services and mutual
support and parent partner programs) deter-
mined by a family assessment) to address the
needs of infants born with and identified as
being affected by substance use or with-
drawal symptoms resulting from prenatal
drug exposure, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum
Disorder, including a requirement that
health care providers involved in the deliv-
ery or care of such infants notify the child
protective welfare service system of the oc-
currence of such condition in such infants,
except that—
‘‘(I) child protective services shall under-
take an investigation only when the findings
of a family assessment warrant such inves-
tigation; and
‘‘(II) such notification shall not be con-
strued to—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3982 May 20, 2019
‘‘(aa) establish a definition under Federal
law of what constitutes child abuse or ne-
glect; or
‘‘(bb) require prosecution for any illegal
action;
‘‘(ii) the development of a multi-discipli-
nary plan of safe care for the infant born and
identified as being affected by substance use
or withdrawal symptoms or a Fetal Alcohol
Spectrum Disorder to ensure the safety and
well-being of such infant following release
from the care of health care providers, in-
cluding through—
‘‘(I) using a risk-based approach to develop
each plan of safe care;
‘‘(II) addressing, through coordinated serv-
ice delivery, the health and substance use
disorder treatment needs of the infant and
affected family or caregiver as determined
by a family assessment; and
‘‘(III) the development and implementation
by the State of monitoring systems regard-
ing the implementation of such plans of safe
care to determine whether and in what man-
ner local entities are providing, in accord-
ance with State requirements, referrals to
and delivery of appropriate services for the
infant and affected family or caregiver;
‘‘(iii) policies and procedures to make
available to the public on the State website
the data, findings, and information about all
cases of child abuse or neglect resulting in a
child fatality or near fatality, including a
description of—
‘‘(I) how the State will not create an excep-
tion to such public disclosure, except in a
case in which—
‘‘(aa) the State would like to delay public
release of case-specific findings or informa-
tion (including any previous reports of do-
mestic violence and subsequent actions
taken to assess and address such reports)
while a criminal investigation or prosecu-
tion of such a fatality or near fatality is
pending;
‘‘(bb) the State is protecting the identity
of a reporter of child abuse or neglect; or
‘‘(cc) the State is withholding identifying
information of members of the victim’s fam-
ily who are not perpetrators of the fatality
or near fatality; and
‘‘(II) how the State will ensure that in pro-
viding the public disclosure required under
this clause, the State will include—
‘‘(aa) the cause and circumstances of the
fatality or near fatality;
‘‘(bb) the age and gender of the child; and
‘‘(cc) any previous reports of child abuse or
neglect investigations that are relevant to
the child abuse or neglect that led to the fa-
tality or near fatality;
‘‘(iv) how the State will use data collected
on child abuse or neglect to prevent child fa-
talities and near fatalities;
‘‘(v) how the State will implement efforts
to prevent child fatalities and near fatali-
ties;
‘‘(vi) the cooperation of State law enforce-
ment officials, court of competent jurisdic-
tion, and appropriate State agencies pro-
viding human services in the investigation,
assessment, prosecution, and treatment of
child abuse and neglect;
‘‘(vii) the steps the State will take to im-
prove the professional development, reten-
tion, and supervision of caseworkers and how
the State will measure the effectiveness of
such efforts;
‘‘(viii) the State’s plan to ensure each child
under the age of 3 who is involved in a sub-
stantiated case of child abuse or neglect will
be referred to the State’s child find system
under section 635(a)(5) of the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C.
1435(a)(5)) in order to determine if the child
is an infant or toddler with a disability (as
defined in section 632(5) of such Act (20
U.S.C. 1432(5)));
‘‘(ix) the State’s plan to improve, as part of
a comprehensive State strategy led by law
enforcement, professional development for
child protective services workers and their
appropriate role in identifying, assessing,
and providing comprehensive services for
children who are sex trafficking victims, in
coordination with law enforcement, juvenile
justice agencies, runaway and homeless
youth shelters, and health, mental health,
and other social service agencies and pro-
viders;
‘‘(x) the services to be provided under the
grant to individuals, families, or commu-
nities, either directly or through referrals,
aimed at preventing the occurrence of child
abuse and neglect;
‘‘(xi) the State’s efforts to ensure profes-
sionals who are required to report suspected
cases of child abuse and neglect are aware of
their responsibilities under subparagraph
(A)(i) and receive professional development
relating to performing such responsibilities
that is specific to their profession and work-
place;
‘‘(xii) policies and procedures encouraging
the appropriate involvement of families in
decisionmaking pertaining to children who
experienced child abuse or neglect;
‘‘(xiii) the State’s efforts to improve appro-
priate collaboration among child protective
services agencies, domestic violence services
agencies, substance use disorder treatment
agencies, and other agencies in investiga-
tions, interventions, and the delivery of serv-
ices and treatment provided to children and
families affected by child abuse or neglect,
including children exposed to domestic vio-
lence, where appropriate;
‘‘(xiv) policies and procedures regarding
the use of differential response, as applica-
ble, to improve outcomes for children; and
‘‘(xv) the State’s efforts to reduce racial
bias in its child protective services system.’’.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—Paragraph (3) of section
106(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)) is amend-
ed—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘LIMITATION’’ and inserting ‘‘LIMITATIONS’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘With regard to clauses (vi)
and (vii) of paragraph (2)(B),’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(A) DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION.—With regard to subparagraphs
(A)(iv) and (D)(iii) of paragraph (2),’’;
(C) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) PUBLIC ACCESS TO COURT PRO-
CEEDINGS.—Nothing in paragraph (2) shall be
construed to limit the State’s flexibility to
determine State policies relating to public
access to court proceedings to determine
child abuse and neglect, except that such
policies shall, at a minimum, ensure the
safety and well-being of the child, parents,
and families.’’.
(4) DEFINITIONS.—Paragraph (4) of section
106(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)) is amend-
ed—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘DEFINITIONS’’ and inserting ‘‘DEFINITION’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘this subsection’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘means an act’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘this subsection, the
term ‘near fatality’ means an act’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a pe-
riod; and
(D) by striking subparagraph (B).
(c) CITIZEN REVIEW PANELS.—Section 106(c)
of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘EXCEP-
TIONS.’’ and all that follows through ‘‘A
State may’’ and inserting ‘‘EXCEPTION.—A
State may’’;
(2) in paragraph (4)(A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘and where appropriate, specific
cases,’’; and
(B) in clause (iii)(I), by striking ‘‘foster
care and adoption programs’’ and inserting
‘‘foster care, prevention, and permanency
programs’’; and
(3) by amending the first sentence of para-
graph (6) to read as follows: ‘‘Each panel es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall prepare
and make available to the State and the pub-
lic, on an annual basis, a report containing a
summary of the activities of the panel, the
criteria used for determining which activi-
ties the panel engaged in, and recommenda-
tions or observations to improve the child
protective services system at the State and
local levels, and the data upon which these
recommendations or observations are
based.’’.
(d) ANNUAL STATE DATA REPORTS.—Section
106(d) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by amending paragraph (13) to read as
follows:
‘‘(13) The annual report containing the
summary of the activities and recommenda-
tions of the citizen review panels of the
State required by subsection (c)(6), and the
actions taken by the State as a result of
such recommendations.’’;
(2) in paragraph (15), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(D)(i)’’;
(3) in paragraph (16), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(xxi)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(D)(viii)’’;
(4) in paragraph (17), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(xxiv)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(A)(xv)’’; and
(5) in paragraph (18)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(D)(i)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(D)(ii)’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (b)(2)(D)(ii)’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(19) The number of child fatalities and
near fatalities from maltreatment and re-
lated information in accordance with the
uniform standards established under section
103(d).’’.
(e) ALLOTMENTS.—Section 106(f) of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5106a(f)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(6) LIMITATION.—For any fiscal year for
which the amount allotted to a State or ter-
ritory under this subsection exceeds the
amount allotted to the State or territory
under such subsection for fiscal year 2019,
the State or territory may use not more
than 2 percent of such excess amount for ad-
ministrative expenses.’’.
SEC. 107. MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
Section 108 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106d) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘Indian
tribes, and tribal organizations,’’ after
‘‘States,’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (c)
through (e) as subsections (d) through (f), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) PROTECTING AGAINST SYSTEMIC CHILD
SEXUAL ABUSE.—
‘‘(1) REPORTING AND TASK FORCE.—Not later
than 24 months after the date of the enact-
ment of the Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3983
May 20, 2019
and Treatment Act, each State task force es-
tablished under section 107(c) and expanded
as described in paragraph (2) shall study and
make recommendations on the following,
with a focus on preventing systemic child
sexual abuse:
‘‘(A) How to detect systemic child sexual
abuse that occurs in an organization.
‘‘(B) How to prevent child sexual abuse and
systemic child sexual abuse from occurring
in organizations, which shall include rec-
ommendations to improve—
‘‘(i) practices and policies for the edu-
cation of parents, caregivers, and victims,
and age appropriate education of children,
about risk factors or signs of potential child
sexual abuse; and
‘‘(ii) the efficacy of applicable State laws
and the role such laws play in deterring or
preventing incidences of child sexual abuse.
‘‘(C) The feasibility of making available
the disposition of a perpetrator within an or-
ganization to—
‘‘(i) the child alleging sexual abuse or the
child’s family; or
‘‘(ii) an adult who was a child at the time
of the sexual abuse claim in question or the
adult’s family.
‘‘(2) TASK FORCE COMPOSITION.—For pur-
poses of this subsection, a State task force
shall include—
‘‘(A) the members of the State task force
described in section 107(c) for the State; and
‘‘(B) the following:
‘‘(i) Family court judges.
‘‘(ii) Individuals from religious organiza-
tions.
‘‘(iii) Individuals from youth-serving orga-
nizations, including youth athletics organi-
zations.
‘‘(3) REPORTING ON RECOMMENDATIONS.—Not
later than 6 months after a State task force
makes recommendations under paragraph
(1), the State maintaining such State task
force shall—
‘‘(A) make public the recommendations of
such report;
‘‘(B) report to the Secretary on the status
of adopting such recommendations; and
‘‘(C) in a case in which the State declines
to adopt a particular recommendation, make
public the explanation for such declination.
‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sub-
section—
‘‘(A) the terms ‘child sexual abuse’ and
‘sexual abuse’ shall not be limited to an act
or a failure to act on the part of a parent or
caretaker;
‘‘(B) the term ‘organization’ means any en-
tity that serves children; and
‘‘(C) the term ‘systemic child sexual abuse’
means—
‘‘(i) a pattern of informal or formal policy
or de facto policy to not follow State and
local requirements to report instances of
child sexual abuse in violation of State and
local mandatory reporting laws or policy; or
‘‘(ii) a pattern of assisting individual per-
petrators in maintaining their careers de-
spite substantiated evidence of child sexual
abuse.’’.
SEC. 108. REPORTS.
(a) SCALING EVIDENCE-BASED TREATMENT OF
CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT.—Section 110 of
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act (42 U.S.C. 5106f) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘SEC. 110. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO
SCALING EVIDENCE-BASED TREAT-
MENT OF CHILD ABUSE AND NE-
GLECT; STUDY AND REPORT ON
MARITAL AGE OF CONSENT; STUDY
AND REPORT ON STATE MANDATORY
REPORTING LAWS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a study that examines challenges to,
and best practices for, the scalability of
treatments that reduce the trauma resulting
from child abuse and neglect and reduce the
risk of revictimization, such as those allow-
able under sections 105 and 106.
‘‘(b) CONTENT OF STUDY.—The study de-
scribed in subsection (a) shall be completed
in a manner that considers the variability
among treatment programs and among popu-
lations vulnerable to child abuse and ne-
glect. The study shall include, at minimum:
‘‘(1) A detailed synthesis of the existing re-
search literature examining barriers and
challenges to, and best practices for the
scalability of child welfare programs and
services as well as programs and services for
vulnerable children and families in related
fields, including healthcare and education.
‘‘(2) Data describing state and local pro-
viders’ experiences with scaling treatments
that reduce the trauma resulting from child
abuse and neglect and reduce the risk of re-
victimization.
‘‘(3) Consultation with experts in child wel-
fare, healthcare, and education.
‘‘(c) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of the enactment of the Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act,
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives a
report that contains the results of the study
conducted under subsection (a), including
recommendations for best practices for scal-
ing treatments that reduce the trauma re-
sulting from child abuse and neglect and re-
duce the risk of revictimization.
‘‘(d) STUDY AND REPORT ON MARITAL AGE OF
CONSENT.—
‘‘(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall study,
with respect to each State—
‘‘(A) the State law regarding the minimum
marriage age; and
‘‘(B) the prevalence of marriage involving
a child who is under the age of such min-
imum marriage age.
‘‘(2) FACTORS.—The study required under
paragraph (1) shall include an examination
of—
‘‘(A) the extent to which any statutory ex-
ceptions to the minimum marriage age in
such laws contribute to the prevalence of
marriage involving a child described in para-
graph (1)(B);
‘‘(B) whether such exceptions allow such a
child to be married without the consent of
such child; and
‘‘(C) the impact of such exceptions on the
safety of such children.
‘‘(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of the Stronger Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives a
report containing the findings of the study
required by this subsection, including any
best practices.
‘‘(e) STUDY AND REPORT ON STATE MANDA-
TORY REPORTING LAWS.—
‘‘(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall collect
information on and otherwise study State
laws for mandatory reporting of incidents of
child abuse or neglect. Such study shall ex-
amine trends in referrals and investigations
of child abuse and neglect due to differences
in such State laws with respect to the inclu-
sion, as mandatory reporters, of the fol-
lowing individuals:
‘‘(A) Individuals licensed or certified to
practice in any health-related field licensed
by the State, employees of health care facili-
ties or providers licensed by the State, who
are engaged in the admission, examination,
care or treatment of individuals, including
mental health and emergency medical serv-
ice providers.
‘‘(B) Individuals employed by a school who
have direct contact with children, including
teachers, administrators, and independent
contractors.
‘‘(C) Peace officers and law enforcement
personnel.
‘‘(D) Clergy, including Christian Science
practitioners, except where prohibited on ac-
count of clergy-penitent privilege.
‘‘(E) Day care and child care operators and
employees.
‘‘(F) Employees of social services agencies
who have direct contact with children in the
course of employment.
‘‘(G) Foster parents.
‘‘(H) Court appointed special advocates
(employees and volunteers).
‘‘(I) Camp and after-school employees.
‘‘(J) An individual, paid or unpaid, who, on
the basis of the individual’s role as an inte-
gral part of a regularly scheduled program,
activity, or service, accepts responsibility
for a child.
‘‘(2) REPORT.—Not later than 4 years after
the date of enactment of the Stronger Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives a
report containing the findings of the study
required by this subsection, including any
best practices related to the inclusion, as
mandatory reporters, of individuals de-
scribed in paragraph (1).’’.
(b) REPORT ON CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT IN
INDIAN TRIBAL COMMUNITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General, in consultation
with the Indian tribes from each of the 12 re-
gions of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall
study child abuse and neglect in Indian Trib-
al communities for the purpose of identi-
fying vital information and making rec-
ommendations concerning issues relating to
child abuse and neglect in such commu-
nities, and submit to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and
the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Education and
Labor and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives a re-
port on such study, which shall include—
(A) the number of Indian tribes providing
primary child abuse and neglect prevention
activities;
(B) the number of Indian tribes providing
secondary child abuse and neglect prevention
activities;
(C) promising practices of Indian tribes
with respect to child abuse and neglect pre-
vention that are culturally-based or cul-
turally-adapted;
(D) information and recommendations on
how such culturally-based or culturally-
adapted child abuse and neglect prevention
activities could become evidence-based;
(E) the number of Indian tribes that have
accessed Federal child abuse and neglect pre-
vention programs;
(F) child abuse and neglect prevention ac-
tivities that Indian tribes provide using
State funds;
(G) child abuse and neglect prevention ac-
tivities that Indian tribes provide using
Tribal funds;
(H) Tribal access to State children’s trust
fund resources, as described in section 202 of
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act (42 U.S.C. 5116a);
(I) how a children’s trust fund model could
be used to support prevention efforts regard-
ing child abuse and neglect of American In-
dian and Alaska Native children;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3984 May 20, 2019
(J) Federal agency technical assistance ef-
forts to address child abuse and neglect pre-
vention and treatment of American Indian
and Alaska Native children;
(K) Federal agency cross-system collabora-
tion to address child abuse and neglect pre-
vention and treatment of American Indian
and Alaska Native children;
(L) Tribal access to child abuse and neglect
prevention research and demonstration
grants under the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.); and
(M) an examination of child abuse and ne-
glect data systems to identify what Tribal
data is being submitted, barriers to submit-
ting data, and recommendations on improv-
ing the collection of data from Indian Tribes.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘Alaska Native’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 111 of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5106g); and
(B) the terms ‘‘child abuse and neglect’’
and ‘‘Indian tribe’’ have the meaning given
the terms in section 3 of the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C.
5101 note).
SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 112(a) of the Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106h(a))
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘to carry out’’ through
‘‘fiscal year 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘to carry out
this title $270,000,000 for fiscal year 2020’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘2011 through 2015’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’; and
(2) by striking paragraph (2)(A) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts appro-
priated for a fiscal year under paragraph (1),
the Secretary shall make available 30 per-
cent of such amounts, or $100,000,000, which-
ever is less, to fund discretionary activities
under this title.’’.
SEC. 110. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.
Section 114(1) of the Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5108(1)) is
amended—
(1) in each of subparagraphs (A) and (B), by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) include written guidance and tech-
nical assistance to support States, which
shall include guidance on the requirements
of this Act with respect to infants born with
and identified as being affected by substance
use or withdrawal symptoms, Neonatal Ab-
stinence Syndrome, or Fetal Alcohol Spec-
trum Disorder, as described in clauses (i) and
(ii) of section 106(b)(2)(D), including by—
‘‘(i) enhancing States’ understanding of re-
quirements and flexibilities under the law,
including by clarifying key terms;
‘‘(ii) addressing State-identified challenges
with developing, implementing, and moni-
toring plans of safe care; and
‘‘(iii) disseminating best practices on im-
plementation of plans of safe care, on such
topics as differential response, collaboration
and coordination, and identification and de-
livery of services for different populations,
while recognizing needs of different popu-
lations and varying community approaches
across States; and
‘‘(D) include the submission of a report to
the Committee on Education and Labor of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act that contains a description of the activi-
ties taken by the Secretary to comply with
the requirements of subparagraph (C); and’’.
SEC. 111. ELECTRONIC INTERSTATE DATA EX-
CHANGE SYSTEM.
Title I of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 115. ELECTRONIC INTERSTATE DATA EX-
CHANGE SYSTEM.
‘‘(a) INTERSTATE DATA EXCHANGE SYS-
TEM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall consider the rec-
ommendations included in the reports re-
quired under paragraph (8)(A) and subsection
(b)(2) in developing an electronic interstate
data exchange system that allows State enti-
ties responsible under State law for main-
taining child abuse and neglect registries to
communicate information across State lines.
‘‘(2) STANDARDS.—In developing the elec-
tronic interstate data exchange system
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) use interoperable standards developed
and maintained by intergovernmental part-
nerships, such as the National Information
Exchange Model;
‘‘(B) develop policies and governance
standards that—
‘‘(i) ensure consistency in types of informa-
tion shared and not shared; and
‘‘(ii) specify circumstances under which
data should be shared through the interstate
data exchange system; and
‘‘(C) ensure that all standards and policies
adhere to the privacy, security, and civil
rights laws of each State and Federal law.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON USE OF ELECTRONIC
INTERSTATE DATA EXCHANGE SYSTEM.—The
electronic interstate data exchange system
may only be used for purposes relating to
child safety.
‘‘(4) PILOT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(A) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 6
months after the date of the enactment of
this section, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall begin implementation
of a pilot program to generate recommenda-
tions for the full integration of the elec-
tronic interstate data exchange system.
Such pilot program shall include not less
than 10 States and not more than 15 States.
‘‘(B) COMPLETION.—Not later than 30
months after the date of the enactment of
this section, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall complete the pilot pro-
gram described in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(5) INTEGRATION.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services may assist
States in the integration of this system into
the infrastructure of each State using funds
appropriated under this subsection.
‘‘(6) PARTICIPATION.—As a condition on eli-
gibility for receipt of funds under section 106,
each State shall—
‘‘(A) participate in the electronic inter-
state data exchange system to the fullest ex-
tent possible in accordance with State law
(as determined by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 2027; and
‘‘(B) prior to the participation described in
subparagraph (A), provide to the Secretary
of Health and Human Services an assurance
that the child abuse and neglect registry of
such State provides procedural due process
protections with respect to including indi-
viduals on such registry.
‘‘(7) PROHIBITION.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services may not access or store
data from the electronic interstate data ex-
change system, unless the State to which
such data pertains voluntarily shares such
data with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services.
‘‘(8) REPORTS.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall prepare and sub-
mit to Congress—
‘‘(A) not later than 3 years after the date of
the enactment of this section, a report on
the recommendations from the pilot pro-
gram described in paragraph (4); and
‘‘(B) not later than January 31, 2025, a re-
port on the progress made in implementing
this subsection.
‘‘(9) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Of the funds appropriated under section 112
for a fiscal year—
‘‘(A) for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021,
$2,000,000 shall be reserved to carry out this
section; and
‘‘(B) for each of fiscal years 2022 through
2025, $1,000,000 shall be reserved to carry out
this section.
‘‘(b) WORKING GROUP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.— Not later than 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall convene a working group to
study and make recommendations on the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) The feasibility of making publicly
available on the website of each State defini-
tions and standards of substantiated child
abuse and neglect for the State.
‘‘(B) Whether background check require-
ments under this Act, the Child Care and De-
velopment Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.
9858 et seq.), and part E of title IV of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670 et seq.) are
complementary or if there are discrepancies
that need to be addressed.
‘‘(C) How to improve communication be-
tween and across States, including through
the use of technology and the use of the elec-
tronic interstate data exchange system es-
tablished under subsection (a), to allow for
more accurate and efficient exchange of
child abuse and neglect records.
‘‘(D) How to reduce barriers and establish
best practices for the State to provide timely
responses to requests from other States for
information contained in the State’s child
abuse and neglect registry through the elec-
tronic interstate data exchange system es-
tablished under subsection (a).
‘‘(E) How to ensure due process for any in-
dividual included in a State’s child abuse and
neglect registry, including the following:
‘‘(i) The level of evidence necessary for in-
clusion in the State’s child abuse and neglect
registry.
‘‘(ii) The process for notifying such indi-
vidual of inclusion in the State’s child abuse
and neglect registry and the implications of
such inclusion.
‘‘(iii) The process for providing such indi-
vidual the opportunity to challenge such in-
clusion, and the procedures for resolving
such challenge.
‘‘(iv) The length of time an individual’s
record is to remain in the State’s child abuse
and neglect registry, and the process for re-
moving such individual’s record.
‘‘(v) The criteria for when such individual’s
child abuse and neglect registry record may
be—
‘‘(I) made accessible to the general public;
‘‘(II) made available for purposes of an em-
ployment check; and
‘‘(III) be shared for the purposes of partici-
pation in the electronic interstate data ex-
change system described in subsection (a).
‘‘(2) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the working group convened under
paragraph (1) shall submit a report con-
taining its recommendations to the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee
on Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
‘‘(3) CONSTRUCTION.—There shall be no re-
quirement for any State to adopt the rec-
ommendations of the working group, nor
shall the Secretary of Health and Human
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3985
May 20, 2019
Services incentivize or coerce any State to
adopt any such recommendation.’’.
SEC. 112. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.— The Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42
U.S.C. 5101 et seq.), as amended by the pre-
ceding provisions of this Act, is further
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Committee on Education
and the Workforce’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Committee on Education and
Labor’’;
(2) in section 103(c)(1)(F), by striking
‘‘abused and neglected children’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘victims of child abuse or neglect’’; and
(3) in section 107(f), by striking ‘‘(42 U.S.C.
10603a)’’ and inserting ‘‘(34 U.S.C. 20104)’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) SECTION 103.—Section 103(b)(5) (42 U.S.C.
5104(b)(5)) is amended by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)’’.
(2) SECTION 105.—Section 105(a)(11) (42
U.S.C. 5106(a)(11) (as redesignated by section
105(1)(A) of this Act) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (i)(II), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)’’;
(ii) in clause (i)(IV), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)(II)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)(II)’’; and
(iii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘clauses (ii)
and (iii) of section 106(b)(2)(B)’’ and inserting
‘‘clauses (i) and (ii) of section 106(b)(2)(D)’’;
(C) in subparagraph (D)—
(i) in clause (i)(I), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)(I)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)(I)’’;
(ii) in clause (ii)(I), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(i)’’;
(iii) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)(I)’’;
(iv) in clause (iii)(I), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(i)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(A)(i)’’;
(v) in clause (iii)(IV), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)’’; and
(vi) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(B)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(ii)’’;
(D) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 106(b)(2)(B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
106(b)(2)(D)(i)’’; and
(E) in subparagraph (G)(ii), by striking
‘‘clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 106(b)(2)(B)’’
and inserting ‘‘clauses (i) and (ii) of section
106(b)(2)(D)’’.
(3) SECTION 114.—Section 114(1)(B) (42 U.S.C.
5108(1)(B)) is amended by striking ‘‘clauses
(ii) and (iii) of section 106(b)(2)(B)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘clauses (i) and (ii) of section
106(b)(2)(D)’’.
(4) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents in section 1(b) of the Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment Act is amended—
(A) by striking the items relating to sec-
tions 2 and 102;
(B) by inserting after the item relating to
section 114 the following:
‘‘Sec. 115. Electronic interstate data ex-
change system.’’; and
(C) by striking the item relating to section
110, and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 110. Study and report relating to scal-
ing evidence-based treatment of
child abuse and neglect; study
and report on marital age of
consent; study and report on
State mandatory reporting
laws.’’.
TITLE II—COMMUNITY-BASED GRANTS
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE
AND NEGLECT
SEC. 201. PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
Subsections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5116) are amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(a) PURPOSE.—The purposes of this title
are—
‘‘(1) to establish and maintain support for
community-based family strengthening serv-
ices and statewide systems-building ap-
proaches to the extent practicable, to ensure
the development, operation, expansion, co-
ordination, and evaluation of quality serv-
ices, initiatives, programs, and activities to
prevent child abuse and neglect; and
‘‘(2) to promote improved access for diverse
populations with demonstrated need, includ-
ing low-income families, racial and ethnic
minorities, families with children or care-
givers with disabilities, underserved commu-
nities, and rural communities, to family
strengthening services in order to more ef-
fectively prevent child abuse and neglect.
‘‘(b) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary shall
make grants under this title on a formula
basis to the entity designated by the State
as the lead entity (referred to in this title as
the ‘lead entity’) under section 202(1) for the
following purposes:
‘‘(1) Providing programs, activities, and
initiatives to help families build protective
factors linked to the prevention of child
abuse and neglect, such as knowledge of par-
enting and child development, parental resil-
ience, social connections, time-limited and
need-based concrete support, and social and
emotional development of children, that—
‘‘(A) are accessible to diverse populations,
effective, and culturally appropriate;
‘‘(B) build upon existing strengths;
‘‘(C) offer assistance to families;
‘‘(D) provide early, comprehensive support
for parents;
‘‘(E) promote the development of healthy
familial relationships and parenting skills,
especially in young parents and parents with
very young children;
‘‘(F) increase family stability;
‘‘(G) improve family access to formal and
informal community-based resources, includ-
ing health and mental health services, time-
limited and need-based concrete supports,
and services and supports to meet the needs
of families with children or caregivers with
disabilities; and
‘‘(H) support the additional needs of fami-
lies with children with disabilities, including
through respite care.
‘‘(2) Fostering the development of a con-
tinuum of preventive services to strengthen
families through State- and community-
based collaborations and both public and pri-
vate partnerships.
‘‘(3) Financing the start-up, maintenance,
expansion, or redesign of core services de-
scribed in section 205, where communities
have identified gaps and decided to prioritize
the establishment of such services, to the ex-
tent practicable given funding levels and
community priorities.
‘‘(4) Maximizing funding through
leveraging Federal, State, local, public, and
private funds to carry out the purposes of
this title.
‘‘(5) Developing or enhancing statewide and
local networks to operate, expand, or en-
hance community-based family strength-
ening services, initiatives, and activities
that promote child, parent, family, and com-
munity health and well-being and prevent
child abuse and neglect.
‘‘(6) Promoting the development of, and co-
ordination with, existing community coali-
tions of networks of family strengthening
services that utilize culturally responsive
providers in order to enhance child, family,
and community well-being and prevent child
abuse and neglect in all families.
‘‘(7) Financing public information activi-
ties that focus on parent and child develop-
ment and child abuse and neglect prevention.
‘‘(8) To the extent practicable—
‘‘(A) promoting the development and im-
plementation of a statewide systems-build-
ing strategy to address the unmet needs
identified in the inventory described in sec-
tion 204(3), including the participation of
public and private stakeholders, community-
based organizations, legislators, parents and
other relevant stakeholders, and State agen-
cies, including the child welfare agency, the
public health agency, housing agency, and
the State education agency, to scale evi-
dence-based, evidence-informed, and prom-
ising programs that expand access to family
strengthening services and reduce the num-
bers of children entering the foster care sys-
tem;
‘‘(B) developing comprehensive outreach
strategies to engage families with various
risk factors, including families who have ex-
perienced trauma or domestic violence, par-
ents with substance use disorder, and fami-
lies with children or caregivers with disabil-
ities; and
‘‘(C) providing capacity-building supports
to local programs to improve desired out-
comes for children and families, such as—
‘‘(i) technical assistance, including support
for local programs to collect outcome data
that helps improve service delivery;
‘‘(ii) professional development; and
‘‘(iii) peer support networks, including
through developing a problem-solving
forum.’’.
SEC. 202. ELIGIBILITY.
Section 202 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116a) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) the Governor of the State has des-
ignated a lead entity to administer funds
under this title for the purposes identified
under the authority of this title, including
to develop, implement, operate, enhance, or
expand community-based family strength-
ening services designed to prevent child
abuse and neglect;’’; and
(B) by striking subparagraph (D) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(D) the Governor of the State has given
consideration to the capacity and expertise
of all entities requesting to be designated
under subparagraph (A);’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) has demonstrated ongoing meaningful
partnerships with parents in the develop-
ment, operation, and oversight of State- and
community-based family strengthening serv-
ices designed to prevent child abuse and ne-
glect;’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘com-
munity-based and prevention-focused pro-
grams and activities designed to strengthen
and support families’’ and inserting ‘‘com-
munity-based family strengthening services
designed’’;
(C) by striking subparagraph (C) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(C) has the capacity to provide oper-
ational support (both financial and pro-
grammatic), professional development, tech-
nical assistance, and evaluation assistance,
to community-based organizations;’’; and
(D) by striking subparagraph (D) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(D) will integrate efforts with individuals
and organizations experienced in working in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3986 May 20, 2019
partnership with low-income families, racial
and ethnic minorities, families with children
or caregivers with disabilities, sexual and
gender minority youth, victims of domestic
violence, and with the child abuse and ne-
glect prevention activities in the State, and
demonstrate a financial commitment to
those activities; and
‘‘(E) will take into consideration access for
diverse populations and unmet need when
distributing funds to local programs under
section 205.’’.
SEC. 203. AMOUNT OF GRANT.
Section 203 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116b) is
amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) RESERVATION.—For the purpose of
making allotments to Indian tribes and trib-
al organizations and migrant programs, the
Secretary shall reserve 5 percent of the
amount appropriated under section 210(a) for
each fiscal year, except that, if making such
reservation would cause the total amount al-
lotted to States under this section for a fis-
cal year to be less than such total for fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall reserve 1 per-
cent of the amount appropriated under sec-
tion 210(a) for the year for such purpose.’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) LIMITATION.—For any fiscal year for
which the amount allotted to a State under
subsection (b) exceeds the amount allotted
to the State under such subsection for fiscal
year 2019, the State’s lead entity may use
not more than 10 percent of such excess
amount for administrative expenses.’’.
SEC. 204. APPLICATION.
Section 204 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116d) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘specified by the Secretary as es-
sential to carrying out the provisions of sec-
tion 202, including’’ and inserting ‘‘and as-
surances required in paragraphs (2) and (3) of
section 202 and types of information specified
by the Secretary as essential in carrying out
the provisions of section 201(b), including’’;
(2) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (4), by strik-
ing ‘‘community-based and prevention-fo-
cused programs and activities designed to
strengthen and support families’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘community-based family strengthening
services designed’’;
(3) in paragraph (3) by striking ‘‘commu-
nity-based and prevention-focused programs
and activities’’ and inserting ‘‘community-
based family strengthening services de-
signed’’;
(4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and pre-
vention-focused programs and activities de-
signed to strengthen and support families to
prevent child abuse and neglect;’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘services and statewide strategies de-
signed to strengthen and support families to
promote child, family, and community well-
being and prevent child abuse and neglect;’’;
(5) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(6) a description of the State’s capacity
and commitment to ensure the meaningful
involvement of parents who are or have been
consumers of preventative supports, includ-
ing the involvement of parents of diverse
populations, such as low-income families,
families with children or caregivers with dis-
abilities, racial and ethnic minorities, and
members of other underrepresented or under-
served groups, family advocates, and adult
victims of child abuse or neglect who can
provide leadership in the planning, imple-
mentation, and evaluation of the programs
and policy decisions of the applicant agency
in accomplishing the desired outcomes for
such efforts;’’;
(6) by redesignating paragraph (12) as para-
graph (15);
(7) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through
(11) as paragraphs (8) through (12), respec-
tively;
(8) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) a description of the process and cri-
teria the lead entity will use to identify and
select communities in which to build a con-
tinuum of family strengthening services, in-
cluding an assurance that the process will
ensure access for all families, including fam-
ilies in communities with high rates of child
abuse and neglect relative to other commu-
nities in the State;’’;
(9) by striking paragraph (9), as so redesig-
nated, and inserting the following:
‘‘(9) a description of outreach activities
that the lead entity and local grantees will
undertake to maximize the participation of
low-income families, racial and ethnic mi-
norities, families with children or caregivers
with disabilities, sexual and gender minority
youth, victims of domestic violence, home-
less families and those at risk of homeless-
ness, and members of other underserved or
underrepresented groups;’’.
(10) by striking paragraph (10), as so redes-
ignated, and inserting the following:
‘‘(10) a plan for providing operational sup-
port, professional development, and tech-
nical assistance to grantees, other State and
local programs and providers, families, and
other entities involved in strengthening fam-
ilies and preventing child abuse and ne-
glect;’’;
(11) in paragraph (11), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘and its members (where appro-
priate)’’ and inserting ‘‘of community-based
family strengthening services and statewide
initiatives’’; and
(12) by striking paragraph (12), as so redes-
ignated, and inserting the following:
‘‘(12) a description of the actions that the
applicant entity will take to inform sys-
temic changes in State policies, practices,
procedures, and regulations to improve the
delivery of community-based family
strengthening services designed to promote
child, family, and community well-being,
and to prevent child abuse and neglect;
‘‘(13) a description of how the lead entity
will incorporate research evidence in its
process for selecting community-based fam-
ily strengthening services;
‘‘(14) an assurance that, in issuing regula-
tions to improve the delivery of community-
based family strengthening services designed
to promote child, family, and community
well-being, and to prevent child abuse and
neglect, the State will—
‘‘(A) take into account how such regula-
tions will impact activities funded under
this Act; and
‘‘(B) where appropriate, attempt to avoid
duplication of efforts, minimize costs of
compliance with such regulations, and maxi-
mize local flexibility with respect to such
regulations; and’’.
SEC. 205. LOCAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
Section 205 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116e) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 205. LOCAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Grants from the lead en-
tity made under this title shall be used to
develop, implement, operate, expand, and en-
hance community-based family strength-
ening services designed to prevent child
abuse and neglect that—
‘‘(1) assess community assets and needs
and develop a strategy to create a com-
prehensive continuum of effective services
that strengthen and support families to pre-
vent child abuse and neglect, through a plan-
ning process involving parents, local and
public agencies, local nonprofit organiza-
tions and service providers, and private sec-
tor representatives in meaningful ways;
‘‘(2) develop or enhance existing place-
based family strengthening services, other
parenting support services, and connections
and coordination among key family services
in the community by reaching spaces famil-
iar to such families; and
‘‘(3) help families build protective factors
that support child and family well-being and
help prevent child abuse and neglect, includ-
ing knowledge of parenting and child devel-
opment, parental resilience, social connec-
tions, time-limited and need-based concrete
support, and social and emotional develop-
ment of children.
‘‘(b) LOCAL CONSIDERATION.—In awarding
grants, the lead entity shall consider, con-
sistent with the needs of the State and com-
munity, how the grantee—
‘‘(1) demonstrates the ability to form col-
laborations across a range of services or ini-
tiatives and the commitment to engage in
long-term planning and strategic develop-
ment for community-based family strength-
ening services as well as provide on-going
problem solving support;
‘‘(2) involves parents, including parents of
children with disabilities, diverse racial and
ethnic groups, and members of other under-
represented or underserved populations, in
the development, implementation, oversight,
and evaluation of services;
‘‘(3) addresses the need for place-based
services and the need to reach families in
hard-to-reach areas through approaches that
provide core family strengthening services;
‘‘(4) promotes improved access to family
strengthening services for diverse popu-
lations and ensures that the services address
identified needs of all families; and
‘‘(5) demonstrates an understanding of the
sources of child and family trauma and the
strategies that mitigate the impact of and
prevent adverse childhood experiences.
‘‘(c) LOCAL USES OF FUNDS.—Grant funds
from the lead entity shall be used for com-
munity-based family strengthening services
designed to prevent child abuse and neglect,
which may include the following:
‘‘(1) Developing a strategy based on sup-
porting a comprehensive continuum of pre-
ventive, family-centered services that
strengthen and support families to prevent
child abuse and neglect, especially to young
parents, to parents with young children, and
to parents who are adult victims of domestic
violence or child abuse or neglect, through
public-private partnerships.
‘‘(2) Addressing the needs of families in
hard-to-reach areas by creating access to
place-based family strengthening services.
‘‘(3) Performing an assessment of commu-
nity needs, including by partnering, at the
option of the grantee, with an organization
that already has performed a needs assess-
ment (such as a Maternal, Infant and Early
Childhood Home Visiting program under sec-
tion 511 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
711) or a Head Start program under the Head
Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.).
‘‘(4) Supporting outreach for services, in-
cluding by coordinating with existing family
strengthening services such as home visiting
and other early intervention programs.
‘‘(5) Providing, promoting the development
or enhancement of, or connecting families
to, core services that include—
‘‘(A) parenting support and parent edu-
cation programs, including services that help
parents and other caregivers support chil-
dren’s development;
‘‘(B) parent leadership skills development
programs that support parents’ personal
growth as leaders in their families and com-
munities;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3987
May 20, 2019
‘‘(C) mutual support groups for parents,
children, and parent partners;
‘‘(D) respite and crisis care; and
‘‘(E) referrals to optional community and
social services, including—
‘‘(i) domestic violence services;
‘‘(ii) screening and referrals to early inter-
vention;
‘‘(iii) voluntary home visiting programs;
‘‘(iv) health and mental health services, in-
cluding referrals for information on the
State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.);
‘‘(v) early care and learning programs in-
cluding child care and Head Start programs
and Early Head Start programs under the
Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.);
‘‘(vi) nutrition programs, including the
special supplemental nutrition program for
women, infants, and children established
under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of
1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786) and the supplemental nu-
trition assistance program established under
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C.
2011 et seq.);
‘‘(vii) education and workforce develop-
ment programs, including adult literacy,
child development, wellness, and family so-
cioeconomic mobility programs; and
‘‘(viii) services and supports to meet the
needs of families with children or caregivers
with disabilities, such as early intervention
services for infants and toddlers with disabil-
ities and their families, as early intervention
services are defined in section 632 of the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act (20
U.S.C. 1432).
‘‘(6) Providing leadership in mobilizing
local public and private resources to support
the provision of community-based family
strengthening services designed to prevent
child abuse and neglect.
‘‘(7) Developing and maintaining meaning-
ful partnerships with parents relating to the
development, operation, evaluation, and
oversight of the programs and services.
‘‘(8) Coordinating with other community-
based family strengthening services designed
to prevent child abuse and neglect in the de-
velopment, operation, and expansion of net-
works where appropriate.
‘‘(d) PRIORITY.—When awarding grants, a
lead entity shall give priority to effective
community-based efforts that serve low-in-
come communities and are focused on com-
prehensive approaches to serving young par-
ents or parents with young children.’’.
SEC. 206. PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
Section 206 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116f) is
amended—
(1) in paragraphs (1), (5), (6), and (8), by
striking ‘‘community-based and prevention-
focused programs and activities designed to
strengthen and support families’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘community-based family strengthening
services designed’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘meets’’
and inserting ‘‘meet’’;
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘including
core and optional services as described in
section 202’’;
(4) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(3) shall demonstrate how they have ad-
dressed unmet needs identified by the inven-
tory required under section 204;’’.
(5) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) shall describe the number of families
served, including families with children or
caregivers with disabilities, and the involve-
ment of a diverse representation of families
in the design, operation, and evaluation of
both community-based family strengthening
services and networks of such services;’’;
(6) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(7) shall describe—
‘‘(A) the number of programs funded
disaggregated by urban, suburban, and rural
community type;
‘‘(B) the number of children and families
served under each such program
disaggregated by urban, suburban, and rural
community type; and
‘‘(C) the number of programs that partner
with outside entities and the services such
outside entities provide;’’;
(7) in paragraph (8)—
(A) by striking ‘‘leadership of’’ and insert
‘‘partnership with’’; and
(B) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(8) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) shall describe the extent to which
there is evidence to support the effectiveness
of activities conducted under this title for
the program’s intended purpose, or, in in-
stances where such evidence is not available,
shall describe barriers and challenges to de-
veloping evidence of effectiveness.’’.
SEC. 207. NATIONAL NETWORK FOR COMMUNITY-
BASED FAMILY RESOURCE PRO-
GRAMS.
Section 207 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116g) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘such sums as may be nec-
essary’’ and inserting ‘‘not more than 5 per-
cent’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘commu-
nity-based and prevention-focused programs
and activities designed to strengthen and
support families’’ and inserting ‘‘commu-
nity-based family strengthening services de-
signed’’.
SEC. 208. DEFINITIONS.
Section 208 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116h) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as paragraphs (2) and (1), respectively, and
transferring paragraph (1) as redesignated to
appear before paragraph (2) as redesignated;
and
(2) by striking paragraph (1) (as so redesig-
nated) and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) COMMUNITY-BASED FAMILY STRENGTH-
ENING SERVICES.—The term ‘community-
based family strengthening services’ in-
cludes organizations such as family resource
programs, family support programs, vol-
untary home visiting programs, respite care
services, parenting education, mutual sup-
port groups for parents, children, parent
partner programs, and other community pro-
grams or networks of such programs that
provide activities that are designed to pre-
vent child abuse and neglect.’’.
SEC. 209. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42
U.S.C. 5116 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating section 209 as section
210; and
(2) by inserting after section 208 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 209. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘Nothing in this title shall be construed to
prohibit grandparents, kinship care pro-
viders, foster parents, adoptive parents, or
any other individual in a parenting role from
receiving or participating in services and
programs under this title.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act is amended
by striking the item relating to section 209
and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 209. Rule of construction.
‘‘Sec. 210. Authorization of appropriations.’’.
SEC. 210. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 210 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116 et seq.), as
redesignated by section 209 of this Act, is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘There are’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There are’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘to carry out’’ through ‘‘fis-
cal year 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘to carry out
this title $270,000,000 for fiscal year 2020’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘2011 through 2015’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) TREATMENT OF NON-FEDERAL FUNDS IN
CERTAIN FISCAL YEARS.—For any fiscal year
for which the amount appropriated under
subsection (a) exceeds the amount appro-
priated under such subsection for fiscal year
2019, the Secretary shall consider non-Fed-
eral funds and in-kind contributions as part
of the State contribution for the activities
specified in section 204(4).’’.
SEC. 211. STUDY AND REPORT.
(a) STUDY RELATING TO NEW PREVENTION
PROGRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall complete a study,
using data reported by States to the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services under
section 206 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116f), as
amended by this Act—
(A) to determine how many families and
children in the first 3 years after the date of
the enactment of this Act are served annu-
ally through programs funded under title II
of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116 et seq.); and
(B) to compare the number of such families
and children served annually in the first 3
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act to the number of such families and chil-
dren served in fiscal year 2019.
(2) CONTENTS.—The study required under
paragraph (1) shall include the following for
each of the first 3 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act:
(A) An examination of how many families
received evidence-based programming under
title II of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5116 et seq.).
(B) An examination of the extent to which
local programs conduct evaluations using
funds provided under such title and the find-
ings of such evaluations.
(C) An examination of whether findings of
effectiveness in evaluation studies vary by
urban, suburban, or rural community type.
(D) An examination of whether programs
partnering with other entities are more ef-
fective than those that do not partner with
other entities.
(E) An examination of barriers to imple-
ment evidence-based programming or to con-
duct evaluations in instances where such ac-
tivities do not occur.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 4 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Education and
Labor of the House of Representatives a re-
port that contains the results of the study
conducted under paragraph (1).
TITLE III—ADOPTION OPPORTUNITIES
SEC. 301. PURPOSE.
Section 201 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of
1978 (42 U.S.C. 5111) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION
OF PURPOSE’’ and inserting ‘‘PURPOSE’’;
(2) by striking subsection (a); and
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—’’;
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘sexual and gender minority
youth’’ after ‘‘particularly older children,
minority children,’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3988 May 20, 2019
(C) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘services
and,’’ after ‘‘post-legal adoption’’.
SEC. 302. REPORT AND GUIDANCE ON UNREGU-
LATED CUSTODY TRANSFERS.
The Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment and Adoption Reform Act of 1978 (42
U.S.C. 5111 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after section 201 the following:
‘‘SEC. 202. REPORT AND GUIDANCE ON UNREGU-
LATED CUSTODY TRANSFERS.
‘‘(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that:
‘‘(1) Some adopted children may be at risk
of experiencing an unregulated custody
transfer because the challenges associated
with adoptions (including the child’s mental
health needs and the difficulties many fami-
lies face in acquiring support services) may
lead families to seek out unregulated cus-
tody transfers.
‘‘(2) Some adopted children experience
trauma, and the disruption and placement in
another home by unregulated custody trans-
fer creates additional trauma and instability
for children.
‘‘(3) Children who experience an unregu-
lated custody transfer may be placed with
families who have not completed required
child welfare or criminal background checks
or clearances.
‘‘(4) Social services agencies and courts are
often unaware of the placement of children
through unregulated custody transfer and
therefore do not conduct assessments on the
child’s safety and well-being in such place-
ments.
‘‘(5) Such lack of placement oversight
places a child at risk for future abuse and in-
creases the chance that the child may expe-
rience—
‘‘(A) abuse or neglect;
‘‘(B) contact with unsafe adults or youth;
and
‘‘(C) exposure to unsafe or isolated envi-
ronments.
‘‘(6) The caregivers with whom a child is
placed through unregulated custody transfer
often have no legal responsibility with re-
spect to such child, placing the child at risk
for additional unregulated custody transfers.
‘‘(7) Such caregivers also may not have
complete records with respect to such child,
including the child’s birth, medical, or immi-
gration records.
‘‘(8) A child adopted through intercountry
adoption may be at risk of not acquiring
United States citizenship if an unregulated
custody transfer occurs before the adoptive
parents complete all necessary steps to final-
ize the adoption of such child.
‘‘(9) Engaging in, or offering to engage in,
unregulated custody transfer places children
at risk of harm.
‘‘(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall provide to the Committee on
Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives, the
Committee on Finance of the Senate, and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions of the Senate a report on un-
regulated custody transfers of children, in-
cluding of adopted children.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall include—
‘‘(A) the causes, methods, and characteris-
tics of unregulated custody transfers, includ-
ing the use of social media and the internet;
‘‘(B) the effects of unregulated custody
transfers on children, including the lack of
assessment of a child’s safety and well-being
by social services agencies and courts due to
such unregulated custody transfer;
‘‘(C) the prevalence of unregulated custody
transfers within each State and across all
States; and
‘‘(D) recommended policies for preventing,
identifying, and responding to unregulated
custody transfers, including of adopted chil-
dren, that include—
‘‘(i) amendments to Federal and State law
to address unregulated custody transfers;
‘‘(ii) amendments to child protection prac-
tices to address unregulated custody trans-
fers; and
‘‘(iii) methods of providing the public in-
formation regarding adoption and child pro-
tection.
‘‘(c) GUIDANCE TO STATES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date specified in subsection (b)(1),
the Secretary shall issue guidance and tech-
nical assistance to States related to pre-
venting, identifying, and responding to un-
regulated custody transfers, including of
adopted children.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The guidance required
under paragraph (1) shall include—
‘‘(A) education materials related to pre-
venting, identifying, and responding to un-
regulated custody transfers for employees of
State, local, and Tribal agencies that pro-
vide child welfare services;
‘‘(B) guidance on appropriate pre-adoption
education and post-adoption services for do-
mestic and international adoptive families
to promote child permanency; and
‘‘(C) the assistance available through the
National Resource Center for Special Needs
Adoption under section 203(b)(9).
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, and any commonwealth, territory, or
possession of the United States.
‘‘(2) UNREGULATED CUSTODY TRANSFER.—
The term ‘unregulated custody transfer’
means the abandonment of a child, by the
child’s parent, legal guardian, or a person or
entity acting on behalf, and with the con-
sent, of such parent or guardian—
‘‘(A) by placing a child with a person who
is not—
‘‘(i) the child’s parent, step–parent, grand-
parent, adult sibling, legal guardian, or
other adult relative;
‘‘(ii) a friend of the family who is an adult
and with whom the child is familiar; or
‘‘(iii) a member of the Federally recognized
Indian tribe of which the child is also a
member;
‘‘(B) with the intent of severing the rela-
tionship between the child and the parent or
guardian of such child; and
‘‘(C) without—
‘‘(i) reasonably ensuring the safety of the
child and permanency of the placement of
the child, including by conducting an official
home study, background check, and super-
vision; and
‘‘(ii) transferring the legal rights and re-
sponsibilities of parenthood or guardianship
under applicable Federal and State law to a
person described in subparagraph (A).’’.
SEC. 303. INFORMATION AND SERVICES.
(a) NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER FOR SPE-
CIAL NEEDS ADOPTION.—Section 203(b)(9) of
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
and Adoption Reform Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C.
5113(b)(9)) is amended by inserting ‘‘not later
than 2 years after the date of the enactment
of the Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, establish and’’ before ‘‘main-
tain’’.
(b) PLACEMENT WITH ADOPTIVE FAMILIES.—
Section 203(b)(11)(C) of the Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment and Adoption Reform
Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 5113(b)(11)(C)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘such children’’ and inserting
‘‘the children and youth described in the
matter preceding paragraph (1) of section
201’’.
(c) PRE-ADOPTION SERVICES.—Section
203(c)(1) of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 1978
(42 U.S.C. 5113(c)(1)) is amended by striking
‘‘post’’ and inserting ‘‘pre- and post-’’.
(d) SERVICES.—Section 203(c)(2) of the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adop-
tion Reform Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 5113(c)(2))
is amended by inserting ‘‘and the develop-
ment of such services,’’ after ‘‘not supplant,
services’’.
(e) ELIMINATION OF BARRIERS TO ADOPTION
ACROSS JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES.—Sec-
tion 203(e)(1) of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of
1978 (42 U.S.C. 5113(e)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘with, States,’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘with States, Indian Tribes,’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, including through the
use of web-based tools such as the electronic
interstate case-processing system referred to
in section 437(g) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 629g(g))’’ before the period at the
end.
SEC. 304. STUDY AND REPORT ON SUCCESSFUL
ADOPTIONS.
Section 204 of the Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of
1978 (42 U.S.C. 5114) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 204. STUDY AND REPORT ON SUCCESSFUL
ADOPTIONS.
‘‘(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
study (directly or by grant to, or contract
with, public or private nonprofit research
agencies or organizations) on adoption out-
comes and the factors (including parental
substance use disorder) affecting those out-
comes.
‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than the date that
is 36 months after the date of the enactment
of the Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act the Secretary shall submit a
report to Congress that includes the results
of the study required under subsection (a).’’.
SEC. 305. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 205(a) of the Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment and Adoption Reform
Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 5115(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2010’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘fiscal years 2011 through
2015’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2021 through
2025’’.
TITLE IV—AMENDMENTS TO OTHER LAWS
SEC. 401. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS TO OTHER LAWS.
(a) HEAD START ACT.—Section 658E(c)(2)(L)
of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C.
9858c(c)(2)(L)) is amended by striking ‘‘will
comply with the child abuse reporting re-
quirements of section 106(b)(2)(B)(i) of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)(i))’’ and inserting
‘‘will comply with the child abuse reporting
requirements of section 106(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
(42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(A)(i))’’.
(b) VICTIMS OF CRIME ACT OF 1984.—Section
1404A of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (34
U.S.C. 20104) is amended by striking ‘‘section
109’’ and inserting ‘‘section 107’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. SCHRIER) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. COMER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.009 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3989
May 20, 2019
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Washington?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I am excited that
the House of Representatives is consid-
ering this bill, Stronger CAPTA, today,
a bipartisan bill I urge my colleagues
to support.
Stronger CAPTA is a reauthorization
of the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, CAPTA, that will re-
vamp already existing Federal supports
for preventing child abuse and neglect.
It has been 9 years since Congress
comprehensively reauthorized CAPTA.
This Congress, I partnered with several
of my Democratic and Republican col-
leagues to introduce the bipartisan
Stronger CAPTA, which would help
States and communities address the re-
cent rise in cases of child neglect,
abuse, and death, many of which can be
linked to an increasing number of par-
ents affected by substance abuse and
the opioid crisis.
Stronger CAPTA will overhaul a pre-
vention system that has always been
overworked and underresourced. In
Washington State, only 11 of about 125
programs that apply receive funding.
The support my State gets from the
Federal Government is about 50 cents
per child per year.
b 1700
Stronger CAPTA will increase fund-
ing so that more programs can ensure
families in need receive their services.
It will also create a local system in
which families who are seeking serv-
ices but have not yet been identified as
needing those services can receive the
help they need.
Currently, a family who knows they
need help can’t get it unless something
bad happens to the child. Parents are
the most informed regarding the needs
of their children, and we should not
punish families who are proactively
seeking assistance. Stronger CAPTA
will help these families before harm oc-
curs.
I am hopeful that, because of this
legislation, Washington State will
build on their efforts to support new
mothers with parenting, help families
teach social-emotional and early lit-
eracy skills, expand programs for Trib-
al families, counsel families and chil-
dren exposed to violence and homeless-
ness, and expand the countless other
programs in place to help families
seeking support.
I am also excited that the bill I intro-
duced with my Republican colleague
STEVE STIVERS, the Early Detection to
Stop Infant Abuse and Prevent Fatali-
ties Act, is included in this legislation.
With passage of Stronger CAPTA,
States will be able to help medical pro-
fessionals, early childhood educators,
and others better identify early signs
of infant abuse and neglect that might
look harmless to the untrained eye.
As a pediatrician, I take care of the
children and families we are talking
about today. I want every parent to
have the support they need to parent
well. My bill will go a long way to
making sure every family gets the sup-
port they need.
I thank my colleagues, Representa-
tives TRAHAN, JOHNSON, STEFANIK,
BONAMICI, and COMER; Chairman SCOTT,
and Ranking Member FOXX, for co-
leading this legislation with me.
The well-being of children and their
opportunity to grow up in stable, lov-
ing environments will be improved
with the passage of Stronger CAPTA.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, as lead Republican
for the Subcommittee on Civil Rights
and Human Services, and as its lead
Republican sponsor, I am happy to rise
today to celebrate this bipartisan legis-
lation, the Stronger Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment Act. This legis-
lation will help target, prevent, and
treat child abuse and neglect.
The statistics of children in the
United States who are abused and/or
neglected are staggering. In 2016, child
protective services determined approxi-
mately 676,000 children to be victims of
abuse or neglect. This is simply heart-
breaking.
CAPTA was originally enacted in 1974
to support the development of pro-
grams aimed at prevention, assess-
ment, investigation, prosecution, and
treatment of child abuse and neglect.
Stronger CAPTA seeks to continue this
important work while putting more
emphasis on prevention so that abuse
and neglect can be stopped before they
happen.
Prevention takes a holistic approach
to combating neglect and abuse by fo-
cusing on strengthening communities
and educating parents and caregivers
on how to keep their children safe. In
addition to bolstering our prevention
efforts, Stronger CAPTA streamlines
current assurances and requirements
so States can focus on serving and pro-
viding treatment to children rather
than spending more time filling out pa-
perwork.
State agencies benefit from increased
flexibility that allows them to respond
more swiftly and effectively to reports
of abuse and neglect. We must equip
States with the tools and resources
needed to address maltreatment and
keep kids safe.
I am very proud of the hard work
done on both sides of the aisle to cham-
pion this bipartisan legislation aimed
at protecting some of our most vulner-
able citizens.
Keeping America’s children safe from
the detrimental harm of abuse and ne-
glect is something we can all agree is
paramount, and I am glad that we
could work together on such an impor-
tant initiative.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of H.R. 2480, the bipar-
tisan Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act.
Child maltreatment is a public
health crisis and a threat to our coun-
try. Although we have made progress
toward reducing cases of child mal-
treatment since passage of the original
CAPTA, in recent years, the rates at
which children are abused and ne-
glected have steadily increased. Evi-
dence suggests that the opioid crisis is
responsible for new challenges in pro-
tecting vulnerable children.
Stronger CAPTA is an important
step toward making sure that all chil-
dren grow up in safe and healthy envi-
ronments that allow them to reach
their full potential.
The bill will strengthen Federal in-
vestments in community-based preven-
tion services so families across the
country can receive help before chil-
dren suffer.
It will build networks of wraparound
services that lower the risk of child
maltreatment by helping families navi-
gate complex health, education, and fi-
nancial hardships.
It will seek to reduce rates of child
maltreatment exacerbated by the
opioid crisis by supporting the develop-
ment of best practices and strategies.
Importantly, the bill will streamline
communication between and among
States so child protection agencies
across the country can work together
and prevent cases of maltreatment
from slipping through the cracks, no
matter where they occur.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentlewoman from Oregon an
additional 15 seconds.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman SCOTT and Ranking
Member FOXX but also especially
Ranking Member COMER of the sub-
committee and Representatives
SCHRIER, TRAHAN, JOHNSON, and
STEFANIK for their leadership.
I strongly urge all my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support this
bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. SMUCKER), ranking mem-
ber of the Subcommittee on Higher
Education and Workforce Investment.
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleagues for the work that
they have done on this bill, and I rise
today in strong support of the Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act.
Not only will this bill strengthen our
laws to help keep children safe, but
this legislation also makes needed in-
vestments to help ensure children im-
pacted by the opioid epidemic do not
face abuse, maltreatment, and neglect.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.026 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3990 May 20, 2019
Every one of our communities, sadly,
has been impacted by the opioid epi-
demic. Sadly, our children are suf-
fering the consequences.
This bill includes a bipartisan
amendment that I was pleased to offer
in committee with Representative
UNDERWOOD to study and learn more
about how parental substance abuse af-
fects the outcomes on adoption. This
study is necessary to help States better
serve children in need, and I was proud
to see it unanimously adopted.
Last Congress, I introduced legisla-
tion that was passed to reduce known
barriers for foster placement, which
was signed into law. This amendment
builds on that important work to help
States detect additional barriers to
better serve children caught up by the
opioid epidemic.
Madam Speaker, child abuse is not a
partisan issue, and I am proud of the
strong bipartisan work my colleagues
have done on the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor to strengthen preven-
tion efforts.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL).
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of my colleague
Representative SCHRIER’s Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act, which increases funding for under-
resourced child protection agencies.
I am particularly proud that we
could reach bipartisan agreement on a
top priority of mine in this bill, which
is ensuring that State plans of safe
care for infants exposed to substances
in utero do not unfairly target preg-
nant women who need to remain on
medication in order to stay healthy.
Prior to 2016, States only developed
plans of safe care for infants exposed to
illegal substances in utero. It became
clear during the opioid crisis that we
needed to look at the abuse of legal
drugs during pregnancy.
In 2016, Congress updated the law to
ensure that all infants and families im-
pacted by substance abuse could get
the care they need. Unfortunately, as
an unintended consequence, some
States are now referring all infants ex-
posed to substances in utero to child
protective services and opening CPS
investigations even if the mom was
using the substance in a treatment
plan that was prescribed by a doctor.
In some States, new mothers using
antidepressants during pregnancy are
being referred automatically to CPS
for investigation. This is not only un-
just but also a waste of limited re-
sources.
Untreated depression during preg-
nancy is linked to premature birth, low
birth weight, and developmental prob-
lems, not to mention increased risk of
postpartum depression and poor health
for pregnant mothers.
There is already incredible stigma
that prevents people from seeking
treatment for mental illness, with
communities of color facing greater
barriers to that treatment.
What is more, mothers who made a
safe choice to transition to medica-
tion-assisted treatment for opioid
withdrawal shouldn’t automatically be
investigated by CPS.
I am so grateful to Representative
GUTHRIE on the other side of the aisle,
the chair and ranking member, and ex-
perts in pediatric medicine for finding
a solution. This bill clarifies that CPS
will only undertake an investigation
when the findings of a family assess-
ment warrant it, not when moms are
simply following their doctors’ advice
to stay healthy.
Stronger CAPTA will prevent unnec-
essary trauma to families.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. TAYLOR).
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 2480, the
Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, which includes my pro-
vision asking for a study of forced child
marriages in the United States.
It is shocking to think that the
Tahirih Justice Center estimates that,
between 2000 and 2015, more than 207,000
children were married in this country.
In Texas alone, 40,000 minors were mar-
ried between 2000 and 2014.
I hope we can all agree that marriage
should be between consenting individ-
uals and that children should not be
married without their consent.
I was proud, on a bipartisan basis in
Texas, to end forced child marriages in
Texas. I know that States, red and
blue, have addressed this problem and
solved it. But we need to work harder
here in the United States Congress.
I am grateful to my colleague from
Washington for accepting this amend-
ment to work on studying forced child
marriage in the 43 States that have not
adjusted their laws to end what I would
consider to be a barbaric practice.
I look forward to supporting this bill.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH).
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
rise today in support of the Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act.
Children are our future teachers, doc-
tors, police officers, and Members of
Congress. It is our responsibility to en-
sure that they are able to live, learn,
and grow in a safe environment.
My home State of Georgia ranked
fifth in the Nation for the highest num-
ber of child abuse-related deaths in 2017
and third for calls to hotlines to report
abuse.
I was proud to introduce an amend-
ment in the Education and Labor Com-
mittee with my colleague, the gentle-
woman from New York (Ms. STEFANIK),
that would establish a national child
abuse hotline.
Stronger CAPTA is bipartisan legis-
lation that will provide critical protec-
tions and resources to families and
children across our Nation to prevent
and end child abuse. Together, we can
and we should ensure the safety of our
Nation’s children.
I encourage my colleagues to support
this bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. WRIGHT).
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, today
I rise in support of H.R. 2480. I thank
all of those who had any part in draft-
ing this important legislation.
The Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act takes an important
step in improving the lives of children
in every State.
This bill authorizes important pro-
grams that will provide essential sup-
port for child protective service sys-
tems and communities fighting against
child abuse and neglect.
This legislation before us comes at a
time when State child protective serv-
ices around the country are seeing re-
sources increasingly strained due to
the opioid crisis. H.R. 2480 provides the
resources and reforms needed for
States to combat this crisis and ensure
that abused or neglected children are
getting the help they deserve.
Under this bill, States and local pro-
viders can focus on serving children
and families by streamlining duplica-
tive and burdensome paperwork re-
quirements. It also ensures community
and parent involvement in the plan-
ning, implementation, and evaluation
of prevention services.
I am pleased that the bill before us
today includes an amendment that I
introduced with my colleague from
Maryland (Mr. TRONE). The amendment
ensures those working in the child wel-
fare system are of the highest profes-
sional quality.
As has been said before, this work is
critical. We want to ensure these peo-
ple are ready to tackle this challenging
work, and States need to know how to
recruit the right people for the job.
The child welfare system contains
some of the most vulnerable citizens in
our society, which makes it so impor-
tant that those working in the field get
the education and professional develop-
ment that is needed.
H.R. 2480 will allow State and local
providers to better serve the almost
700,000 children who are victims of
abuse and neglect every year.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
b 1715
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of this bipartisan
bill. I thank Representative SCHRIER,
an amazing woman, pediatrician, and
fellow member of our freshman class,
for leading this bipartisan effort.
Preventing child abuse is an issue
that is front-of-mind for our commu-
nity in Illinois’ 14th District, with the
recent death of AJ Freund, a 5-year-old
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.028 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3991
May 20, 2019
boy from Crystal Lake, who was trag-
ically killed.
AJ’s heartbreaking death was a re-
sult of a system that failed him. I am
committed to honoring his life with ac-
tion.
Child abuse prevention is an issue
that calls for big policy solutions, and
this bill offers those, as my colleagues
have outlined.
Rates of child abuse have recently
been rising as the opioid epidemic has
devastated communities across the
country; and children who are adopted
after being removed from homes with
substance abuse issues have special
kinds of trauma.
My bipartisan amendment, with Rep-
resentative SMUCKER, looks out for
those kids. It would allow us to track
their outcomes and ensure we have the
information we need to make informed
policy decisions to best serve them and
set them up for success.
With my amendment, a Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act will help keep kids safe and make
sure families get the services they
need. I encourage my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support this
bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. STEFANIK).
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of the
Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act.
In 2016, there were 4.1 million refer-
rals to child protective services. Far
too many children experience some
form of abuse or neglect in their life-
time, a sad reality that deserves our
utmost attention.
The Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act strengthens the
original law in order to further protect
our children. The bill provides for evi-
dence-based support for the victims of
abuse, establishes national reporting
requirements to more accurately track
child abuse trends, expands research
into child welfare, and improves the
grant funding process.
As Representatives in Congress, pro-
tecting our children and most vulner-
able members of society is an obliga-
tion we each take very seriously. This
issue rises above party lines and, as an
original cosponsor of the bill, I am
grateful for my colleagues coming to-
gether to support this important legis-
lation.
I am also proud that this bill in-
cludes an amendment that I introduced
with my colleague across the aisle,
Mrs. MCBATH, to establish a National
Abuse Hotline. This amendment offers
grant funding to nonprofit entities to
establish and maintain a 24-hour, na-
tional, toll-free, abuse hotline that
gives at risk individuals the oppor-
tunity to report instances of abuse and
receive immediate assistance without
fear of retribution.
I thank my colleagues for the unani-
mous support of this amendment, and I
encourage all of my colleagues today
to support this lifesaving bill.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. TRONE).
Mr. TRONE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to show my support for a Strong-
er CAPTA.
The opioid crisis is devastating com-
munities across the country, and we
are seeing rising rates of child abuse
and neglect as a result of this crisis. In
order to reverse these trends, we must
invest in smart primary prevention ef-
forts like those included in this bill.
Passing Stronger CAPTA will mean
stronger networks of prevention serv-
ices that will benefit children and com-
munities for decades to come.
It will also mean a stronger child
welfare workforce. Some States see a
40 percent annual turnover rate among
the child welfare workforce. We must
do more to equip our workers to better
serve our most vulnerable children and
families.
That is why I am pleased this bill in-
cludes a provision I authored with the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT),
my colleague, that will help develop
and retain a high-quality workforce in
the child welfare system.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote from my col-
leagues on this commonsense bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX), ranking
member of the Education and Labor
Committee.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I thank my colleague from
Kentucky for yielding, and for han-
dling this bill today. I also commend
my friend, Representative COMER, for
his outstanding leadership of the Re-
publicans on the Civil Rights and
Human Services Subcommittee, and
for his leadership on this bill.
I have served on the committee under
its different names for a long time. It
was a great honor to serve as the Com-
mittee’s chairwoman during the last
Congress, and as Republican leader
during this Congress because, from this
perspective, I have seen just how much
we are able to get done together that
doesn’t always capture the attention of
the rest of this body or the public.
It should be a great encouragement
to all of us that when it comes to serv-
ing the most vulnerable Americans,
children and youth, Republicans and
Democrats on the Education and Labor
Committee have been able to come to-
gether on numerous occasions and
produce bipartisan legislation that is
forward-looking and aims at preven-
tion first.
We did this last Congress with the
Juvenile Justice Reform Act and with
the reauthorization of the Missing
Children’s Assistance Act.
In a perfect world, we would not need
laws addressing child abuse. We cer-
tainly would not need stronger laws ad-
dressing child abuse. But this world is
far from perfect.
Today, members of the Education
and Labor Committee have brought be-
fore the House an update to the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
which, since 1974, has helped States
combat child abuse and neglect. This
bill, aptly named Stronger CAPTA,
looks to those who spend their profes-
sional and personal lives fulfilling
what can only be described as a deep
calling to stand between children and
abuse, to lead us forward in our efforts
to serve families.
Last year, we saw a House-wide effort
to address the scourge of opioid abuse
in communities across the country. As
our committee met for hearings and
worked to determine our own contribu-
tions to that effort, the impact opioid
abuse and addiction is having on inno-
cent children came in to sharper focus.
In many ways, today’s legislation has
its roots in those informative pro-
ceedings.
This bill recognizes the power of
community in supporting at-risk fami-
lies. Leaders in Washington and in
State capitals, more than anything,
want to protect children in danger. But
it is friends, neighbors, fellow church
members, and community volunteers
who can spot real trouble, hopefully,
before it will start.
This legislation strengthens and ex-
pands coordination among local agen-
cies to help ensure families have access
to physical and mental health services,
domestic violence prevention pro-
grams, disability supports, and sub-
stance abuse treatment, when nec-
essary.
As opioid addiction continues its
hold in communities in every single
congressional district represented here,
we must look at Stronger CAPTA as
another way we can fight back.
This bill puts families and children
before bureaucracies and paperwork. I
am proud of the members of the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee on both
sides of the aisle who worked together
to bring this bill to the floor.
I urge all Members to support the
Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Nevada (Mrs. LEE).
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Madam Speak-
er, I thank Chairman SCOTT and Rank-
ing Member FOXX for their work in
bringing this bipartisan Stronger
CAPTA to the floor; as well as Rep-
resentative WATKINS, for drafting our
bipartisan amendment that ensures
that poverty alone cannot be used as
evidence of abuse and neglect.
The fight against intergenerational
poverty has many fronts, but one of the
most important things we can do is
preserve family stability for as many
children as possible. Families strug-
gling with poverty need supports to
preserve stability, not additional toxic
stress that can alter child develop-
ment.
Let me be clear: Abuse and neglect
know no socioeconomic barriers. Pov-
erty alone is neither abuse nor neglect.
I am proud that our amendment will
ensure that no child is removed from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.030 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3992 May 20, 2019
their family solely because that family
is living in poverty.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I am
so happy that H.R. 2480 includes several
noteworthy improvements to the
CAPTA Act. One is a bill that I intro-
duced last Congress called Family Pov-
erty is Not Child Neglect Act. It recog-
nizes that 75 percent of child abuse re-
ferrals are not because of malicious
abuse, but because of symptoms of pov-
erty that officials categorize as ne-
glect.
It would mandate States to treat
those conditions of poverty with serv-
ice-based remedies that will reduce the
parental separation risk disproportion-
ately affecting low-income children
and families.
I am so pleased that federally-sup-
ported distinctions between poverty-
based lack and parental maltreatment
unrelated to poverty has been added to
our Stronger CAPTA bill.
Poverty-related conditions should be
met with poverty-alleviating solutions,
not child separation.
Madam Speaker, I just want to share
my own personal story. My own experi-
ence, at age 18, was that I was sepa-
rated from my child, who was placed in
foster care, because my scholarship
money would not cover living expenses.
And while she was placed in a loving
foster home, this was traumatic for
me, and constituted an adverse child-
hood experience for my daughter.
So I am so pleased to stand here
today to say, as a witness, that we
should do everything we can to avoid
child separations, and this bill address-
es it.
Madam Speaker, I thank all of the
authors on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. WILD).
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in proud support of the Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act, a bill that will help protect chil-
dren from abuse and neglect.
Across our country, more than 670,000
children were reported to be victims of
child abuse or neglect. In 2016, almost
1,500 children in the United States died
as a result of abuse or neglect.
It is past time for us to act to pre-
vent child abuse and neglect. That is
why, earlier this month, I introduced
the Speak Up to Protect Every Abused
Kid Act. I am proud that portions of
the Speak Up Act are included in the
Stronger CAPTA Act.
The Speak Up Act would take com-
monsense steps to increase reporting of
child abuse or neglect by requiring
States to implement a consistent
standard for reporting suspected child
abuse or neglect.
The Speak Up Act would require indi-
viduals with professional responsibil-
ities over children to report suspected
child abuse and neglect directly to
State authorities. We have heard too
many stories of children being abused
or neglected and not getting the help
they need because adults do not report
it to the proper authorities.
I was proud to support the Stronger
CAPTA Act in the Education and
Labor Committee, and I am proud to
vote for it on the floor today. I urge
my colleagues to vote in support of
this important bill.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN).
b 1730
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
Stronger CAPTA, which includes provi-
sions from the Safe Home Act, which is
bipartisan legislation I introduced with
Representative DON BACON.
These provisions address unregulated
custody transfers. This is the fright-
ening practice of transferring a child,
usually an adopted child, to a stranger
outside the safeguards of the child wel-
fare system.
Known as rehoming, this phe-
nomenon occurs when parents lack the
supports to meet their children’s needs
and, instead, place them with individ-
uals who haven’t undergone back-
ground checks, home studies or super-
vision, where they are at risk of fur-
ther abuse.
Unregulated custody transfers are a
form of child abuse and neglect, and
Stronger CAPTA removes any ambi-
guity that might prevent child welfare
agencies from being able to investigate
these cases. So it will give States the
tools to prevent, identify, and respond
to such dangers so that they can safe-
guard our most vulnerable youth.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
woman SCHRIER for her leadership, and
I urge my colleagues to support
Stronger CAPTA.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), my colleague and
the chair of our committee.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I thank Dr. SCHRIER and Mr.
COMER for sponsoring this important
legislation.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Stronger Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment Act, or Strong-
er CAPTA.
Congress has a vital role in helping
States protect children from physical
injury and emotional trauma associ-
ated with child abuse and neglect.
Stronger CAPTA will fulfill that role
by increasing investment in both treat-
ment of child abuse and neglect, and
programs designed to prevent mal-
treatment from happening in the first
place.
Specifically, this bill would provide
States with resources to strengthen
prevention programs, invest in child
protective service agencies, and
streamline communication between
those agencies across this country. It
would also build upon the bipartisan
commitment to keep families together
when it is in the best interests of the
child.
Last Saturday, May 18, was the 1-
year anniversary of the tragic death of
Heaven Watkins, an 11-year-old girl in
my community who lost her life be-
cause of child abuse. Had the reforms
in this bill been in place, Heaven’s
death could have been prevented.
Specifically, investing in prevention
strategies and improving the collection
and sharing of vital information can
help children like Heaven from slipping
through the cracks.
Madam Speaker, I would like to
thank, again, Dr. SCHRIER and Mr.
COMER for their leadership, as well as
Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Ms. STEFANIK, and, of course, the
ranking member, Dr. FOXX, for their
work in bringing this bill to the floor.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support Stronger CAPTA.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I just want to con-
clude by again thanking everyone for
working together in a bipartisan way
on this bill. This is very important.
This is something that we can do to
prove Congress can work together, can
come together on issues of the utmost
importance, and preventing child abuse
and neglect is an issue that is bipar-
tisan and of the utmost importance.
This bill streamlines the process. It
does just exactly the things that the
States have asked us to do with the
bill.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to vote in favor of this bill, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following: first, a letter
from the National Child Abuse Coali-
tion supporting H.R. 2480, which praises
the legislation’s improvements to
interstate data sharing and increases
to authorization levels; second, a letter
from the American Academy of Pediat-
rics endorsing H.R. 2480, which praises
the legislation’s public health focus;
and third, a letter from the American
Psychological Association supporting
H.R. 2480, which praises this legisla-
tion’s improvement to research on
helping families experiencing sub-
stance use disorders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.031 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3993
May 20, 2019
NATIONAL CHILD ABUSE COALITION,
May 7, 2019.
Chairman BOBBY SCOTT,
House Committee on Education and Labor,
Washington, DC.
Representative KIM SCHRIER,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member VIRGINIA FOXX,
House Committee on Education and Labor,
Washington, DC.
Representative JAMES COMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT, RANKING MEMBER
FOXX, REPRESENTATIVE SCHRIER, and REP-
RESENTATIVE COMER: On behalf of the Na-
tional Child Abuse Coalition, thank you for
your outstanding leadership on the Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act.
The reforms and funding levels you have pro-
posed in this legislation are extremely im-
portant, and we strongly encourage all mem-
bers of the House Committee on Education
and Labor to support its passage. If appro-
priately funded, this legislation will reduce
child abuse and neglect, strengthen families
through community-driven solutions, im-
prove local responses to child trauma, in-
crease states’ child safety tools, and bring
much improved data and transparency
around abuse and neglect fatalities so that
states can make tailored reforms to prevent
future fatalities. Though some changes to
the bill are still needed, we look forward to
continuing to work with you as the legisla-
tion moves forward.
In particular, we strongly support the fol-
lowing elements of the proposal:
Authorization levels. Meaningful increases
to CAPTA funding are essential to ensure
this bill’s important reforms will make chil-
dren safer and families stronger. For too
long, Congress has sought key improvements
to this law but has failed to appropriate the
funds that would allow states to successfully
implement them. The Coalition believes at
least $500 million for each title is critical,
but we recognize the authorization levels in
this legislation reflect your strong commit-
ment to keeping children from being
harmed. We were very disappointed to learn
that the House Labor-H bill released today
does not reflect the important investments
you have included in the Stronger Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act. We
look forward to working with you to ensure
the funding levels included in this legisla-
tion are executed in the appropriations proc-
ess. The reforms this Committee envisions
for CAPTA will not be realized without ro-
bust increases to funding.
Emphasis on family strengthening. We also
applaud the bill’s focus on family strength-
ening, a clear reflection of what we know to
be true: that healthy and strong families are
key to ensuring children are healthy and can
achieve their full potential. The Stronger
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
reflects the entire continuum of supports to
families, starting with primary prevention
at the heart of Title II and extending into
the identification and treatment of abuse
and neglect in Title I. All are essential to
creating systems of support that both pre-
vent child abuse and neglect and keep fami-
lies together whenever possible, and also en-
sure timely and appropriate action when
child abuse or neglect does occur.
Improvements to child protection systems
to reduce child fatalities and near fatalities
from abuse and neglect. Experts estimate
nearly 3,000 children die every year from
child abuse and neglect. Without proper data
and disclosure, efforts to reduce these fatali-
ties will not succeed. The legislation’s re-
forms in Section 103 to develop uniform
standards for tracking and reporting of child
fatalities resulting from maltreatment are
absolutely essential to making sure federal,
state, and local governments have the infor-
mation they need to keep more vulnerable
children alive. The bill’s reforms to clarify
and strengthen disclosure about fatalities
and near fatalities in Section 106 are also
very important to these efforts. Both of
these reforms were proposed by the Commis-
sion to Eliminate Child Abuse and Neglect
Fatalities, a bipartisan Commission devised
by Congress to put an end to these tragic
child deaths. We also commend you for tak-
ing steps to improve interstate data ex-
change.
Thoughtful attention to children and fami-
lies impacted by substance use disorders. As
the national rise in substance use disorders
continues to drive more children and fami-
lies into the child welfare system, we appre-
ciate the thoughtful attention paid by the
Committee to these issues. In particular, the
bill incorporates new language reflecting the
intersection between child abuse and neglect
and substance use disorders, the needs of
children and families with substance use dis-
orders, and how critical collaboration across
multiple public and community partners is
to effectively connect families to needed
treatment services.
Improved transparency, accountability,
and focus on key priorities. We greatly ap-
preciate the legislation’s much-needed
streamlining and updating of CAPTA in
ways that will prioritize key needs from the
experts working in states and communities,
and that will improve transparency and ac-
countability to ensure better implementa-
tion of the law. The revisions to Sections 104
and 105 reflect a more focused approach to
key priorities in child welfare. The use of
funds in Section 106 presents a much more
cohesive and coordinated vision to help
states in their efforts to prevent, treat, and
intervene in child abuse and neglect. The
bill’s revisions specifying the state mandates
in Section 106 will bring much-needed im-
provements to CAPTA’s transparency and
accountability.
Finally, as the bill advances, we look for-
ward to working with you so that the fol-
lowing provisions in Title II strike the right
balance to ensure effective use of taxpayer
dollars, reduce bureaucratic requirements
for states, and reflect the importance of a
universal, or public health, approach to pri-
mary prevention:
Administrative cap. Thank you for work-
ing with the Coalition and its members on
this provision in between introduction and
mark-up. We appreciate your willingness to
respond to deep concerns from the states
that the initial proposed cap would hinder
states’ ability to carry out the provisions of
the legislation. CBCAP lead agencies are
committed to running their programs effi-
ciently, and most of them operate as part of
larger agencies and do not always control
what shared expenses are charged to them.
We heard from numerous CBCAP lead agen-
cies that a four percent cap would greatly
limit their ability to provide adequate over-
sight and support in implementing the bold
vision that is proposed in the underlying leg-
islation. As the legislation advances, we
hope to work with you to ensure that the ad-
ministrative cap is consistent with guidance
from Office of Management and Budget re-
lated to federally negotiated indirect cost
rates for federal funding, in a manner that
does not undermine state flexibility to effec-
tively implement the law.
70/30 funding formula. The Coalition urges
Congress to simplify the Title II formula to
be entirely population based. Currently, thir-
ty percent of the funding formula is deter-
mined by a very complicated set of rules
that burdens states with onerous bureauc-
racy, reduces state flexibility, produces ac-
counting incentives that do not necessarily
reflect state investments, and creates a situ-
ation where states that might benefit the
most are the least able to leverage funds. As
a result, just three states receive nearly one-
third of the funding from this portion of the
formula. We hope that you will continue to
work with us to create a more appropriate
formula for this Title.
Public health approach. As the Committee
repeatedly heard from the witnesses at its
March 26th hearing, a universal approach to
primary prevention services is essential to
the success of Title II. Primary prevention of
child abuse is most effective when it takes a
universal approach to building protective
factors and reducing risks in families and
communities. It is important that CAPTA
strike the right balance between empha-
sizing building a universal—or public
health—approach and targeting higher risk
communities. We look forward to working
with you to make sure the final law address-
es this in the best manner possible.
Thank you for your commitment to the
prevention and treatment of child abuse and
neglect, and to improving the lives of chil-
dren and families in the United States. The
National Child Abuse Coalition and its twen-
ty-five organizational members stand ready
to continue to help support your efforts as
the critical bill moves through Congress.
Sincerely,
RUTH J. FRIEDMAN, Ph.D.,
Executive Director, National Child
Abuse Coalition.
AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS,
May 8, 2019.
Hon. KIM SCHRIER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JAMES COMER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES SCHRIER AND
COMER: On behalf of the American Academy
of Pediatrics (AAP), a non-profit profes-
sional organization of 67,000 primary care pe-
diatricians, pediatric medical sub-special-
ists, and pediatric surgical specialists dedi-
cated to the health, safety and well-being of
infants, children, adolescents, and young
adults, I am writing to share our endorse-
ment of the Stronger Child Abuse Prevention
and Treatment Act of 2019 (H.R. 2480).
As many as 25 percent of children in the
United States have experienced some form of
maltreatment. Pediatricians have long sup-
ported the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act (CAPTA) because it is an es-
sential federal policy tool for preventing and
responding to child maltreatment. CAPTA
provides critical support to states and non-
profit community-based organizations for
services to prevent and treat child abuse and
neglect. While CAPTA is critically impor-
tant, limited federal funding has historically
impeded its ability to create meaningful
change for vulnerable children and families.
This bipartisan legislation would create
major progress and support efforts to apply a
public health approach to preventing and ad-
dressing child maltreatment
The Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act would reauthorize and
strengthen CAPTA to better promote child
health and well-being. Crucially, the bill au-
thorizes $270 million for Title I state grants
and $270 million for Title II community-
based prevention and state system improve-
ment in FY2020. The AAP strongly supports
this critical funding increase, which would
improve CAPTA’s ability to create meaning-
ful change for vulnerable children and fami-
lies. In addition, the AAP supports the bill’s
restructuring of CAPTA to shift away from
lists of state assurances to intentional stra-
tegic planning. This will improve the quality
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.019 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3994 May 20, 2019
and accountability of CAPTA-financed ac-
tivities.
H.R. 2480 also shifts CAPTA toward a pub-
lic health focus on prevention of child abuse.
The bill streamlines CAPTA research topics
to focus on understudied areas such as how
to best address trauma, promote racial eq-
uity, and serve families with substance use
disorders in child welfare systems. The Acad-
emy strongly supports the inclusion of a pro-
vision to allow funds for research into ‘‘sen-
tinel’’ injuries. This will help develop prac-
tices for improving early detection and man-
agement of injuries indicative of potential
abuse, preventing further maltreatment and
fatalities.
The AAP also supports the bill’s require-
ment for the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services to create standardized defi-
nitions for fatalities and near-fatalities re-
lated to maltreatment, and to require data
tracking on those incidents. These data will
be essential to applying a public health ap-
proach to child maltreatment, enabling re-
searchers, policymakers, and practitioners
to learn how to better prevent maltreatment
from studying the most tragic outcomes.
The AAP also supports the bill’s creation
of a new interstate maltreatment registry
system. This policy would support essential
information sharing to ensure that informa-
tion about maltreatment a child has experi-
enced can cross state lines. Currently, states
do not readily share this information, which
can lead to missed opportunities to intervene
and protect children from further harm. This
is vital to protecting children and preventing
child fatalities.
Child maltreatment is a preventable but
pervasive public health problem. This bipar-
tisan legislation offers critically needed in-
novative approaches to improving child wel-
fare systems. The Academy supports this
legislation and looks forward to working
with you to advance these important poli-
cies.
Sincerely,
KYLE E. YASUDA, MD, FAAP,
President.
AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL
ASSOCIATION SERVICES, INC.,
Washington, DC, May 9, 2019.
Chairman BOBBY SCOTT,
House Committee on Education and Labor,
Washington, DC.
Representative KIM SCHRIER,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member VIRGINIA FOXX,
House Committee on Education and Labor,
Washington, DC.
Representative JAMES COMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT, RANKING MEMBER
FOXX, REPRESENTATIVE SCHRIER, and REP-
RESENTATIVE COMER: On behalf of the nearly
118,4000 members and affiliates of the Amer-
ican Psychological Association (APA), thank
you for your extraordinary leadership on
H.R. 2480, the Stronger Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment Act (Stronger CAPTA).
The reforms in this legislation, in concert
with the increased funding authorization,
are powerful steps toward preventing child
abuse and neglect and improving access to
treatment and essential services for children
and families, especially those recovering
from trauma.
APA is a scientific and professional organi-
zation representing psychology, comprised of
clinicians, researchers, educators, consult-
ants and students across the United States
and around the world. APA works to advance
the creation, communication and application
of psychological knowledge to benefit soci-
ety and improve people’s lives. Many psy-
chologists are specialized in child develop-
ment and work across research and practice
to serve children and families, including
children who have experienced abuse and ne-
glect.
The Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act takes a streamlined and fam-
ily-oriented approach to addressing key pri-
orities in child welfare. The bill thoroughly
emphasizes the importance of strengthening
families through a continuum of services and
supports including treating traumatic stress,
connecting parents and children to mental
and physical health services, programs to de-
velop parenting skills, and other core serv-
ices. Building on the Family First Preven-
tion Services Act, the new Stronger CAPTA
includes a greater focus on the prevention of
child abuse and neglect. APA is particularly
pleased to see trauma and adverse childhood
experiences highlighted across the bill’s, re-
search and technical assistance components,
as well as the state grants in both Titles I
and II. While there is much to be commended
in the proposal, APA strongly supports the
following elements:
IMPROVEMENTS IN RESEARCH AND DATA
COLLECTION
The priorities set in section 104 focus on
key areas of research to identify evidence-
based approaches that improve primary pre-
vention efforts, service delivery to children
and families, and the wellbeing of victims of
child abuse and neglect. The bill emphasizes
scalability with an eye toward better serving
more children and families, particularly
those who have experienced trauma or have
complex needs. APA strongly supports the
promotion of racial equity within the child
welfare system and the development of evi-
dence-based approaches that consider the
unique needs of rural, urban, and suburban
families. In addition to streamlining re-
search priorities, Stronger CAPTA enables
much needed improvements in transparency
and state data reporting through an update
to the state plan mandates in section 106.
REDUCING FINDINGS OF NEGLECT DUE TO
POVERTY
Consistent with APA’s Presidential Initia-
tive on Deep Poverty, APA applauds the new
provisions aimed at preventing and reducing
findings of child neglect that result from a
family’s economic insecurity. Keeping fami-
lies together, whenever possible, is critically
important for healthy development and chil-
dren should not be separated from loving
families due to poverty. As the section 106
grants suggest, families in financial need are
better served by connecting them to serv-
ices, such as nutrition assistance benefits.
ADDRESSING COMPLEX FAMILY NEEDS
GI Stronger CAPTA recognizes the chal-
lenges of adequately supporting and improv-
ing outcomes for families with complex
needs. Some of America’s most vulnerable
families are those with multiple risk factors
for child abuse and neglect, such as parents
with substance use disorders, parents who
have experienced domestic violence, care-
givers and children with disabilities, and
young parents. Across both Titles, the bill
encourages comprehensive outreach and
treatment strategies to identify and support
families with complex needs.
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS
The national epidemic of opioid use dis-
orders has driven a substantial increase in
findings of child abuse and neglect that has
resulted in more children in the child wel-
fare system. This bill acknowledges the
intersection of substance use disorders and
child maltreatment and incorporates new
provisions to encourage interdisciplinary
collaboration across community and public
partners, with the goal of ensuring families
are connected to the mental health services
and additional supports that they need.
These reforms reflect a responsiveness to
current needs identified by state and local
agencies and service providers.
INCREASED AUTHORIZATION LEVELS
Congress has long sought myriad improve-
ments to CAPTA but has historically failed
to appropriate adequate funds for proper im-
plementation. Additional funding is vital to
ensure that the meaningful reforms of this
legislation are fully realized, to the benefit
of vulnerable children and families. The sig-
nificant increases to authorization levels in
H.R. 2480 illustrate a renewed commitment
protecting children from harm. The impor-
tance of the increases proposed cannot be
overstated, and the changes must be incor-
porated into the Fiscal Year 2020 appropria-
tions legislation accordingly, so as to not
risk delays in implementation.
The Stronger Child Abuse and Prevention
and Treatment Act represents an encour-
aging federal commitment to preventing
child abuse and neglect before it occurs and
proving the best possible continuum of serv-
ices to support to children and families who
have experienced child abuse and neglect. We
welcome opportunities to work together to
strengthen and advance this legislation.
Sincerely,
KATHERINE MCGUIRE,
Chief Advocacy Officer.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, I
urge my colleagues to support H.R.
2480. I am so pleased that we worked
together in a bipartisan fashion.
Parenting is the hardest job we have,
and yet we have no training for it. This
bill ensures that parents will have the
support they need. It will save lives
and prevent child mistreatment, mal-
treatment, abuse, and neglect.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Washington
(Ms. SCHRIER) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2480, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE STABILIZATION OF IRAQ—
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 116–36)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.017 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3995
May 20, 2019
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
stabilization of Iraq that was declared
in Executive Order 13303 of May 22,
2003, is to continue in effect beyond
May 22, 2019.
Obstacles to the orderly reconstruc-
tion of Iraq, the restoration and main-
tenance of peace and security in the
country, and the development of polit-
ical, administrative, and economic in-
stitutions in Iraq continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. Therefore, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13303 with re-
spect to the stabilization of Iraq.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 20, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 36 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and:
Pass H.R. 1952; and
Agree to H. Res. 106.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTION
INFORMATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1952) to amend the Inter-
country Adoption Act of 2000 to require
the Secretary of State to report on
intercountry adoptions from countries
which have significantly reduced adop-
tion rates involving immigration to
the United States, and for other pur-
poses, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CAS-
TRO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 397, nays 0,
not voting 34, as follows:
[Roll No. 218]
YEAS—397
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—34
Abraham
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Crawford
DeLauro
Doggett
Grijalva
Herrera Beutler
Huffman
Huizenga
Kaptur
Marshall
Meng
Meuser
Pallone
Perry
Pocan
Porter
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Rush
Ryan
Schrader
Shimkus
Smith (WA)
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Tlaib
Walden
Walorski
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Young
b 1904
Mr. LEWIS changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 218.
f
CONGRESSIONAL SPORTSMEN’S
CAUCUS ANNUAL CLAY COMPETI-
TION
(Mr. VEASEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I am
here today to talk about the Annual
Clay Competition held by the Congres-
sional Sportsmen’s Caucus. I would
like to take the time now to congratu-
late my good friend, AUSTIN SCOTT,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.015 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3996 May 20, 2019
who was the captain of the Republican
team.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT).
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. VEASEY), and
encourage those of you who are sports-
men who have not had the opportunity
to join the Congressional Sportsmen’s
Caucus to join. It is a wonderful orga-
nization. It is the largest bipartisan
caucus in the House. We even allow
Senators to participate in the skeet
shoot.
Madam Speaker, I would like to rec-
ognize RICHARD HUDSON, who was our
team captain this year. I sent the B
team captain, and I look forward to
being there next year.
I want to congratulate JOHN RUTHER-
FORD, Sheriff Rutherford, who was top
gun over all, with a score of 63; JODY
HICE, who was the top Republican from
Georgia; and MARK MEADOWS, from
North Carolina was top trap. ‘‘GT’’,
GLENN THOMPSON, from Pennsylvania,
was top sporting clays.
It is a wonderful event every year. I
hope that if Members weren’t able to
join us this year, that they will be able
to join us next.
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I
really appreciate Representative
SCOTT, Representative HUDSON, and
just everybody that makes this com-
petition very special.
I would like to announce the Demo-
cratic nominees: from Northern Cali-
fornia, the top gun on the Democratic
side, with 53 shots, was MIKE THOMP-
SON; and also on the Democratic side,
top skeet, from Minnesota, was COLLIN
PETERSON.
Madam Speaker, I would like to
maybe step it up a little bit for next
year’s competition and use this time to
maybe encourage my Republican col-
leagues, because we didn’t have any
women at all participate on the Repub-
lican or the Democratic side this year.
So I am going to encourage Mr. SCOTT,
and I am going to encourage them to
recruit some women shooters. I am
going to do the same thing; and I think
that that is going to be the key to us
winning next year; so good luck.
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I just wanted Mr.
VEASEY to get a good look at the tro-
phy. We will certainly be recruiting
women next year, but we intend to
keep the trophy in good safekeeping for
a long time.
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, 2020
is right around the corner.
f
DENOUNCING FEMALE GENITAL
MUTILATION/CUTTING AS VIO-
LATING HUMAN RIGHTS OF
WOMEN AND GIRLS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 106) denouncing
female genital mutilation/cutting as a
violation of the human rights of
women and girls and urging the inter-
national community and the Federal
Government to increase efforts to
eliminate the harmful practice, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CAS-
TRO) that the House suspend the rules
and agree to the resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 393, nays 0,
not voting 38, as follows:
[Roll No. 219]
YEAS—393
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—38
Abraham
Baird
Butterfield
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Crawford
DeFazio
DeLauro
Gottheimer
Grijalva
Herrera Beutler
Huffman
Huizenga
Kaptur
Marshall
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Pallone
Perry
Pocan
Porter
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Rush
Ryan
Schrader
Shimkus
Smith (WA)
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Walden
Walorski
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Young
b 1920
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON H.R. 2839, DEPART-
MENT OF STATE FOREIGN OPER-
ATIONS, AND RELATED PRO-
GRAMS APPROPRIATIONS BILL,
2020
Mrs. LOWEY, from the Committee on
Appropriations, submitted a privileged
report (Rept. No. 116–78) on the bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.039 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3997
May 20, 2019
(H.R. 2839) making appropriations for
the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs, for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes, which was re-
ferred to the Union Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
TONKO). Pursuant to clause 1, rule XXI,
all points of order are reserved on the
bill.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, if
this unanimous consent request cannot
be entertained, I urge the Speaker and
the Majority Leader to immediately
schedule the Born-Alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
HONORING REVEREND JOSEPH L.
JONES, SR.
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Reverend Joseph L.
Jones of Monumental Baptist Church
in Jersey City, New Jersey, on the oc-
casion of his retirement.
Reverend Jones has been a part of
the Monumental Baptist Church family
for 54 years. He spent the last 23 years
as its pastor.
Reverend Jones helped grow the
church’s Sunday school, Bible school,
and prayer service programs, but he
also helped grow educational opportu-
nities in the community at large.
Under Reverend Jones’ leadership,
Monumental Baptist Church has gone
out into the community to expand ca-
reer and educational opportunities for
everyone. That is something to be
proud of.
As Reverend Jones says, he has al-
ways lived by the motto: ‘‘Do some-
thing good for someone else.’’
I am proud to represent Monumental
Baptist Church, and I ask my col-
leagues to join me in celebrating the
retirement of Reverend Joseph L.
Jones.
AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
TRANSPARENCY
(Mr. COLLINS of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, thus far, I have released several
transcripts of interviews from the Ju-
diciary Committee’s investigation into
the apparent wrongdoing at the FBI
and Justice Department. Today, I am
releasing a final collection of those
transcripts.
The American people deserve trans-
parency. They deserve to know what
transpired at the highest levels of the
FBI at the origin of the probe of Presi-
dent Trump’s campaign.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the link
www.dougcollins.house.gov/trans-
parency so the American people can re-
view the transcripts of these inter-
views.
Out of an abundance of caution, these
transcripts have a limited number of
narrowly tailored redactions relating
only to confidential sources and meth-
ods, nonpublic information about ongo-
ing investigations, and nonmaterial
personal information.
I have worked to release as many
transcripts as possible because the
American people deserve the truth.
f
D.C. STATEHOOD
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, women
who celebrate 100 years of suffrage this
year have in common with the resi-
dents of the Nation’s Capital this: de-
nial of equal rights in their democracy,
requiring decades of fighting.
It took 132 years since the Nation’s
founding for women to get the vote.
It has taken 218 years, and still
counting, for D.C. residents to achieve
statehood, which includes voting rights
and all the rights that come with equal
citizenship.
We are grateful that as we move for-
ward to a formal vote on statehood, the
House has already endorsed D.C. state-
hood in H.R. 1.
Today, women set the pace in our de-
mocracy, outvoting men in national
elections. D.C. residents yearn to join
them in showing that those who are de-
nied their rights know how to use them
after fighting to achieve them.
f
DEMANDING CONGRESS ACT TO
SECURE OUR BORDER
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, we
have a crisis on our southern border,
even if Democrat leaders try des-
perately to deny it. Nearly 100,000 peo-
ple were detained last month trying to
illegally cross our southern border.
Mr. Speaker, imagine if the popu-
lation of Billings, Montana, was caught
crossing the border in just 1 month.
That is the crisis our country faces.
Last week, a U.S. district court judge
in Billings sentenced a Mexican citizen
to prison for possession of 34 pounds of
meth with the intent to distribute.
That is nearly 125,000 doses. With Mon-
tana facing a meth epidemic, we must
secure our border and stop the flow of
Mexican meth into our communities.
Mr. Speaker, I saw firsthand the cri-
sis on our southern border. Congress
has an obligation to act. I have stood
with President Trump to secure it.
Let’s build the wall where feasible. The
safety and security of our country and
our communities depend on it.
f
HONORING MUHLAYSIA BOOKER
(Mr. VEASEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in memory of Muhlaysia Booker,
a courageous 23-year-old Black
transgender woman in Dallas who was
found fatally shot this weekend.
Muhlaysia’s name has been in the
news a lot. Recently, she suffered a
brutal beating by a group of men who
screamed transphobic slurs at her as
they assaulted her. The attack was
captured on video, and it made you
sick to your stomach to see the level of
transgender hate that is so strong and
prevalent in this country.
Muhlaysia’s death is devastating for
the Black transgender community in
Dallas, but it is also part of a much
larger trend that shows the violence,
discrimination, and fear that the
transgender and LGBTQ communities
face on a daily basis.
Deaths in the trans community are
underreported, and the adversity they
face is on clear display.
The unemployment rate for the
Black transgender community is 20
percent, close to four times the na-
tional average; 38 percent have lived in
poverty, and 42 percent have experi-
enced homelessness.
Even with all the odds stacked
against them, Black transgender
women like Muhlaysia choose to live
their life in truth. They show courage,
strength, and great personal sacrifice
in the fight for equality.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues in
the Senate to join the House by passing
the Equality Act. We must do every-
thing in our power to stop the discrimi-
nation and violence in our neighbor-
hoods.
Our brothers and sisters are dying
out there. We need the inaction to
stop.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ZION
LUTHERAN CHURCH IN GROVE-
LAND, FLORIDA
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.041 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3998 May 20, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Zion Lu-
theran Church in Groveland, Florida,
for celebrating 100 years of service to
the community.
For the past 100 years, Zion has stood
as a shining example to the people of
Groveland of what it means to be a
Christian. Under Reverend Werley’s
leadership, the congregation has ac-
tively shown God’s love through serv-
ice.
The church regularly provides
backpacks and school supplies to four
schools in the area, which are then
given to students who need them most.
Additionally, many women in the
church also operate a knitting min-
istry, where they knit prayer shawls
and blankets for people who are spend-
ing time in hospitals and nursing
homes. Many of these gifts come with a
prayer so that the recipient knows that
they are not alone in their time of
need.
Beyond these and many other acts of
kindness, Zion has consistently spread
the good news to the people of Florida.
The church has led by example and
shown what it means to live like Christ
for generations of Floridians.
You may be small in numbers, but
you are, indeed, large in spirit.
f
100 YEARS CELEBRATING WOMEN
GETTING THE RIGHT TO VOTE
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, today,
over 68 million women participate in
elections. This would not be possible
without the brave and brilliant suffrag-
ettes who never gave up the fight for
equal rights.
Tomorrow, we celebrate the 100th an-
niversary of House passage of an
Amendment to the United States Con-
stitution guaranteeing women the
right to vote. This historic centennial
offers an unparalleled opportunity to
commemorate this victorious mile-
stone of the women’s suffrage move-
ment.
A vibrant democracy requires that
all voices are heard, and when all
voices are heard, we have a stronger
and better America.
These women fought to be heard and
to make our Nation a better place, and,
for that, we are forever grateful.
f
b 1930
BUDGET DEADLINE MISSED
(Mr. SMITH of Missouri asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today because it has been 35 days
since the deadline for Congress to pass
a budget, but the majority party has
done nothing. The American people’s
government has no plan to rein in
spending, while Members of this body
are proposing trillions of dollars in new
spending.
Families in Missouri live within
their means and balance their books
every day, and they expect their gov-
ernment to do the same, which is why
it is troubling that Members are advo-
cating for the Green New Deal and a
government takeover of healthcare
without any way to pay for it.
To pay for just these two items
alone, we would have to take every
penny from every American household,
and we would still come up $20 trillion
short. This is why the majority has
failed to put forth a budget, because
there is simply no way to pay for these
wild ideas.
Mr. Speaker, a budget is the primary
responsibility of governing, which is
why I serve on the Budget Committee.
The Speaker of the House likes to
say that a budget is a statement of
your values, so what does it say about
their party?
f
MARKING 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE 19TH AMENDMENT
(Mr. FLEISCHMANN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to mark the passage of the 19th
Amendment out of this very Chamber
100 years ago.
As I join with my colleagues to cele-
brate this historic vote on May 21, I
will wear a yellow rose on my lapel.
This is reminiscent of a scene in the
Tennessee State House.
At that time, one more State was
needed to ratify the 19th Amendment.
All eyes were on Tennessee.
State Representative Harry T. Burn
of Tennessee’s Third District donned a
red rose signaling his opposition to the
pro-suffrage movement. However, after
reading a letter from his mother, Ms.
Phoebe Ensminger Burn, Representa-
tive Burn cast the tie-breaking vote,
joining with his colleagues in yellow
roses to vote in support of women’s suf-
frage.
The resolution passed. Tennessee be-
came the final State needed to ratify
the 19th Amendment.
I will wear a yellow rose in honor of
women like Ms. Burn, who demanded
to be heard, to honor Members of the
66th Congress who championed change
and for the enfranchisement of all
American women. Without their
voices, our Nation would not be what it
is today.
f
REMEMBERING PIONEERING EF-
FORTS OF WOMEN 100 YEARS
AGO
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the 100th anni-
versary of the House passage of the
19th Amendment of the United States
Constitution, prohibiting the govern-
ment from denying the right to vote to
citizens on the basis of sex.
In the year 1893, the first attempt to
organize the women’s suffrage move-
ment in the State of Texas took place
in Dallas with the formation of the
Texas Equal Rights Association. Twen-
ty-six years later, Texas became the
first State in the South to ratify the
19th Amendment.
From raising families to organizing
political movements to fighting over-
seas, our country could not thrive
without the influence of so many
strong and determined women. It is
with great admiration that I ask my
colleagues to join me in remembering
the pioneering efforts of women 100
years ago that are still shaping our Na-
tion today.
f
RECOGNIZING MENTAL HEALTH
MONTH
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the month
of May as Mental Health Month for the
70th consecutive year.
Unfortunately, throughout our his-
tory in the United States, many men-
tal health conditions have been over-
looked and often met with rejection,
shame, and more. But mental health
conditions truly touch us all. Between
family members and friends, we all are
either affected ourselves or we know
someone with a mental health condi-
tion.
Currently, 46.6 million adults in the
U.S. have a mental health condition.
Suicide is the 10th leading cause of
death in the U.S., and 90 percent of
those who die by suicide have an under-
lying mental illness revealed by psy-
chological autopsy.
Less than half of adults in the U.S.
are receiving adequate treatment for
mental health.
During the month of May, I encour-
age everyone to get a mental health
checkup and to remember that your
mental health is as important as your
physical health.
Please know, you are not alone, and
it is okay to open up and share what
you are going through.
f
STRONGER CAPTA TO HELP PRO-
TECT ABUSED, NEGLECTED CHIL-
DREN
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
speak about the importance of H.R.
2480, the Stronger Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment Act, which we just
passed in the House with overwhelming
bipartisan support.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.042 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3999
May 20, 2019
Although we are facing challenging
times and political divide in our Na-
tion, one thing we can absolutely agree
on is this: Child abuse and neglect are
heartbreaking, immoral, and simply
inexcusable.
As many of you know, the opioid epi-
demic has devastated families and
communities across our country, which
has been a major factor in the recent
uptick in child abuse and neglect cases.
H.R. 2480 assists States in addressing
this recent increase in child neglect by
improving data collaboration between
States, strengthening accountability,
supporting evidence-based services, and
developing best practices for reducing
child neglect linked to parental sub-
stance abuse.
Most importantly, it provides par-
ents with parental education and lead-
ership skills developed to help keep
them and their families safe and to-
gether.
We have a duty to ensure that Amer-
ican children are protected from mal-
treatment and neglect, and the Strong-
er Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment Act sets us on the right path to
do so.
f
CELEBRATING CENTENNIAL OF SE-
CURING WOMEN’S RIGHT TO
VOTE
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
tonight to celebrate the centennial of
the House passing an amendment
granting women the right to vote in all
States in this country.
One hundred years ago, the unrelent-
ing efforts of women suffragists over
the course of a 72-year campaign paid
off in the passage of the 19th Amend-
ment.
For example, the first woman to hold
Federal office, Republican Representa-
tive Jeannette Rankin of Montana, was
actually elected 3 years before women
were allowed to vote at the Federal
level in all the States at the time. She
went on to introduce legislation simi-
lar to what would eventually become
the 19th Amendment.
My home State Republican Senator,
Aaron Sargent from California, intro-
duced the first legislation to amend the
Constitution and grant women the
right to vote. It failed on the Senate
floor, but it represented the beginning
of an unstoppable movement that cul-
minated in the ratification of the 19th
Amendment in August 1920.
This Chamber is where it all began. I
am proud to be standing here today
and joining my colleagues from both
sides of the aisle to celebrate the 100th
anniversary of this great victory for
women and the values of our Republic.
CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS:
HONORING JUDGE DAMON J.
KEITH, DISCUSSING ROLLBACK
OF SAFETY NET PROGRAMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from the
Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT) is recog-
nized for 60 minutes as the designee of
the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of this
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the Virgin Islands?
There was no objection.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, it is
with great honor that I rise today to
co-anchor the Congressional Black
Caucus Special Order hour. For the
next 60 minutes, we have a chance to
speak directly to the American people
on issues of great importance to the
Congressional Black Caucus, Congress,
the constituents we represent, and all
Americans.
Tonight, we will discuss and honor
the legacy of Judge Damon J. Keith
from Detroit, Michigan, and discuss, as
well, this administration’s, President
Trump’s, recent attempts to roll back
safety net programs.
Damon Keith, a Federal judge in the
Midwest whose rulings championed
equality and civil rights, notably in a
landmark Supreme Court decision
striking down Nixon administration
wiretapping in domestic security cases
without a court order, died April 28 of
this year in Detroit, Michigan. He was
96 years old.
In one of the Federal judiciary’s
longest and most prolific careers,
Judge Keith was a fountainhead of re-
gional rulings with national implica-
tions. He attacked racial segregation
in education, housing, and employ-
ment; conservative efforts to limit Af-
rican American voting; and after the
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001,
secret hearings to deport hundreds of
immigrants deemed suspicious.
Judge Keith’s tenure spanned more
than a half century, first as President
Lyndon B. Johnson’s choice for a dis-
trict court judgeship in Detroit, with
jurisdiction in eastern Michigan, and
then as President Jimmy Carter’s se-
lection for the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals, presiding in Cincinnati over
cases arising in Kentucky, Ohio, Michi-
gan, and Tennessee.
In a blistering 2016 dissent in an Ohio
case that restricted early and absentee
voting, Judge Keith, even in the later
years, worked tirelessly and accused
two circuit court colleagues of scorn-
ing African American voters and the
memory of Black people slain in the
struggle for voting rights.
In a, frankly, emotional rebuke, he
incorporated into his opinion photo-
graphs and biographies of 36 such vic-
tims, including the Reverend Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. ‘‘By denying the
most vulnerable the right to vote, the
majority shuts minorities out of our
political process. . . . The unfettered
right to vote is the bedrock of a free
and democratic society. Without it,
such a society cannot stand.’’
One of America’s oldest Federal ju-
rists, Mr. Keith served in the seg-
regated Army in World War II, cleaned
bathrooms at the Detroit News, at-
tended historically Black under-
graduate and law schools, and wit-
nessed deadly riots in Detroit in 1967.
b 1945
My colleagues are here with me
today to discuss his legacy and the
work of Judge Keith, not just for Afri-
can Americans, but for the American
people.
I am happy to be coanchored in the
CBC Special Order by my friend and
colleague from Nevada, STEVEN
HORSFORD.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I join
with my colleague, Congresswoman
PLASKETT, and I am very honored to be
able to join with her as one of the co-
anchors for the Congressional Black
Caucus Special Order hour.
Tonight, as my colleague indicated,
we are here to honor the life and legacy
of a civil rights icon, the honorable
Judge Damon Keith, who was also a
member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Frater-
nity, Incorporated.
Judge Keith was born on July 4, 1922,
the grandson of slaves, who went on to
become an internationally revered
champion of justice. Judge Keith has
vigorously enforced the Nation’s civil
rights laws, most notably in the areas
of employment and education.
In Stamps v. Detroit Edison Com-
pany, Judge Keith ruled the Detroit
Edison Company had practiced sys-
temic racial discrimination, resulting
in fines against the company of $4 mil-
lion and against the employee union of
$250,000. He ordered the company to in-
stitute an aggressive affirmative ac-
tion program.
In 2016, Judge Keith wrote a searing
dissent when an appeals panel ruled
that Ohio’s voting rights laws did not
discriminate against minorities by re-
stricting early and absentee ballots. He
said in that dissent: ‘‘The birth of this
Nation was founded upon the radical
principle that we, as a people, would
govern ourselves. And voting is the ul-
timate expression of self-government.
Instead of making it easier for all per-
sons, unrestrained and unfettered, to
exercise this fundamental right to
vote, legislators are making it harder.’’
He concluded by saying: ‘‘With every
gain in equality, there is often an
equally robust and reactive retrench-
ment. We must never forget that con-
stant dialectical tension. For every ac-
tion, there is a reaction. The major-
ity’s decision is a fateful reminder that
we can never fool ourselves into believ-
ing that we have arrived as a nation.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.045 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4000 May 20, 2019
That is a statement that is ever so
true even today.
Judge Keith recalled many of the
civil rights activists and innocent chil-
dren who were slain to make sure mi-
norities had access to the voting polls.
They include: Emmett Till, Herbert
Lee, Medgar Evers, Jimmie Lee Jack-
son, Benjamin Brown, Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., and the four little girls
who were, sadly, killed in the 16th
Street Baptist Church bombing in Bir-
mingham, Alabama.
Judge Keith fought on their behalf
during his tenure on this Federal
court.
Some of his other rulings had a pro-
found impact on American life as well,
the biggest being his decision that pro-
hibited the Nixon administration from
warrantless wiretapping in domestic
security cases.
He ordered the Nixon Justice Depart-
ment to end all wiretapping that was
not approved by the courts. This was in
the midst of the Nixon administra-
tion’s attempt to go after radicals ac-
cused of conspiring to bomb a CIA of-
fice in Ann Arbor, Michigan. He stated
it violated the Constitution’s Fourth
Amendment rights from ‘‘unreasonable
searches and seizures.’’
The Nixon administration appealed
his ruling, and the Supreme Court,
with a vote of 8–0, rejected the admin-
istration’s claim of constitutional au-
thority to protect the Nation from in-
ternal subversion by wiretapping dan-
gerous radicals without court war-
rants.
Along with this case, he ruled in
favor of integration of the Detroit Po-
lice Department and made the decision
that deportation hearings could not be
held in secret after the September 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.
He has left an indelible mark on the
judiciary. Judge Keith has received
over 40 honorary degrees from colleges
and universities across the country and
is the recipient of numerous awards. He
was awarded the Spingarn Medal from
the NAACP, and the Edward J. Devitt
Distinguished Service to Justice
Award, the highest award that can be
bestowed on a member of the Federal
judiciary.
Judge Keith fought on all of our be-
half to make this country more just,
fair, and less discriminatory.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from North Caro-
lina (Ms. ADAMS), my colleague.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join my
colleagues in honoring Judge Damon J.
Keith, who passed away last month.
The grandson of slaves, Judge Keith
served more than 50 years on the Fed-
eral bench, where he consistently ruled
to uphold civil rights and civil lib-
erties.
Judge Keith leaves behind a legacy of
fostering equal opportunity and fight-
ing for the little guy. Unfortunately,
this legacy is under threat.
The Trump administration is pro-
posing yet another idea that will hurt
working families. The administration
wants to change the way poverty is
measured to artificially reduce the
number of people who are considered
poor. That means fewer people will be
eligible for programs like SNAP and
WIC and Medicaid.
I am disappointed, but I am not sur-
prised. The latest attempt to gut the
social safety net just goes to show how
out of touch this administration is
with the needs of everyday Americans.
This administration has proposed
cutting nutrition benefits for an esti-
mated 755,000 people just because they
cannot find jobs. They have threatened
to take money away from the Pell
Grant Program that provides a path-
way to higher education for millions of
low-income students.
The President has consistently tried
to cut funding for essential programs
like Medicaid, public housing, Head
Start, and more. And while passing a
tax cut to benefit corporations and
millionaires, the little people have
been left out.
We need serious solutions to combat
income inequality. Pretending that
poor people don’t exist is not the solu-
tion at all. Instead of changing the way
we measure poverty, we need to
strengthen programs that help people
who are struggling.
We need to raise the minimum wage.
We need a living wage. Working hard is
not enough if you don’t make enough.
We need to expand access to quality
nutrition and housing, and we need to
make sure that students have equal ac-
cess to higher education.
I am proud to stand tonight with my
colleagues against the administration’s
ongoing attacks on working people and
families and so proud to praise and
honor Judge Damon J. Keith, who
worked so hard to preserve our rights.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to con-
tinuing our efforts to make sure that
working families and low-income
Americans have access to all of the
services that they need.
Ms. PLASKETT. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Nevada.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman ADAMS for her
leadership on these issues and her un-
derstanding of the dire impacts that
the Trump administration’s proposed
rule change would mean on working
families and the poor.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. EVANS), the Congressman and my
good friend, whom I have the honor to
serve with on the Ways and Means
Committee. He is fighting for the peo-
ple of his district in Philadelphia.
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleagues for their leadership and vi-
sion for leading this effort, under the
leadership of Congresswoman BASS.
I think, as the gentleman from Ne-
vada has demonstrated along with my
other colleague from the great Virgin
Islands, they both have shown the kind
of leadership that is extremely essen-
tial.
The passing of a civil rights icon like
Judge Damon Keith is also a time to
focus on one of his priorities: helping
future generations to succeed. This is
also a priority of the members of the
Congressional Black Caucus. Unfortu-
nately, it has not been a priority of the
occupant of the White House.
In August 2016, he asked African
Americans: What the hell do you have
to lose? It has been crystal clear in the
last few years that African Americans
of all ages have a lot to lose as long as
Donald Trump is in the White House.
The latest example of this is the
Trump administration’s plan to strip
Medicare, food assistance, and other
basics away from hundreds of thou-
sands of working-class Americans.
They are trying to change how the
Census measures poverty so they can
count fewer people as poor. As costs go
up each year, the fake Trump poverty
line will take basic benefits away:
SNAP, WIC, Head Start, school
lunches, legal services, and even tax
credits under the Affordable Care Act
that help working people to get
healthcare.
It is basically a backdoor tax in-
crease for those who can afford it least.
It is an outrageous sequel to the tax
cut that Trump and the Republicans
gave to millionaires and big corpora-
tions. It is classic Trump: Don’t actu-
ally solve the problem; just pretend
that it doesn’t exist anymore.
I stand with my colleagues in the
Congressional Black Caucus in oppos-
ing the Trump poverty line change. I
stand with all of those who did not in-
herit millions of dollars from a parent
like the President did.
Let us honor the work of Judge Keith
and others like him by renewing our
commitment to help lift our future
generations. We can do this by making
college affordable again, raising the
minimum wage, and preserving the
safety net. Each of these proposals will
go a long way toward repairing the lad-
ders of opportunity and making this a
more just society.
This dedication today to Justice
Damon Keith is our commitment as
the Congressional Black Caucus to
raise him up in his legacy that he has
done for all of us in this country.
It is a real honor as one member of
this body, the Congressional Black
Caucus, that I stand here today to join
my colleagues and show the kind of
support for what Justice Keith dem-
onstrated to all of us.
So I am here to lend my voice, to
make it clear that this is not accept-
able, retreating on the people, particu-
larly African Americans.
Since the President made that state-
ment in August of 2016—and he made it
in the city of Philadelphia—it is clear
to me that this is not acceptable. Mr.
Speaker, we, as members of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus, will not stand
for this.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my good friend and colleague
from Philadelphia who always stands
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.047 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4001
May 20, 2019
up for the rights of the working class
of those in cities and elsewhere who are
struggling, the working poor.
Mr. Speaker, I thank him so much
for the work he is doing and for trying
to maintain working neighborhoods in
our many cities that are, through so
much of these rule changes, so much of
these executive orders, the ones who
are being most affected.
b 2000
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. PAYNE), who is
from the city of Newark, New Jersey,
our good friend, my good friend, and
champion as well, of those in the urban
areas, as well as to others. He has re-
cently taken on issues related to
healthcare.
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, let me
first thank my colleagues, Delegate
Plaskett and Congressman HORSFORD
for hosting tonight’s Special Order
hour on Judge Keith’s legacy and the
Trump administration’s recent at-
tempts to roll back the social safety
nets in our country.
Judge Keith’s legacy cannot be over-
stated. He was an icon for African
Americans and, indeed, all Americans.
He was a Black pioneer in the legal
field whose rulings took on Presidents
from Richard Nixon to George W. Bush.
For 60 years he sat on the Federal
bench and consistently ruled in favor
of expansive civil rights in this coun-
try. It is because of Judge Keith and
others like him that thousands of
young Black people have entered the
legal profession and rose to the top.
He was a judge who always extended
a hand down to help lift others up.
That is the American way, and it is
worth fighting for. Sadly, we live in a
time when people in power don’t al-
ways help uplift others. We have a
President who is doing his best to beat
down everyone who doesn’t think,
look, or vote like him.
Now we see that the President has
set his sights on America’s neediest
people. He and his cronies are peddling
a myth that the vulnerable people who
rely on our social safety net are lazy
folks who just want a government
handout.
But we know that is not true. Some
people just need a hand up every once
in a while. The Trump administration’s
attempts to roll back the social safety
net is a life-and-death matter for thou-
sands of Americans who struggle to
make ends meet. We live in an unpre-
dictable world. One day you can be on
top, but the next day you might be
knocked down. The social safety net is
our country’s promise that we will help
people get back up again.
Sometimes people need a little help
buying food, or getting healthcare, or
just scraping by. There is nothing
wrong with that. We all know someone
who has had hard times, and when we
are having a good time, we need to
look out for each other. That is the
American way.
I have said this before but let me say
it again: I have never met a person who
wakes up in the morning and says: ‘‘I
want to be poor today.’’ That is just
not reality. And let me add this: I have
never met a person who wakes up at 5
a.m. to go to her first job; comes home
at 1 p.m. to take a nap; and heads out
to her second job at 4 p.m., yet still
lives paycheck to paycheck.
I never knew anyone that said: ‘‘I
like the struggle. I like the difficulty.
I like being poor.’’ That person does
not exist. That is just not how the
world works.
Social safety net programs like
SNAP, Medicaid, and housing assist-
ance are supplements that help people
struggle just a little bit less. Yet, my
colleagues across the aisle and their
friends in the White House keep push-
ing a false narrative that people who
rely on government assistance to make
ends meet are freeloaders or take gov-
ernment handouts and buy drugs. The
45th President keeps pushing his cal-
lous, immoral narrative in order to
tear apart our social safety net.
In my district, 17.9 percent of the
households rely on SNAP to feed their
families. They aren’t lazy. They aren’t
addicts. They are hardworking people;
some of them with two or three jobs
just trying to make ends meet.
And now the President is trying to
define them out of existence. Accord-
ing to reports, his administration
wants to change how inflation is cal-
culated in the official poverty measure
in order to define poverty out of exist-
ence and deny people access to our so-
cial safety net.
Well, Mr. President, that is not going
to work for the American people. The
United States Government should be
making it easier for Americans to
maintain a decent standard of living.
The fact of the matter is that 70 per-
cent of Americans rely on at least one
Federal program at some point in time
in their lives. The President’s focus on
ripping apart our social safety net with
heartless cuts is wrong, it is immoral,
and it is shameful.
It isn’t about cleaning up waste,
fraud, or abuse. It is about pulling the
rug out from under people. Programs
like SNAP are not just some unlimited
handout for people who are sitting at
home doing nothing.
Currently, 44 percent of the people
who use SNAP have at least one person
in the family working. But even
though they are working, they might
make minimum wage and are still
below the poverty line.
When it comes to families with chil-
dren who are on SNAP, more than half
of them bring home wages. But the
problem is, their income isn’t enough
to actually live on. So when the self-
proclaimed billionaire in the White
House talks about making people who
receive SNAP benefits work or defining
poverty out of existence, he is just re-
peating the same old fake news that
the Republican Party has peddled for
decades.
This is unacceptable, and as a Mem-
ber of Congress, I am here to serve the
people in my communities, and that
means all the people. We have to pro-
tect our most vulnerable and those in
need. Let us end the administration’s
war on the working poor and help
make their lives better for all of our
constituents.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, may I
inquire as to how much time I have re-
maining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from the Virgin Islands has
33 minutes remaining.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, you
can see we have had a lively discussion
in recognition of Federal Judge Damon
Keith. I would like include in the
RECORD an article on his obituary from
The New York Times dated April 28 of
2019.
[From the New York Times, April 28, 2019]
DAMON KEITH, FEDERAL JUDGE WHO
CHAMPIONED CIVIL RIGHTS, DIES AT 96
(By Robert D. McFadden)
Damon Keith, a federal judge in the Mid-
west whose rulings championed equality and
civil rights, notably in a landmark Supreme
Court decision striking down Nixon adminis-
tration wiretapping in domestic security
cases without a court order, died on Sunday
in Detroit. He was 96.
His death was confirmed by his daughter,
Debbie Keith.
In one of the federal judiciary’s longest
and most prolific careers, Judge Keith, a
Democrat, was a fountainhead of regional
rulings with national implications. He at-
tacked racial segregation in education, hous-
ing and employment; conservative efforts to
limit African-American voting; and, after
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, secret
hearings to deport hundreds of immigrants
deemed suspicious.
Judge Keith’s tenure spanned more than a
half-century, first as President Lyndon B.
Johnson’s choice for a district court judge-
ship in Detroit, with jurisdiction in Eastern
Michigan (1967–1977), then as President
Jimmy Carter’s selection for the Sixth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals, presiding in Cin-
cinnati over cases arising in Kentucky, Ohio,
Michigan and Tennessee.
In a blistering 2016 dissent in an Ohio case
that restricted early and absentee voting,
Judge Keith accused two Circuit Court col-
leagues of scorning African-American voters
and the memory of black people slain in the
struggle for voting rights. In a frankly emo-
tional rebuke, he incorporated into his opin-
ion photographs and biographies of 36 such
victims, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King Jr.
‘‘By denying the most vulnerable the right
to vote, the majority shuts minorities out of
our political process,’’ he wrote. ‘‘The unfet-
tered right to vote is the bedrock of a free
and democratic society. Without it, such a
society cannot stand.’’
One of America’s oldest federal jurists, Mr.
Keith served in the segregated Army in
World War II, cleaned bathrooms at The De-
troit News, attended historically black un-
dergraduate and law schools and witnessed
deadly riots in Detroit in 1967.
In the most prominent case of his tenure,
Judge Keith ordered the Nixon Justice De-
partment in 1971 to halt wiretapping without
court orders in its zeal to prosecute radicals
accused of conspiring to bomb a Central In-
telligence Agency office in Ann Arbor, Mich.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.048 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4002 May 20, 2019
As grounds, he cited the Constitution’s
Fourth Amendment freedoms from ‘‘unrea-
sonable searches and seizures.’’
After the Sixth Circuit Court upheld Judge
Keith’s decision, the Nixon administration
appealed to the Supreme Court. At stake, po-
tentially, were warrantless wiretaps in many
prosecutions that Attorney General John N.
Mitchell had brought against antiwar activ-
ists and other opponents of administration
policies.
The high court, by 8–0, rejected the govern-
ment’s claim of constitutional authority to
protect the nation from internal subversion
by wiretapping ‘‘dangerous’’ radicals without
court warrants. Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.,
who wrote the opinion, leaned heavily on the
threat to free speech that he saw in the un-
bridled government wiretapping of dis-
senters.
The American Civil Liberties Union said:
‘‘If this claim had been upheld, there would
have been virtually no limits to the range of
governmental intrusion on the liberty that
would have been implicitly authorized once
the government invoked the talisman of ‘na-
tional security.’ ’’
In another case, the Supreme Court de-
clined to review Judge Keith’s order to bus
8,700 of 23,000 students to desegregate public
schools in Pontiac, Mich. His 1971 order, one
of the first of its kind in the North, led to ex-
tensive busing, attacks on school buses,
death threats against the judge and the con-
victions of Ku Klux Klansmen for dynamit-
ing 10 school buses.
But five years after Pontiac’s busing
began, The New York Times reported that
bitter feelings that had all but paralyzed the
school district had faded, and that busing
had become a fact of life. ‘‘Both blacks and
whites are learning to understand each other
better, to fear and distrust each other less,
and to see individuals as individuals,’’ the re-
port said.
In 1973, a year before Nixon resigned in the
Watergate scandal, Judge Keith ordered the
government to disclose whether it had used
sabotage, agents provocateurs and ‘‘other es-
pionage activities,’’ including a burglary at a
law office, to make its case against militants
known as the Weathermen. They were ac-
cused of plotting a campaign of bombing and
terrorism.
Later, government lawyers appeared in
Judge Keith’s court and withdrew their case
against the Weathermen rather than undergo
a hearing on how their evidence had been ob-
tained. Defense lawyers said the Nixon ad-
ministration had plotted its own campaign
of domestic intelligence-gathering oper-
ations, including breaking and entering and
wiretapping to foster a ‘‘malicious prosecu-
tion.’’
In 1979, Judge Keith and the Sixth Circuit
upheld the Detroit Police Department’s af-
firmative action program. A lieutenants and
sergeants group had sued to overturn the
five-year-old program, saying that white of-
ficers had been unjustly passed over for pro-
motion. But Judge Keith wrote that pro-
motion tests had been slanted against
blacks, and that affirmative action ‘‘undoes
years of discrimination.’’
And in 2002, the Sixth Circuit Court held
that the Bush administration had violated
the First Amendment freedoms of speech and
the press by conducting hundreds of secret
hearings to deport immigrants suspected of
ties to terrorism. Other courts issued con-
tradictory rulings, and the secret hearings
went on for some time. But the case yielded
one of Judge Keith’s more memorable opin-
ions.
‘‘Democracy dies behind closed doors,’’ he
wrote.
Damon Jerome Keith was born in Detroit
on July 4, 1922, the youngest of six children
of Perry and Annie (Williams) Keith, who
had migrated from Georgia. Mr. Keith
worked at the Ford Motor Company’s River
Rouge plant for $5 a day. Damon and his sib-
lings, Luther, Perry, Napoleon, Marie and
Annie, grew up in poverty. For a time during
the Depression, the family received welfare
assistance.
Mr. Keith graduated from Northwestern
High School in 1939. At West Virginia State
College, he waited on tables and cleaned a
chapel and the college president’s house to
pay his way. He earned a bachelor’s degree in
1943. Drafted into the wartime Army, he
served in Europe in a black unit largely as-
signed to kitchen duties. He was discharged
as a sergeant in 1946.
He received his juris doctor in 1949 at the
Howard University Law School, where his
mentors included Thurgood Marshall, the fu-
ture first black justice of the Supreme
Court, and William Hastie, the nation’s first
black federal judge. Mr. Keith received a
master of laws degree at Wayne State Uni-
versity in 1956.
In 1953, he married Rachel Boone, a promi-
nent doctor in Detroit. She died in 2007. Be-
sides his daughter Debbie, survivors include
two other daughters, Cecile Keith Brown and
Gilda Keith, and two granddaughters.
In 1964, Mr. Keith helped founded one of
Detroit’s first African-American law firms
and was named co-chairman of the Michigan
Civil Rights Commission. Three years later,
he became a federal judge. He was chief
judge for Eastern Michigan from 1975 to 1977,
when he joined the Sixth Circuit Court. In
1995, he assumed senior status on the appel-
late court, with a reduced caseload.
A lifelong Detroit resident, Mr. Keith re-
ceived some 40 honorary doctorates and was
showered with honors, including the
Spingarn Medal of the N.A.A.C.P. and the
federal judiciary’s Edward J. Devitt Award.
He was the subject of a 2016 Jesse Nesser
documentary, ‘‘Walk with Me: The Trials of
Damon J. Keith.’’ One highlight: When he
was 69, one of the nation’s most distin-
guished jurists and national chairman of a
Williamsburg, Va., judicial conference on the
Constitution’s Bicentennial, he stepped out-
side the hotel during a break—and was taken
for a parking attendant.
‘‘A white man drove up,’’ he told a crowd
screening the film at Howard University,
‘‘and said, ‘Boy, park my car.’ ’’
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, in
looking at those things that this Fed-
eral judge fought for while he was
alive, I think it is a great segue into
the other discussion that the Congres-
sional Black Caucus has been engaged
in in this hour, and that is poverty.
Many of the communities that this
judge was fighting for were poor com-
munities.
Unfortunately, at this day and age, it
is still primarily people of color who
disproportionately are affected by pov-
erty. But the Trump administration is
on the verge of making an end run
around Congress now, attempting to
slash the Supplemental Nutrition As-
sistance Program by fiat.
The latest effort was a proposed rule
that would open for public comments
until April 10. This rule would restrict
SNAP eligibility by limiting States’
flexibility to help the jobless or under-
employed workers in struggling re-
gions. By the administration’s own es-
timate, enacting this rule would sub-
stantially increase hunger and hard-
ship, stripping at least 755,000 Ameri-
cans of food assistance, though other
estimates suggest it could be as much
as 1 million individuals and cut SNAP
by $15 billion, slashing more than
178,000 jobs over the coming decade.
In the last Congress, Republicans and
Democrats had a long, protracted con-
ference on the farm bill, much of it re-
lated to SNAP. Much of it was because
of discussions about ensuring that
there is a safety net for those who reg-
ularly without it would go hungry.
We see that this administration did
not want to take what Congress ruled
on—what the President even signed—
and is now, through his own executive
order, attempting to change the law.
The administration’s most recent at-
tempt to cut SNAP comes on the heels
of President Donald Trump’s failed at-
tempt to achieve similar SNAP cuts in
that farm bill; cuts that Congress re-
jected on a bipartisan basis.
This proposed rule is not just cruel.
It is also bad policy. Making people
hungrier will not help them find work
any faster. It will only kick under-
employment and unemployment work-
ers when they are down.
Most working-age SNAP participants
who are not receiving disability bene-
fits are working, but they are often in
unstable jobs with volatile schedules,
low wages, making them especially
likely to being affected by the rule.
I want to talk about how this is
going to affect rural communities. In
2010, the U.S. Census found that 22 per-
cent of the population in the Virgin Is-
lands lives in poverty. Fifty percent of
those living under the poverty level
were families led by single mothers.
The Congressional Research Service
discovered that on average, children
living in female-headed families were
more likely to live in poverty than
children living in two-parent house-
holds.
Given that 76 percent of rural adults
report that good jobs are scarce in
their area, it is not as if they are not
looking. The jobs are simply not there.
Rural communities like mine in the
Virgin Islands will be among the hard-
est hit by the President’s proposed
rule, as it will tie States’ hands and re-
move the flexibility they need to help
residents of high unemployment areas
put food on the table.
Indeed, while the urban areas experi-
enced a net gain of 3.6 million jobs
from 2007 to 2015, rural areas lost
400,000 jobs during that same time,
meaning that many rural areas have
struggled to recover still from the
Great Recession.
Moreover, rural populations already
face additional barriers to work. For
example, lack of access to broadband is
impeding the growth of rural econo-
mies, hampering total employment
growth, and the opening of new busi-
nesses. Additionally, rural economies
have less industrial diversity than
urban areas and, in some communities,
in particular, the departure of a cen-
tral employer has led to tremendous
job loss.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.018 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4003
May 20, 2019
In the Virgin Islands, one of the
world’s largest refineries based in the
Virgin Islands on St. Croix shut down
in 2012, driving a decrease in jobs. At
the time of the shutdown, the unem-
ployment skyrocketed to 18 percent. In
the same year, refined petroleum ex-
ports for the U.S. plummeted by 90 per-
cent.
Given these challenges, States need
more flexibility, not less, in order to
decide how best to protect and invest
in rural areas, as the administration’s
economic policies have not decreased
the widening urban and rural divide. I
believe that my coanchor, as well, has
examples how poverty is affecting
Americans; not just African Ameri-
cans.
b 2015
The purpose of the Congressional
Black Caucus Special Order hour is not
solely to talk about African Americans
but to really champion the issues of
those Americans who do not often have
a voice.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Nevada (Mr. HORSFORD) to discuss
this further.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague, the gentlewoman
from the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT)
for yielding.
This is a very serious and important
issue that we are talking about to-
night. I really want to provide the con-
text to what got us to this point where
the Trump administration is now try-
ing to balance the budget on the backs
of working people: the poor, seniors,
children, and needy families.
The President and Republicans in
Congress during the last Congress
passed the so-called Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act. What that Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
actually did was add $1.5 trillion to our
deficit. The tax cuts that were so-
called were supposed to help the work-
ing poor. Eighty-three percent of the
benefit from those tax cuts went to 1
percent of the wealthiest, the well-con-
nected, and the powerful. Now, to bal-
ance the budget, they are proposing
these draconian measures—cuts and re-
visions—on our budget, and they are
targeting the poor, those who are rely-
ing, as my colleague said, on important
programs such as SNAP, Head Start
funding, the Children’s Health Insur-
ance Program, the National School
Lunch Program, and other anti-pov-
erty programs.
Let me talk to you for a moment,
Mr. Speaker, about what these cuts
mean to the people in my home State
of Nevada. Nearly 434,000 Nevadans
would be at risk of losing their SNAP
benefits. SNAP benefits help families
put food on the table and also help con-
tribute to our local economy because
they are buying those groceries at our
local grocery stores. They are ensuring
that we keep workers working at our
local grocery stores.
The proposed rule would impact Ne-
vadans, by putting 633,000 Nevadans at
risk of being kicked off of Medicaid.
Since we have adopted the Affordable
Care Act and Medicaid expansion in my
home State of Nevada in 2008, we have
cut the rate of uninsured in half. Prior
to the Affordable Care Act and the
Medicaid expansion, our uninsured rate
among children was over 30 percent.
Now it is below 14 percent and con-
tinuing to decline. This administration
wants to take us backward. We won’t
go backward.
Over 3,000 young toddlers in Nevada
would be at risk of being removed from
the Early Head Start and Head Start
programs. That is unconscionable to
me because the Acelero program that
helps administer Head Start in my dis-
trict already has a waiting list. There
are already families who can’t get into
the program because there is not ade-
quate funding based on this adminis-
tration’s lack of priorities around the
poor.
So while this rule may seem mun-
dane to some, the impact on families is
real. So we are bringing attention to
this issue so the voters and constitu-
ents across the United States can have
a voice in this process. The rule that
the President is proposing to make has
a 45-day window for the American pub-
lic to comment on just how harmful
this rule would be. The deadline to sub-
mit comments is June 21 of this year,
and I would encourage all of the public
to make sure that their voices are
being heard.
So just to underline again, the
Trump administration has proposed a
rule that would recalculate how we
measure poverty, a move that would
more than likely kick people off of cer-
tain Federal programs that are meant
to assist poor and low-income families.
So why would they do that?
Because they have targeted the
working poor in order to balance the
budget to pay for the tax cuts that
they gave to big corporations, the
wealthy, and the well-connected.
The administration is considering
switching to a different inflation meas-
ure that rises more slowly, a change
that over time would make it harder to
qualify for assistance. It is already
hard enough for many constituents in
my district to receive aid.
Mr. Speaker, I talked to you about
the waiting list of families at Acelero
Head Start program. It is right there
on the corner of Martin Luther King
and Carey in my district. I have talked
to the parents at that program, and
those families that are in it depend on
the Head Start program in order to
give their children a good head start
and be able to prepare them for school.
But without it, they would be left
without adequate childcare and with-
out adequate support for their families.
The Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram is something that I had worked
on when I was in the State senate. This
is not a partisan issue. In fact, many of
my colleagues on the other side have
supported funding for the Children’s
Health Insurance Program, but the
proposed Trump administration rule
that would recalculate how we measure
poverty would actually impact 633,000
Nevadans who would be kicked off of
Medicaid and the Children’s Health In-
surance Program.
So I would ask my colleagues on the
other side why they would support the
administration impacting their con-
stituents in this way?
It is not just the constituents in my
district. It is not just the constituents
in Delegate PLASKETT’s district. Every
Member of this body has constituents
who would be negatively impacted if
this rule by the Trump administration
is enacted.
By allowing for these additional sub-
stitutions, chained CPI, which is the
measurement by which the administra-
tion is looking to measure poverty,
shows a slower rate of inflation. But
for many families who are already
choosing between paying the rent and
buying food, they are already living as
frugally as possible.
Time and time again, the Trump ad-
ministration has attacked programs
that help struggling American families
put food on the table and keep a roof
over their heads. But they ran and
passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
They did it in 51 days without one
hearing, and now there are all these
unintended consequences from that
measure that was passed in the pre-
vious Congress, and they want to come
back here and balance the budget on
the backs of the poor. We say, No.
The Department of Education has
said that more than 1 million school-
children were homeless in the 2016–2017
school year. One million schoolchildren
in America are homeless, and this ad-
ministration wants to deny them
health insurance coverage under Med-
icaid and a school lunch during the
school day?
The Department of Agriculture said
that 15 million households faced food
insecurity in 2017, meaning that they
experienced difficulty affording food,
and this administration—the Trump
administration—wants to pass a rule
that would recalculate how we measure
poverty in order to deny more children
and families receiving this care. De-
spite that, 70 percent of voters indi-
cated that they had experienced at
least one form of economic hardship
last year—70 percent. But we can find
ways to give tax cuts to big corpora-
tions, to the wealthy, and to the well-
connected.
The President’s proposed rule would
be harmful. It is misguided and unfair
to so many Nevada families and fami-
lies all across the country. Again, I
would urge the public to write their
Member of Congress and ask them
what they are doing to protect the pub-
lic on this issue. After the public has
written their Member, they should sub-
mit their comment before the June 21
date to the administration so that we
can rescind this proposed rule and pro-
tect working families and the poor.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I have
to tell the gentleman that his remarks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.050 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4004 May 20, 2019
were very enlightening and thoughtful.
The logic of this administration and
what they are thinking just does not
make sense. In the end, it is going to
cost us more. As you said, how is deny-
ing 1 million children lunch benefiting
us as a country?
Mr. HORSFORD. I am at a loss for
words how we choose to balance the
budget on 1 million homeless children,
but find a way to give tax cuts to the
wealthy. We added $1.5 trillion to our
Federal deficit, but now we have 1 mil-
lion homeless children in last year’s
school year whom we are struggling to
make sure they get adequate support
in their schools and a nutritious meal.
And this administration wants to deny
them that by this rule change.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, if you
want to be calculating about it, how is
it helpful to us in the long run?
If you don’t want to do it out of
Christian goodness, out of the depths of
humanity, then think about the long-
term ramifications. Think about what
it does to us to have 1 million children
not being fed properly, not being able
to think in a classroom, to be able to
function, and to be able to do their
work.
What will that do to us 10 years from
now?
How many dropouts will there be?
How many young people will be un-
able to function, to be able to read and
write, and to be able to find a job?
That will cost us, I am sure, entirely
more money.
Mr. HORSFORD. We have to have a
more balanced discussion in this body.
I believe that we need to be competi-
tive, and we need to make sure that we
are doing things to help incentivize our
private sector. There is a way to do
that, but, unfortunately, our col-
leagues took the approach to ram this
measure through in 51 days with not
one hearing. They didn’t discusses the
impacts, and none of the issues that we
are now bringing forward on how the
working poor, the middle class, and
those who are struggling and aspiring
to be part of the middle class are being
negatively impacted by these policies.
So there is a direct correlation. We
can’t just talk about the budget or the
cuts to the budget that this adminis-
tration is making without talking
about what this administration and
Republicans in Congress did last Con-
gress by adding $1.5 trillion to our Fed-
eral deficit. It is not just these Federal
programs that we are talking about to-
night. It is Medicare, it is Social Secu-
rity, and it is the Affordable Care Act.
I am sure we will have a Special Order
on those topics as well, but we wanted
to bring attention to this tonight, be-
cause we only have 45 days for the pub-
lic to get their comments in to, hope-
fully, reverse this rule so that it won’t
go into effect.
Ms. PLASKETT. In the last Congress,
and again in this one, I am a member
of the Agriculture Committee. I recall
that when that farm bill initially was
presented, the ranking member at that
time and now the chair, COLLIN PETER-
SON, and many of the Democrats were
aghast that we weren’t going to have
hearings, that there wasn’t going to be
a markup, and that there wasn’t going
to be discussion on the farm bill which
contains essential nutrition programs
in there. It wasn’t until it got to the
Senate that we were able to have in
conference a discussion about SNAP
because the Republicans over here de-
cided that that was not important.
They didn’t want to fund it, they didn’t
want to take care of children, and they
didn’t want to take care of families of
those with disabilities and of veterans
who rely on SNAP programs, on sup-
plemental nutrition programs. It
wasn’t until we got to conference that
that happened.
The President signed the farm bill,
and lo and behold, here comes the boo-
merang where he is trying to ram this
through by executive order and by pro-
posed rule changes to the law.
People in this law it doesn’t just af-
fect, and if you are not interested in
families that are single-parent fami-
lies, female-run families, African
American families, what about those
veterans who are affected?
What about those with disabilities?
The proposed rule purports to apply
only to able-bodied adults without de-
pendents. But what people are unaware
of is that under the rule, 11 million
people with disabilities who receive
SNAP assistance could lose that assist-
ance under the rule as people who face
limited work capacity due to disability
or poor health are regularly
misclassified as able-bodied for the
purpose of SNAP.
b 2030
That means those individuals be-
tween the ages of 18 and 59 who have at
least one physical, functional, or work-
ing limitation and are not counted as
disabled under SNAP may, in fact, be
affected. So this is cutting across so
many individuals.
Mr. HORSFORD. Would the gentle-
woman yield on that point?
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD).
Mr. HORSFORD. There was a recent
article that showed many of the work-
ers of large employers who don’t pay a
livable wage are on SNAP benefits.
These are people who are working, but
because they are not being paid an ade-
quate wage, they are eligible for SNAP
benefits.
On top of that, based on the rule
change and the discussion the gentle-
woman just outlined, 11 million could
lose their benefits. These are people,
some of whom are working but because
employers aren’t willing to pay them a
living wage, they are on benefits, Fed-
eral benefits, being subsidized by the
Federal Government.
Either we need these employers to
step up and give America a raise so
they don’t have to be on SNAP benefits
or we need this administration to un-
derstand that balancing the budget on
the working poor isn’t the solution.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, when
the gentleman talks about the working
poor, I think about those individuals in
the Virgin Islands where we have lim-
ited jobs. Many of these individuals
have jobs in government.
You have an individual who is the
head of a house, a husband-and-wife
house, making $20,000—three children,
a wife—trying to make ends meet off
that kind of salary. They qualify, as we
now have it functioning, for assistance
for their family—for Medicaid, in some
instances. But this administration is
trying to take that away.
Are they going to take it away from
those people who are doing what they
say they are supposed to do? They are
out there working as best they can.
They are trying to take care of their
families. This Congress has provided a
safety net to them, and now we are
going to strip that away.
This is untenable, and this has to
stop.
Mr. Speaker, I would inquire of Mr.
HORSFORD the timeframe that individ-
uals have to send a letter to their
Member of Congress, to send a letter to
this administration to let them know
what their thoughts are.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Nevada (Mr. HORSFORD).
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, the
comment period for the American pub-
lic for this proposed rule by the admin-
istration ends on June 21.
The Trump administration floated
this proposal through what is called a
request for comment, essentially a re-
quest for the public to provide informa-
tion and views to the Federal Govern-
ment on this potential change. They
are expecting them not to know that
this is happening.
This administration presented no re-
search on how low-income families’
costs for basic necessities has changed
over time, nor did they provide infor-
mation on the implications of changing
the poverty line for individuals’ and
families’ access to needed assistance.
That is why tonight’s Special Order
was so important and timely, for us to
bring awareness to this. I don’t know
how many Members of this body know
that the administration is doing this.
Again, I would ask my colleagues on
the other side, who have constituents
just like we do who will be impacted,
whether they support this administra-
tion in this proposed rule change that
will take away fundamental benefits
from their constituents, just like it
will ours.
This is not a handout. This is a hand
up. It is a hand up in order to help indi-
viduals bridge, if you will, while they
are going through difficult times.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
think people don’t understand that
SNAP benefits represent $1.40 per per-
son, per meal—$1.40. I can’t get a cup of
coffee in Washington, D.C., with $1.40,
but that is the benefit we are giving
per person, per meal, for SNAP bene-
fits.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.052 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4005
May 20, 2019
We should not be talking about cuts
to SNAP. We should be talking about
how to increase this benefit to the
American people, to American chil-
dren, to our elders, to veterans who are
relying on this.
Something must be done. As the Con-
gressional Black Caucus, we are here to
raise the alarm.
Raising the Federal minimum wage
would save, even if we raised it to $12
an hour, $53 billion over the next 10
years, nearly four times as much as the
proposed rule, by ensuring that work-
ers earn more so that they are better
able to afford food, instead of pun-
ishing labor market struggles with
hunger, as the gentleman said.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Nevada (Mr. HORSFORD) for any
additional thoughts he may have as we
close out this Special Order hour, and I
thank the American people for listen-
ing.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
information from the Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities titled ‘‘Trump
Administration Floating Changes to
Poverty Measure That Would Reduce
or Eliminate Assistance to Millions of
Low-Income Americans.’’
[From the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, Tuesday, May 7, 2019]
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION FLOATING CHANGES
TO POVERTY MEASURE THAT WOULD REDUCE
OR ELIMINATE ASSISTANCE TO MILLIONS OF
LOWER-INCOME AMERICANS
(Statement by Sharon Parrott, Senior
Fellow and Senior Counselor)
The Trump Administration yesterday
floated a proposal to use a lower measure of
inflation when adjusting the poverty line
each year. Consistent with other policies the
Administration has pursued, this policy
would over time cut or take away entirely
food assistance, health, and other forms of
basic assistance from millions of people who
struggle to put food on the table, keep a roof
over their heads, and see a doctor when they
need to. The reductions in assistance that
this proposal would produce stand in stark
contrast to the Administration’s 2017 tax
law, which conferred large new benefits on
the highest-income households.
If the poverty line is altered in this fash-
ion, fewer individuals and families will qual-
ify over time for various forms of assistance,
including many who work hard but are paid
low wages. That’s because using a lower
measure of inflation like the chained CPI to
adjust the poverty line each year would
make the eligibility thresholds for various
programs that serve people in need lower and
lower over time, compared with what the
thresholds otherwise would be. This, in turn,
would lower the income eligibility limits for
programs like SNAP (formerly known as
food stamps) and Medicaid, which are tied to
the federal poverty line. It also would reduce
the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) premium
tax credits—and thereby increase the out-of-
pocket premium charges faced by millions of
people who purchase health insurance
through the ACA marketplaces.
The notion that the nation does too much
to help struggling families stands in contrast
to a broad set of data. For example, even
with our current poverty line and set of sup-
ports, the Department of Education says
that more 1 million school children were
homeless in the 2016–2017 school year, and
the Department of Agriculture (USDA) says
that 15 million households faced food insecu-
rity in 2017, meaning that they experienced
difficulty affording food.
This proposal is entirely discretionary on
the part of the Administration. No statute or
regulation requires it to alter the method-
ology for updating the poverty line. Rather,
the Administration is choosing to consider a
policy that would weaken basic assistance
programs and thereby increase hardship.
The Administration is considering using a
lower inflation measure to adjust the pov-
erty line while wholly ignoring other ques-
tions about the adequacy of the poverty line
as a measure of whether households can
meet basic needs. And, it has failed to put
forward evidence about whether the chained
CPI itself accurately captures changes in the
cost of living for low-income households.
Indeed, the issue of what measure to use in
adjusting the poverty line for inflation is
only one of a number of questions about the
poverty line and the official poverty meas-
ure. Considerable research over the years—
including a major report by the National
Academy of Sciences (NAS)—has identified a
number of ways in which the poverty line ap-
pears to be inadequate. For example, the
poverty line doesn’t fully include certain
costs that many low-income families face
like child care. In accordance with the guid-
ance of the NAS panel, federal analysts
worked carefully with researchers over a
number of years to develop the Supplemental
Poverty Measure (SPM), which more fully
measures the cost of current basic living ex-
penses. With this more careful accounting,
the SPM’s poverty line is higher than the of-
ficial poverty line for most types of house-
holds, and its poverty rate is slightly higher
than the official poverty rate.
Another indication that the poverty line is
too low is the high rate of hardship among
families with incomes just above that mark-
er. Near-poor families, using today’s poverty
line, face high rates of food insecurity, dif-
ficulty paying rent and utilities, and high
rates of uninsurance.
The Administration’s announcement, how-
ever, ignores all other issues regarding pov-
erty measurement that the NAS and other
analysts have raised and cherry-picks just
one issue—the measure used to adjust for in-
flation—to focus on in isolation. Simply
switching to a lower inflation measure would
likely make the poverty line less rather than
more accurate as a measure of what families
need to get by.
Moreover, it is not at all clear that the
chained CPI is a better measure of inflation
for low-income households’ basic living ex-
penses, even if we had a poverty measure
that measured those living expenses more
adequately. Research on different inflation
measures generally focuses on the best way
to measure inflation for the economy and
consumers overall. But the consumption pat-
terns of low-income households—and their
ability to change their consumption in re-
sponse to changes in prices—may be different
from those of typical consumers. A recent
study indicates that inflation tends to rise
faster for low-income households than for
the population as a whole. As just one exam-
ple, housing costs comprise a significantly
larger share of low-income households’ budg-
ets, on average, than they do for middle- and
upper-income households. And Labor Depart-
ment data show that costs for rental hous-
ing, which low-income people rely on dis-
proportionately, have been rising faster than
the overall CPI.
The Administration has floated this pro-
posal through a ‘‘Request for Comment’’—es-
sentially a request for the public to provide
information and views to the federal govern-
ment on this potential change. But the Ad-
ministration presented no research on how
low-income families’ costs for basic neces-
sities has changed over time, the adequacy of
the poverty line itself as compared to the
cost of basic necessities, or the implications
of changing the poverty line for individuals’
and families’ access to needed assistance.
Asking for public comment in apparent prep-
aration for a policy change that could harm
millions of struggling Americans over time,
without providing the public with research
and data on these basic questions, suggests
this is not a serious effort to explore the im-
portant substantive issues that poverty
measurement presents.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
is a nonprofit, nonpartisan research organi-
zation and policy institute that conducts re-
search and analysis on a range of govern-
ment policies and programs. It is supported
primarily by foundation grants.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague, the co-anchor for
this hour. This has been a very enlight-
ening topic for us to bring attention to.
Each one of us has constituents who
are impacted, to whom we speak on a
regular basis. We cannot allow this ad-
ministration to make this type of an
executive order and not have the con-
sequences explained to the American
people.
That is what tonight was all about.
Sometimes the other side questioned
President Obama making executive or-
ders. Well, this executive order that
President Trump is proposing directly
impacts the working poor in this coun-
try. We cannot allow that to happen.
We cannot allow children who are
homeless, families who are struggling,
and the working poor who are trying to
do everything they can to keep it to-
gether to be impacted by this mis-
guided, reckless, and totally unneces-
sary rule change being proposed by the
Trump administration.
Again, we urge the American public
to have their voice heard and submit
their comments by June 21 or contact
their Member of Congress.
We are fighting on their behalf, but
we need to make sure that every Mem-
ber in this body understands the impli-
cations of this proposed rule change.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 1500, CONSUMERS FIRST
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 1994, SETTING
EVERY COMMUNITY UP FOR RE-
TIREMENT ENHANCEMENT ACT
OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR PRO-
CEEDINGS DURING THE PERIOD
FROM MAY 24, 2019, THROUGH
MAY 31, 2019; AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
Mr. PERLMUTTER (during the Spe-
cial Order of Ms. PLASKETT), from the
Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 116–79) on the
resolution (H. Res. 389) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1500) to
require the Consumer Financial Pro-
tection Bureau to meet its statutory
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.053 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4006 May 20, 2019
purpose, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 1994) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to encourage retire-
ment savings, and for other purposes;
providing for proceedings during the
period from May 24, 2019, through May
31, 2019; and for other purposes, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
RECOGNIZING RACQUEL ASA IN
HONOR OF ASIAN AMERICAN
AND PACIFIC ISLANDER MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. SOTO) for
30 minutes.
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Racquel
Asa.
Racquel Asa is an anchor and re-
porter for WFTV Eyewitness News in
Orlando, Florida.
Racquel’s parents both came from
the Philippines in pursuit of careers in
the medical profession. She is a wife
and mother to two young children, and
she is proud to call central Florida her
home.
She has been a journalist for nearly
15 years in New York and Florida. Dur-
ing her time in Orlando, she covers all
things transportation in central Flor-
ida, from I–4 to SunRail to the growing
need to make roads safer. She has been
tapped by the Central Florida Express-
way Authority and
DriveSmartFlorida.org to create a re-
gional campaign to make our roads
safer.
She was recently recognized, in May,
by the Federal Highway Administra-
tion for her efforts to raise awareness
for both drivers and construction work-
ers in work zones.
She is also an Emmy-nominated jour-
nalist who has been recognized for her
investigations into red light cameras
and breaking news traffic reports.
She is active in the community and
participates in events every year to
help organize and raise money for good
organizations, causes, and missions.
She has helped Second Harvest Food
Bank, Embrace Families, and the local
chapters of the Muscular Dystrophy
Association and American Diabetes As-
sociation raise hundreds of thousands
of dollars by emceeing their events.
Most recently, she helped Tour de Cure
Lake Nona break national records,
raising more than $1 million to help
fund diabetes research.
For that, we recognize Ms. Racquel
Asa.
RECOGNIZING COCO JOHNSTON IN HONOR OF
ASIAN AMERICAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Coco John-
ston.
Coco Johnston moved from Honolulu,
Hawaii, to southern California and has
called Clermont, Florida, her home for
the past 12 years.
She currently works in marketing for
Metro Title Group, located in Metro
West, where she facilitates real estate
closings. She has been in the title clos-
ing and home warranty industry for
over 40 years.
Her activities include being the cur-
rent president of the Asian American
Chamber of Commerce in central Flor-
ida. The organization’s vision is to help
its members prosper, grow, and serve
as a bridge between many Asian Amer-
ican communities. They provide lead-
ership, support, and encouragement to
the Asian American business commu-
nity of the greater Orlando region.
She is also a member of the Asian
Real Estate Association of America,
where she is dedicated to promoting
sustainable homeownership opportuni-
ties in Asian American communities by
creating a powerful national voice for
housing and real estate professionals
who serve the market.
Ms. Johnston and her husband, John,
have been married for 33 years. They
have a blended family with their
daughter, Amber, and their two grand-
daughters, Bailey and Charlie.
For that, we honor Ms. Coco John-
ston.
RECOGNIZING DR. YALCIN AKIN IN HONOR OF
ASIAN AMERICAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Dr. Yalcin
Akin.
Dr. Yalcin Akin is the founder and
executive director of Orlando, Semi-
nole, and Osceola science charter
schools, a group of tuition-free public
charter schools that focus on science,
technology, engineering, and math edu-
cation.
Dr. Akin earned his master’s of
science and Ph.D. from the University
of Florida in materials science and en-
gineering.
Prior to founding Orlando Science
Schools, Dr. Akin worked with the Na-
tional Science Foundation and Depart-
ment of Energy, supporting numerous
projects at the National High Magnetic
Field Laboratory in Tallahassee.
The Orlando Science Schools serve a
diverse K–12 population of more than
2,500 students at four campuses in Or-
ange, Seminole, and Osceola Counties.
Since opening in 2008, Orlando
Science Schools has been consistently
ranked as one of the best schools in the
State of Florida and is also ranked
among the top 100 most challenging
high schools by The Washington Post.
It currently stands in the top 15 per-
cent of all schools in the State of Flor-
ida. It also has been ranked in the top
500 by U.S. News & World Report.
Dr. Akin is an active member of the
Florida Consortium of Public Charter
Schools. He is a frequent speaker on
the topic of high-quality charter school
education and regularly participates in
the annual Florida charter school con-
ferences.
For that, we honor Dr. Akin.
RECOGNIZING NUREN DURRE HAIDER IN HONOR
OF ASIAN AMERICAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER
MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Nuren
Durre Haider.
Nuren Durre Haider, Esq., is a proud
American-born Muslim Bangladeshi
woman. She is a wife, the mother of
three beautiful children, and an attor-
ney.
She received her bachelor’s degree in
political science with a minor in busi-
ness administration and education
from the University of Florida and her
juris doctorate degree from Florida
A&M University College of Law.
Nuren Durre Haider is a believer in
empowerment and representation for
all. She is focused on getting her com-
munity involved in the electoral and
political process and was the first
Bangladeshi and Muslim to run for Or-
ange County Commission in her dis-
trict.
She is an advocate for equality, the
environment, a living wage, affordable
healthcare, banning assault weapons,
raising awareness for mental health
issues, raising teacher salaries, and
other issues that affect the day-to-day
lives of Americans. Along with this,
Nuren dedicates her time to various
interfaith and cultural events.
b 2045
Currently, Nuren practices trans-
actional law and is serving her second
term as vice chairwoman of the Orange
County Democratic Party. She is ap-
pointed to the Judiciary Committee of
the Florida Democratic Party, the cen-
tral Florida regional director for the
American Muslim Democratic Caucus,
an active member of the Democratic
Women’s Club of West Orange, and
holds many other memberships and
board positions.
And for that, Ms. Nuren Durre
Haider, Esq., we honor you.
RECOGNIZING AKM HOSSAIN IN HONOR OF ASIAN
AMERICAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Akm
Hossain. Akm Hossain was born in Ban-
gladesh in September of 1961. He went
to school and college in Bangladesh. He
came to the United States as a foreign
student at Daytona Beach Community
College, where he finished his AA de-
gree in business management.
He is a business professional, cur-
rently living in Osceola County with
his wife, Roksana Hossain, and their
children. He has been involved with dif-
ferent kinds of social and cultural ac-
tivities since day one in America. He
was elected president of the largest
Bangladeshi American social organiza-
tion in central Florida.
Akm Hossain is the first Bangladeshi
American ever to run for public office
in the city of Kissimmee, and he is he
an active member the Osceola Demo-
cratic Party. He has also organized the
Asian Food Music and Cultural Fes-
tival, the largest multicultural event
in central Florida.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.055 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4007
May 20, 2019
He has been awarded Best Commu-
nity Leader by the Central Florida
Bangladeshi American Community five
times in a row, and Great Community
Leader for his social service and con-
tributions toward the community by
the North American Bangladeshi
union.
Akm Hossain has dedicated his whole
life to uplift the Asian American com-
munity and the welfare of its people,
and he serves to promote peace, unity,
and life throughout the community.
And for that, Mr. Akm Hossain, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING JAN GAUTAM IN HONOR OF ASIAN
AMERICAN AND PACIFIC ISLANDER MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Month, I want to recognize Jan
Gautam. Mr. Gautam is identified best
as a hands-on executive known for
strategic approaches in achieving fa-
vorable results for hotel owners, busi-
ness colleagues, and numerous founda-
tions to which he belongs.
After completing his master’s degree
in hospitality management, he pursued
employment as a hotel director for
Carnival and Hawaii Luxury Cruise
Lines, before moving to the hotel in-
dustry.
As founder of GI Hotels Group in 2004,
Mr. Gautam tailored a modern ap-
proach to hospitality management.
After he founded GI Hotels, Mr.
Gautam merged this company with
Interessant Hotels & Resort Manage-
ment, where he currently serves as
president and CEO. Interessant has be-
come a leading hotel management
company within the United States,
Latin America, the Caribbean, and
India.
Additionally, Mr. Gautam has over-
seen more than $300 million in renova-
tions and $450 million in new develop-
ment of hospitality projects over the
past 5 years. He has achieved recogni-
tion and served on committees such as
the Asian American Hotel Owners As-
sociation as a regional ambassador,
Board of Directors with Visit Florida,
the Florida Restaurant and Lodging
Association, Rollins College Inter-
national Advisory Board, and numer-
ous local chapters to support tourism
and governmental interaction.
And for that, Mr. Jan Gautam, we
honor you.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
SENATE BILLS REFERRED
Bills of the Senate of the following
titles were taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 744. An act to amend section 175b of title
18, United States Code, to correct a scriv-
ener’s error; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
S. 820. An act to strengthen programs au-
thorized under the Debbie Smith Act of 2004;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
S. 998. An act to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to ex-
pand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I move that
the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 49 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, May 21, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the first quarter
of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–184, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Travel to Germany, February 14–17, 2019 with
CODEL Graham
Hon. William M. ‘‘Mac’’ Thornberry ......................... 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. James Langevin .............................................. 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. Michael R. Turner ........................................... 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. Mike Gallagher ................................................ 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. Jim Banks ....................................................... 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. Elissa Slotkin .................................................. 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Hon. Elise Stephanik ............................................... 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,719.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,719.00
Travel to Belgium, February 17–21, 2019 with
CODEL Connelly
Hon. Joe Wilson ....................................................... 2/17 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,289.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,289.15
Travel to Germany, Kosovo, Israel, Djibouti, Ethi-
opia, Burundi, Rwanda, Algeria, Spain, Feb-
ruary 14–25, 2019 with CODEL Inhofe
Hon. Trent Kelly ....................................................... 2/15 2/16 Germany ................................................ .................... 515.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 515.35
2/16 2/18 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 366.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 366.17
2/18 2/20 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,039.02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,039.02
2/20 2/20 Djibouti ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
2/20 2/22 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... 791.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 791.50
2/22 2/22 Burundi ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
2/22 2/23 Rwanda ................................................. .................... 362.78 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 362.78
2/23 2/24 Algeria .................................................. .................... 283.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 283.08
2/24 2/25 Spain .................................................... .................... 215.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 215.68
Travel to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Feb-
ruary 15–19, 2019 with CODEL Carper
Hon. Donald Norcross .............................................. 2/15 2/17 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 322.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 322.70
2/17 2/17 Honduras .............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
2/17 2/19 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 280.93 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 280.93
Commercial Transportation ............................ ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,933.25 .................... .................... .................... 1,933.25
Travel to Cameroon, February 18–22, 2019
Chidi Blyden ............................................................ 2/20 2/21 Cameroon .............................................. .................... 645.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 645.38
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,262.93 .................... .................... .................... 18,262.93
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 2/20 2/21 Cameroon .............................................. .................... 645.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 645.38
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 17,933.93 .................... .................... .................... 17,933.93
Travel to Belgium, Germany, February 17–23,
2019
Hon. Filemon Vela ................................................... 2/17 2/20 Belgium ................................................ .................... 920.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 920.63
2/20 2/23 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,587.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,587.82
Commercial Transportation ............................ ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,351.88 .................... .................... .................... 1,351.88
Brian Garrett ........................................................... 2/19 2/20 Belgium ................................................ .................... 659.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 659.47
2/20 2/23 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,587.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,587.82
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,332.98 .................... .................... .................... 2,332.98
Travel to Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, March 14–25, 2019
Hon. John Garamendi .............................................. 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,202.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.37
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
3/19 3/21 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 847.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.56
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53
Hon. Debra Haaland ................................................ 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,202.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.37
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K20MY7.057 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4008 May 20, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
3/19 3/21 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 847.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.56
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53
Hon. Veronica Escobar ............................................ 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,090.54 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,090.54
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,436.03 .................... .................... .................... 10,436.03
Brian Garrett ........................................................... 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,202.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.37
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
3/19 3/21 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 847.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.56
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53
Thomas Hawley ........................................................ 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,202.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.37
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
3/19 3/21 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 847.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.56
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53
Hon. Jonathan Lord ................................................. 3/15 3/18 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,202.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.37
3/18 3/19 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 11.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11.00
3/19 3/21 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 847.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.56
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,857.53
Travel to Germany, March 13–22, 2019 with
STAFFDEL Barker
Chidi Blyden ............................................................ 3/18 3/20 Germany ................................................ .................... 867.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 867.98
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,231.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,231.63
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 3/18 3/20 Germany ................................................ .................... 867.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 867.98
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,231.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,231.63
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 36,688.01 .................... 111,001.91 .................... .................... .................... 147,689.92
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ADAM SMITH, May 6, 2019.
(AMENDED) REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31,
2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Karen Bass** .................................................. 2/8 2/11 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Brad Sherman** ............................................. 2/8 2/11 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Ilhan Omar** .................................................. 2/8 2/11 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Janette Yearwood** ........................................ 2/8 2/11 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Karen Bass* .................................................... 3/1 3/3 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... 788.96 .................... 8,442.03 .................... 734.28 .................... 9,965.27
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/2 3/3 Eritrea ................................................... .................... 221.64 .................... .................... .................... 5,226.04 .................... 5,447.68
Janette Yearwood ..................................................... 3/1 3/3 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... 788.96 .................... 8,442.03 .................... .................... .................... 9,230.99
3/2 3/3 Eritrea ................................................... .................... 221.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 221.63
Hon. Ilhan Omar ...................................................... 3/1 3/1 Ethiopia ................................................ .................... 618.96 .................... 12,660.03 .................... .................... .................... 13,278.99
3/2 3/3 Eritrea ................................................... .................... 113.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 113.64
Hon. Tom Malinowski .............................................. 2/14 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 760.59 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 760.59
Hon. Lee Zeldin ....................................................... 2/15 2/17 Germany ................................................ .................... 826.06 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 826.06
2/17 2/18 France ................................................... .................... 793.33 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 793.33
2/18 2/20 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 515.22 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 515.22
2/20 2/23 Austria .................................................. .................... 1,686.16 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,686.16
Mira Resnick ............................................................ 2/17 2/20 UAE ....................................................... .................... 1,111.94 .................... 11,858.79 .................... .................... .................... 12,970.73
2/20 2/22 Saudi Arabia ......................................... .................... 968.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.57
Hon. Eliot Engel ....................................................... 3/28 2/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... 13,974.00 .................... 14,333.00
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 533.00 .................... (3) .................... 2,310.28 .................... 2,843.28
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... 3,224.00 .................... 3,468.00
Hon. Michael McCaul .............................................. 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 415.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 415.00
Hon. Adriano Espaillat ............................................ 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 533.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 533.00
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Hon. John Curtis ...................................................... 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 533.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 533.00
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Eric Jacobstein ........................................................ 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 509.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 509.90
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Janice Kaguyutan .................................................... 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 509.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 509.90
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Rachel Levitan ......................................................... 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 509.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 509.90
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Samantha Stiles ...................................................... 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 509.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 509.00
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Carlos Monje ............................................................ 3/28 3/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... 359.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 359.00
3/29 3/31 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 509.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 509.00
3/31 4/1 Mexico ................................................... .................... 244.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 244.00
Tim Mulvey* ............................................................ 3/16 3/18 UAE ....................................................... .................... 828.76 .................... 4,716.53 .................... 167.73 .................... 5,713.02
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/18 3/20 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 762.62 .................... .................... .................... 70.00 .................... 832.62
3/20 3/22 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 721.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 721.00
Peter Billerbeck ....................................................... 3/16 3/18 UAE ....................................................... .................... 828.76* .................... 3,183.83 .................... .................... .................... 4,012.59
3/18 3/20 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 762.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 762.82
3/20 3/22 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 721.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 721.00
Ryan Doherty ........................................................... 3/16 3/18 UAE ....................................................... .................... 828.85 .................... 4,716.53 .................... .................... .................... 5,545.38
3/18 3/20 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 762.54 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 762.54
3/20 3/22 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 724.34 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 724.34
Lesley Warner .......................................................... 3/15 3/16 Switzerland ........................................... .................... 469.32 .................... 11,656.83 .................... .................... .................... 12,126.15
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/16 3/17 Kenya .................................................... .................... 267.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,050.00 .................... 1,317.00
3/17 3/19 Somalia ................................................. .................... 132.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 132.00
3/19 3/20 Kenya .................................................... .................... 266.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 266.00
Delegation expenses* ..................................... 3/20 3/22 Sudan ................................................... .................... 773.68 .................... .................... .................... 104.55 .................... 878.23
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 28,010.85 .................... 65,676.60 .................... 26,860.88 .................... 120,548.33
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transporation.
* Indicates Delegation costs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.006 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4009
May 20, 2019
** Indicates a cancelled mission
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL, May 2, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. MARK TAKANO, May 6, 2019.
h
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2326. A bill to amend the Social
Security Act, to amend the Dignified Burial
and Other Veterans’ Benefits Improvement
Act of 2012, and to direct the Secretaries of
Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor, and Home-
land Security, and the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, to take cer-
tain actions to improve transition assistance
to members of the Armed Forces who sepa-
rate, retire, or are discharged from the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–73, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 2480. A bill to reau-
thorize the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–74). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 1812. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to furnish Vet Center re-
adjustment counseling and related mental
health services to certain individuals; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–75). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 1947. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to exempt transfers of
funds from Federal agencies to the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs for nonprofit cor-
porations established under subchapter IV of
chapter 73 of such title from certain provi-
sions of the Economy Act; with amendments
(Rept. 116–76). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2340. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to provide to Congress
notice of any suicide or attempted suicide of
a veteran in a Department of Veterans Af-
fairs facility, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–77). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mrs. LOWEY: Committee on Appropria-
tions. H.R. 2839. A bill making appropria-
tions for Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–78). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. PERLMUTTER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 389. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1500) to re-
quire the Consumer Financial Protection Bu-
reau to meet its statutory purpose, and for
other purposes; providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1994) to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to encourage retire-
ment savings, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for proceedings during the period
from May 24, 2019, through May 31, 2019; and
for other purposes (Rept. 116–79). Referred to
the House Calendar.
Mrs. LOWEY: Committee on Appropria-
tions. Revised Suballocation of Budget Allo-
cations for Fiscal Year 2020 (Rept. 116–80).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Armed Services and
Ways and Means discharged from fur-
ther consideration. H.R. 2326 referred
to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 2837. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, relating to sentencing of armed
career criminals; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself and
Mr. KEATING):
H.R. 2838. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a grant program
for projects to strengthen and protect vul-
nerable infrastructure used during mass
evacuations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 2840. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to treat certain first re-
sponder survivors benefits as earned income
for purposes of the kiddie tax; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 2841. A bill to amend title 35, United
States Code, with respect to actions for pat-
ent infringement, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CROW (for himself, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
and Ms. DELAURO):
H.R. 2842. A bill to prohibit any limitation
on the entry of a Member of Congress to any
facility for the detention of aliens, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Homeland Security, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
COHEN, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. POCAN, Ms. GABBARD,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Mr. CRIST, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. SOTO, Mr. GRIJALVA,
and Mr. TED LIEU of California):
H.R. 2843. A bill to decriminalize mari-
juana, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on the Judiciary,
Natural Resources, Agriculture, Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, and Small Busi-
ness, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 2844. A bill to amend the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act to provide
funding, on a competitive basis, for summer
and year-round employment opportunities
for youth ages 14 through 24; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 2845. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the work oppor-
tunity credit for certain youth employees,
and to extend empowerment zones; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. HIGGINS of
Louisiana, Mr. BERGMAN, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. MARSHALL, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
STIVERS, Ms. NORTON, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. KIND, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
and Mr. BILIRAKIS):
H.R. 2846. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to permit Members of Con-
gress to use facilities of the Department of
Veterans Affairs for the purposes of meeting
with constituents, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, and Mr. CONNOLLY):
H.R. 2847. A bill to waive the fee for the
issuance of a passport for a family member
of a member of the Armed Forces who is in
a hospital or medical facility abroad, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire):
H.R. 2848. A bill to amend the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to
strengthen parity in mental health and sub-
stance use disorder benefits, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mr.
KING of New York):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.006 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4010 May 20, 2019
H.R. 2849. A bill to permit law enforcement
officers of the Department of the Treasury to
carry service weapons to their place of resi-
dence while off duty, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services, and
in addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 2850. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to ensure that healthy
research dogs and cats are adopted into suit-
able homes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. ADAMS,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. RUSH, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and
Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 2851. A bill to provide safeguards with
respect to the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion criminal background checks prepared
for employment purposes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 2852. A bill to amend the National
Housing Act to authorize State-licensed ap-
praisers to conduct appraisals in connection
with mortgages insured by the FHA and to
require compliance with the existing ap-
praiser education requirement, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 2853. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to require corpora-
tions to report disbursements made by for-
eign nationals for purposes of disseminating
campaign-related public communications
and to inquire whether persons providing
such disbursements are foreign nationals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. COHEN, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. BONAMICI,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mrs. RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 2854. A bill to amend the National
Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act
of 1966 to prohibit the use of neonicotinoids
in a National Wildlife Refuge, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Ms.
CHENEY, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, and Mr. GAETZ):
H. Res. 390. A resolution opposing the lift-
ing of sanctions imposed with respect to Iran
without addressing Iran’s nuclear program,
ballistic missile development, support for
terrorism, and other destabilizing activities;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
54. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the General Assembly of the State of Geor-
gia, relative to Senate Resolution 466, com-
mending the 75th anniversary of the WWII
Merrill’s Marauders mission and urging the
United States Congress to award the Con-
gressional Gold Medal to Merrill’s Maraud-
ers; which was referred to the Committee on
Financial Services.
55. Also, a memorial of the General Assem-
bly of the State of Georgia, relative to Sen-
ate Resolution 276, urging Congress to elimi-
nate the five-month waiting period for dis-
ability insurance benefits for individuals liv-
ing with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS); which was referred to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
56. Also, a memorial of the General Assem-
bly of the State of Georgia, relative to Sen-
ate Resolution 114, urging Congress to pass
funding legislation that will secure the
southern border of the United States; which
was referred jointly to the Committees on
the Judiciary, Transportation and Infra-
structure, Ways and Means, and Homeland
Security.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. KING OF IOWA introduced a bill
(H.R. 2855) to deem the application
submitted by Jaci Hermstad to the
Food and Drug Administration for
compassionate use of the gene ther-
apy antisense oligonucleotides to be
approved; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 2837.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers and all powers vested
by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 2838.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 2840.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States;
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 2841.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 2842.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H.R. 2843.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 18.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 2844.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 2845.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 2846.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other powers vested by the Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or officer thereof.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 2847.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 2848.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2849.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 2850.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 2851.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 & Clause 18
of the Constitution
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 2852.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 2853.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4; Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 3 and 18
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 2854.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2855.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L20MY7.100 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4011
May 20, 2019
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors were
added to public bills and resolutions, as fol-
lows:
H.R. 6: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 95: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 120: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 200: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 216: Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. BALDERSON, and Mr.
COLE.
H.R. 218: Mr. NUNES, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
and Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 275: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 336: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. TIPTON, and
Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 400: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 436: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 500: Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. SCHIFF,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. BACON, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. AUS-
TIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr.
WENSTRUP.
H.R. 535: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 553: Mr. CORREA, Mr. BABIN, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mrs. HAYES, and Mr.
NEAL.
H.R. 555: Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. KILMER, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mrs.
LURIA, and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 585: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 586: Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. ROUZER, and
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina.
H.R. 598: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, and Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 621: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. FER-
GUSON, Mr. GAETZ, and Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 647: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 649: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 651: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 655: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 661: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 683: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 692: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 693: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. HOYER, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
MOORE, and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 724: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 748: Mr. REED, Ms. GRANGER, Mr.
TIMMONS, Mr. PENCE, and Mr. HIGGINS of
Louisiana.
H.R. 753: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 763: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 803: Mr. ALLEN, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr.
HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 864: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 913: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 919: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 929: Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. MCADAMS,
Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 935: Mr. RICHMOND and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 945: Mrs. HARTZLER and Ms. BROWNLEY
of California.
H.R. 948: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 961: Mr. STEWART and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 963: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 985: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 997: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 1024: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1042: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1049: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 1055: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 1058: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mrs.
BEATTY.
H.R. 1108: Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
KENNEDY, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1139: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1154: Mr. VARGAS, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. ADAMS, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1155: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1163: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 1175: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. MARSHALL,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. PERRY, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. JOHNSON of South
Dakota, Mr. TURNER, Mr. GIBBS, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. GUEST, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr.
STANTON, Mr. WALKER, Mrs. LURIA, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. CASE, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, and Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 1179: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 1217: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1225: Mr. WILLIAMS and Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts.
H.R. 1230: Ms. NORTON, Ms. BASS, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1236: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1305: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1309: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. BASS,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. TONKO, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and Ms.
DELBENE.
H.R. 1334: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 1335: Mr. HUFFMAN and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1342: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 1349: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1374: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1376: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 1380: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1407: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1412: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1423: Mr. STANTON and Ms. DAVIDS of
Kansas.
H.R. 1424: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1441: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1456: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1458: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1551: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1554: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
GUEST, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1588: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1605: Mrs. WAGNER and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1607: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1629: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 1695: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Ms. GABBARD, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1709: Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. ROUDA, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 1717: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Mr.
PAYNE.
H.R. 1730: Mr. GUEST, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. GOODEN, and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1733: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 1749: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1753: Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. ROUZER, and
Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 1778: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 1781: Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs. CRAIG, and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1786: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1812: Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 1830: Mr. WALBERG, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
ROGERS of Kentucky.
H.R. 1850: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1863: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 1903: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
and Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1911: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1923: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
MENG, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. BASS, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr.
SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1928: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1943: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1959: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 1962: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1970: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1979: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 1989: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 2001: Mr. POSEY, Ms. WILD, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. BACON, and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2006: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2010: Mr. ROUZER and Mr. RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 2015: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 2046: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 2051: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2056: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2060: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 2069: Ms. SLOTKIN and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2074: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr.
SOTO.
H.R. 2086: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 2096: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. BUCHANAN, and
Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 2116: Mr. KIM, Mr. KIND, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. CASE, and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 2140: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2148: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2149: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2151: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2161: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 2169: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2218: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2266: Mr. RATCLIFFE and Mr.
LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 2314: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2315: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2326: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. TAYLOR, and
Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2329: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2336: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 2340: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2343: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2349: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2354: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Mr. CARSON
of Indiana.
H.R. 2381: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 2382: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and
Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2388: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 2408: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2424: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. SPEIER,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. SOTO, and Ms.
ESHOO.
H.R. 2430: Mr. KENNEDY and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 2433: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. ROSE of New York, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2435: Mr. WELCH, Mr. WALBERG, and
Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 2441: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2442: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 2443: Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. GOODEN, and Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 2445: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 2453: Mr. DUFFY.
H.R. 2460: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 2473: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr. PA-
NETTA.
H.R. 2480: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Ms. PORTER, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
FINKENAUER, and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2481: Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
BEYER, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mrs. BUSTOS,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.027 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4012 May 20, 2019
Mr. ESTES, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. MEUSER, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. BASS, and
Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2482: Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. WILD, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. KIM, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, and Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 2489: Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2493: Mr. STIVERS and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 2508: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 2509: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 2513: Mr. BEYER and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2517: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2557: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2576: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2577: Ms. NORTON, Mr. SOTO, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2585: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2602: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. TLAIB, and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2635: Mrs. BEATTY and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2646: Ms. OMAR, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. LEE
of California, and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2662: Ms. PRESSLEY and Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois.
H.R. 2679: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2720: Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2729: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. OMAR, and
Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2741: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2742: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 2765: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 2771: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. MARSHALL, and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 2775: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. WILD, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. MENG, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. SPEIER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Ms. OMAR, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. RYAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2776: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2777: Ms. MOORE and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 2785: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2803: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2806: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2809: Mr. POCAN, Ms. BONAMICI, and
Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2810: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. CRIST, Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas, and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 60: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H. Res. 106: Mr. KING of New York.
H. Res. 114: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia.
H. Res. 134: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H. Res. 163: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 189: Mr. KING of Iowa and Mr.
YOUNG.
H. Res. 231: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H. Res. 255: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H. Res. 285: Mr. COHEN, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
MAST, Mr. KINZINGER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. CASE, Mr. BUCK, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. TITUS,
Mr. CHABOT, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H. Res. 325: Mr. POCAN, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs.
CRAIG, and Mrs. LOWEY.
H. Res. 337: Mr. TRONE.
H. Res. 338: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H. Res. 373: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 383: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H. Res. 384: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
19. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
Texas, relative to urging Congress to refrain
from enacting any legislation which would
repeal existing Federal law that presently
requires persons from outside of the United
States, and who are not American citizens,
to undergo formal procedures to be lawfully
present in the United States for purposes of
temporary employment, to attend an edu-
cational institution, to become a legal per-
manent resident, or to become a naturalized
U.S. citizen; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY7.031 H20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2951
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MAY 20, 2019 No. 84
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal King, unto whom all hearts
are open, come to us in the purity of
Your presence, and make us what we
ought to be.
Guide our lawmakers. Show them
what needs to be changed, and give
them the courage and wisdom to make
the appropriate adjustments. Lord, in
all their labors, help them to yield
themselves to Your will so that this
legislative branch may fulfill Your pur-
poses for humanity. Quicken their
thinking and reinforce their judgment
until their decisions bring glory to
Your Name. May Your grace be suffi-
cient for all their needs.
We pray in Your wonderful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
(The remarks of Mr. MCCONNELL and
Mr. KAINE pertaining to the introduc-
tion of S. 1541 are printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Statements on Intro-
duced Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’)
With that, I yield the floor.
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak for up to
10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
f
NATIONAL FOSTER CARE MONTH
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to speak about two
different subjects. One of them will be
just 1 minute, and that deals with the
fact that May is National Foster Care
Month. I want to mention a couple of
things about foster care because of my
work in that area for the last 25 years.
I have often heard from young people
that they wish someone had helped
their parents so that they could have
stayed together as a family. We can
work in Congress to improve the foster
care system, but, ultimately, kids need
a family.
That is why I was proud to support
the Family First Prevention Services
Act. This bill will help families to stay
together by funding proven services
and support for parents. As the imple-
mentation process continues on this
new piece of legislation, I will work to
ensure that this legislation succeeds
for families across the country, be-
cause for two-and-a-half decades I have
been hearing from these young people
in foster care: I would like to have a
home, and I would like to have a mom
and dad.
f
MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS
MONTH
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, be-
sides May being National Foster Care
Month, it is also Mental Health Aware-
ness Month. This month of May gives
us an opportunity to increase public
awareness about the challenges faced
by those struggling with mental ill-
ness. It also encourages us to consider
reforms to policies that affect these in-
dividuals as well as their friends and
family members.
Almost one in five adults in the
United States copes with mental ill-
ness in any given year, and roughly 20
million Americans struggle with sub-
stance abuse disorder, and less than
half will get the treatment that they
need.
In the 114th Congress, the previous
one, I cosponsored and led the Judici-
ary Committee in approving legislation
to update and extend the Mentally Ill
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduc-
tion Act. Up to half of our Nation’s
prison population may suffer from
mental illness. Jails and prisons hold
10 times as many people with mental
illness than hospitals do, according to
the National Sheriffs’ Association.
In the 115th Congress, I introduced
and led the Senate in adopting reforms
to tackle substance abuse, mental
health, and other issues that may drive
children and teenagers into the juve-
nile justice system. These reforms,
which recently were enacted as part of
the Juvenile Justice Reform Act, en-
courages States to devote Federal
grants to improving treatment of juve-
nile offenders with mental illness and
substance abuse. The enactment of
these two measures is very important,
but even saying that, we still have lots
of work to do in the area of substance
abuse and mental illness.
First, lack of mental health re-
sources poses a huge challenge. Now I
am chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee. I intend to be committed
to this area and explore new options
for increasing access to quality mental
healthcare.
Second, we still have a long way to
go to promote parity in mental health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.000 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2952 May 20, 2019
and substance abuse treatment. I am
committed to building upon existing
efforts and finding new ways to end the
stigma attached to mental health dis-
eases.
Third, experts tell us that it is im-
portant to standardize care for behav-
ioral health and addiction medicines.
Fourth, we may need to equip doc-
tors with more tools to respond to the
opioid epidemic that has gripped the
Nation and takes the lives of 130 Amer-
icans every day. For example, Federal
regulations prevent a patient’s doctor
from reviewing that patient’s sub-
stance abuse records. This policy is in-
tended, appropriately, to protect pa-
tient privacy, and that is a very impor-
tant goal, but if it hinders coordination
of care, we may have reasons to be con-
cerned. In some cases, doctors must
have access to a patient’s entire med-
ical history in order to adequately rec-
ognize, respond to, and treat the symp-
toms of addiction.
I hope my colleagues in the Senate
will join me in identifying bipartisan
solutions to these issues. Doing so will
help to improve the lives of many
Americans who struggle with mental
health and substance abuse disorders.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
S. 820
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, one of
the favorite parts of my job is wel-
coming Texans to Washington to talk
about issues that they care passion-
ately about. Something I have noticed,
though, is that it doesn’t matter if
they are here to talk about healthcare,
taxes, infrastructure, or fever ticks.
The same question always seems to
come up. They say: Judging by what I
see in the news, it looks like nothing
ever gets done around here; is that
true?
I always remind them that com-
promise and agreement is not exactly
clickbait. So while some of the bills we
are working on may not consume Twit-
ter feeds, there is a lot of great work
being done here on a daily basis.
One example of that great work came
last Thursday when the Senate passed
the Debbie Smith Act of 2019, a major
bipartisan achievement that would
support victims of sexual assault
across the country.
I would be negligent if I didn’t ac-
knowledge the Presiding Officer’s con-
tribution to that great effort in the
Senate Judiciary Committee, for which
I am grateful.
The namesake of this bill is an in-
credibly brave woman whom I have had
the pleasure of getting to know over
the years, and I admire her tremen-
dously. Debbie Smith is a fierce advo-
cate for survivors of sexual assault and
a champion for victims’ rights, and she
has become one of the most prominent
voices in the fight to eliminate the
rape kit backlog.
Sadly, Debbie’s advocacy was born
from a personal tragedy. In 1989, she
was at home doing laundry when a
stranger broke into her home. He
blindfolded her, abducted her, and took
her to a wooded area behind her home
where he robbed and repeatedly raped
her.
She reported the crime to the police
and went to the emergency room for a
forensic exam, but as days, months,
and years passed, no answers came. She
anxiously waited for her attacker to be
identified and brought to justice, but it
would end up being years before she
saw that justice being done. Like mil-
lions of others across the country,
Debbie’s case became part of the long
list of those frozen in time because of
the debilitating rape kit backlog.
Though exact numbers are difficult
to estimate, some experts estimate
that hundreds of thousands of rape kits
remain untested in the United States—
a fact that should upset each and every
one of us. Each of those untested rape
kits represents a victim who is waiting
for answers, who has to wonder each
day who their attacker was, when will
they show up again, and where are they
now. Each piece of DNA evidence holds
the key to apprehending a violent
criminal and finally providing victims
with some peace of mind.
For Debbie, it took 61⁄2 years before
the identity of her attacker was discov-
ered. She has made it her mission in
life to ensure that no other woman has
to agonize for that long. The Debbie
Smith Act was originally signed into
law in 2004 to provide State and local
crime labs the resources they need to
end the backlog of these unsolved
crimes. Because of Debbie Smith and
the Debbie Smith Act, more than
860,000 DNA cases have been processed
and 360,000 DNA profiles have been
uploaded into the FBI’s database. This
accounts for 43 percent of all forensic
profiles in the FBI’s database.
While the original purpose for this
legislation was to reduce the rape kit
backlog, this DNA evidence can help to
identify and to convict people who
commit other types of crimes and to
take more criminals off the street. By
the way, we should note that if some-
body has been falsely accused, this
DNA evidence can exclude them as a
potential perpetrator of a crime. It
really works to benefit those falsely
accused as well.
All in all, more than $1 billion has
been provided to forensic labs because
of this law. The legislation passed by
the Senate last week will provide even
greater resources for this vital pro-
gram.
The Debbie Smith Act of 2019 will re-
authorize the important funding that
supports testing DNA evidence so we
can eliminate the rape kit backlog in
the future and someday ensure that it
will not grow again.
This reauthorization also reauthor-
izes important training for law enforce-
ment, correctional personnel, forensic
nurses, and other professionals who as-
sist victims of sexual assault. This bill
is not controversial, not partisan, and
not divisive. In fact, not a single Sen-
ator voted against it. It is exactly the
type of legislation that should get
more attention here in Washington.
I thank Senator FEINSTEIN of Cali-
fornia, who cosponsored this bill, for
working with me to get it over this
first hurdle. I now hope that the House
of Representatives will take up the
Debbie Smith Act so we can get the
legislation to the President’s desk to
provide even more victims with an-
swers and, hopefully, some peace of
mind.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO SETH PRINGLE
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise
today to honor a member of my staff,
Seth Pringle, who has dedicated his life
to serving his country and the people
of Ohio. Not only does Seth serve the
people of Ohio each day on our staff,
helping Ohio servicemembers and vet-
erans, but he also serves in uniform
himself as a member of the Army Na-
tional Guard.
This past week was his last in our of-
fice for a year. He is heading out soon
to deploy with his unit to defend our
country overseas.
Seth earned both a master’s and a
bachelor’s degree from Kent State Uni-
versity. He didn’t stop there. He is cur-
rently pursuing a master’s in national
security from the University of Akron
while also working for our State and
serving his country.
Seth has worked in our office since
2015. He joined our team as an intern in
the Cleveland office. He impressed all
of us. He was hired first part time and
then as a full-time staff member, serv-
ing as a constituent advocate on vet-
erans and military issues.
Seth has helped hundreds of Ohio
servicemembers and veterans navigate
the military and the VA’s bureaucracy
so that they can receive the medals
and timely medical care and benefits
they earn.
About a year and a half ago, I joined
Seth and members in the community
in Cleveland to present long-overdue
medals to George Burress, a Vietnam
veteran who served as an Army infan-
tryman and earned the Combat Infan-
tryman Badge, as well as five other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.004 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2953
May 20, 2019
well-deserved honors. Mr. Burress had
never received those medals due to a
paperwork error. Because of Seth’s
work, we were finally able to present
this Ohio veteran with the honors he
had earned for serving our country.
There are so many stories like that
one of American heroes finally receiv-
ing the honors and the Federal benefits
they have earned. So many of those
stories are because of Seth’s hard
work.
Seth Pringle does so much for the
people of Ohio, and at the end of the
week, when others might look forward
to a relaxing weekend with friends and
family, Seth often is headed out for
drill with his unit.
Now Seth’s unit is deploying. While
we will miss his expertise, his dedica-
tion, and his unique perspective in the
office this year, we are so grateful for
his service to our country.
On behalf of everyone in my office
and on behalf of Ohio’s 12 million citi-
zens, we wish Seth Pringle well in his
tour overseas—and all of his unit, of
course. We thank him for his sacrifice
and his service.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
REMEMBERING DAVID MILES
KNIGHT AND BERNER RICHARD
JOHNSON III
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we
have two bits of sad news about long-
time Senate employees.
David Miles Knight, a beloved barber
in our barbershop and one of the Sen-
ate’s master barbers for the last 36
years, lost a lengthy battle with can-
cer.
His most noticeable and notable trait
was kindness—not just friendliness but
actual kindness—and a generosity of
spirit. He was always eager to ask
about a customer’s day or a colleague’s
weekend and was just as eager to re-
gale those folks with stories about his
family—of Joanne, his wife; of his
three sons; of his eight grandchildren;
and of his two great-grandchildren.
Dave’s life was filled with these peo-
ple—his friends and his family.
I offer my prayers to them now—to
Dave’s family, his friends, and his Sen-
ate family. He was considered a mem-
ber of the Senate family and had been
here for decades. He was beloved. We
miss him.
Berner Richard Johnson III, a staff
member for 30 years, known to all here
as ‘‘Bud,’’ also passed away last night.
He was a victim of a violent crime last
week in DC and recently succumbed to
the injuries this crime involved.
Bud was beloved by his Senate fam-
ily, the softball team he coached, and
his many friends and family. I offer my
prayers for Diane, his partner; for Bo,
his son; and for all who loved him and
who will miss him.
May the memory of these two men be
a blessing to their loved ones and a re-
minder to all of us that life is fleeting
and to hold tight to those we love.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on
disaster relief, millions of Americans
have waited long enough for their gov-
ernment to provide relief in the wake
of recent natural disasters. We have 1
week left in this work period. This is
crunch time. It will be an awful conclu-
sion to this work period if we leave
without passing a relief package. We
must focus on concluding our negotia-
tions and reaching consensus on our
final legislation.
That is why I am alarmed by rumors
that the Republican majority may at-
tach a simple extension of the Violence
Against Women Act to the disaster bill
rather than to the new reform bill that
was passed by a huge bipartisan major-
ity in the House. That is a formula for
deadlock when we pass it here and send
it to the House, but they will not vote
for it.
Why do we have to load up the dis-
aster bill with extraneous provisions,
especially those that might bring con-
flict?
We must be very careful not to allow
this and other extraneous provisions to
get on the bill that have opposition
from Members. It would only imperil
the success of bipartisan disaster relief.
We have come to a conclusion on Puer-
to Rico, and I am glad our Republican
friends have finally seen the light and
have not treated Puerto Rico unfairly
so that we can move forward with all
disaster relief.
The President sent over a proposal on
the border, and we have sent back a
counter proposal with many of the
things—but not all—that he included.
Some are objectionable. That is extra-
neous, but we might be able to come to
an agreement on that.
These other extraneous provisions?
Our Republican leader has said that he
wants to get this done Thursday. Well,
a surefire way of not doing it is jam-
ming the House, filling it up with pro-
visions that would not pass the House.
So let’s all roll up our sleeves, get to
work, refrain from our desires to put
other things on this must-pass bill, and
get disaster relief done. We Democrats
will work in good faith to resolve all
the remaining issues. But before the
week is out, let’s get a bill we can vote
on. Let’s deliver relief to disaster-
stricken Americans and put an end to
what has been a needlessly partisan
episode.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on
women’s health and a woman’s right to
choose and the judges we are appoint-
ing, the past week marked a low point
for our country on the issue of women’s
reproductive rights.
While an overwhelming majority of
Americans want to keep Roe v. Wade, a
total of 30 States have now sought to
restrict the rights of women to make
their own healthcare decisions, and
some would either directly or virtually
undo the Roe v. Wade decision. Ala-
bama’s Republicans have passed the
most extreme example—that is the one
I was talking about—but Republicans
in Missouri and Texas are not far be-
hind. And this is not merely a few
fringe politicians making a statement
way out of the mainstream; this is a
systematic effort by Republicans in
State legislatures to restrict women’s
reproductive rights and ultimately
overturn Roe v. Wade, even though the
vast majority of Americans don’t want
that to happen.
Meanwhile, here in the Senate, Lead-
er MCCONNELL has lined up a conveyor
belt of far-right judges who have rep-
rehensible records on women’s rights.
Last week, the Republican majority
considered a judge, Kenneth Lee of
California. Here is what he said about
sexism. He said it is ‘‘irrelevant pout-
ing.’’ Tell that to women who have
been discriminated against in so many
different ways that we read about. How
about Ms. Wendy Vitter? All of our Re-
publican friends voted to put this
woman on the bench. She once pro-
moted the idea that contraceptives
cause cancer and claimed that Planned
Parenthood kills 150,000 women a year.
Both were confirmed to lifetime ap-
pointments. It is incredible. These are
people way on the extreme—way on the
extreme.
And here comes another one. The
Senate is voting on yet another judge
with a horrendous record on women’s
rights—Mr. Daniel Collins, nominated
to the Ninth Circuit over the objection
of both of his home State Senators. He
has defended the rights of pregnancy
clinics to withhold from their patients
that they don’t provide abortion serv-
ices and filed an amicus brief in sup-
port of the Hobby Lobby’s petition to
deny its female employees contracep-
tive care. He is a longtime donor and
member of the Federalist Society, and
he has ensconced himself in one of the
most anti-choice organizations in the
entire country. Let’s make no mistake
about it—to read some of the articles
about the Federalist Society, it was
formed with the goal of curtailing
women’s rights. Many of its advocates
believe that Roe v. Wade should be re-
pealed.
Let me just call out my friends on
the Republican side. When the Ala-
bama law came about, the vast major-
ity of my friends on the other side
stayed silent about the extreme anti-
abortion measure in Alabama and some
of the other States, and then some
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.006 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2954 May 20, 2019
said: We oppose what Alabama does. At
the same time, they are
rubberstamping judges who would do
the same thing—repeal Roe. There is a
direct contradiction here. There is hy-
pocrisy. Republicans who say they
don’t like the Alabama decision and
then vote for judges who would ratify
and repeal Roe or cut back so dramati-
cally on Roe that it hardly exists are
engaged in subterfuge. They say:
Watch this hand. I am saying that I am
not that extreme. Don’t watch this
hand where I am putting extreme
judges on the bench who will do ex-
actly what I say I am opposed to.
It is outrageous. They will be caught.
It is outrageous that they are on the
bench.
f
CHINA
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, fi-
nally, on Huawei, there is positive
news about an administrative action. I
am in full support of what the Com-
merce Department did on Huawei, and
I want to give a shout-out to Google
for joining in and urge all other Amer-
ican companies to join as well. The ad-
ministration issued an Executive order
laying the groundwork to ban the pur-
chase of telecommunications equip-
ment from China’s state-controlled
firms. The decision, as I said, is having
an impact because of Google. We are
waiting for other companies to join in.
For years, China has prevented great
American technology companies like
Google, Facebook, and so many others
from operating in China. They put bar-
rier after barrier in the way because we
are better, and they know American
firms would capture the Chinese mar-
ket. They put barriers in the way, they
steal our technology and then develop
it, and then even try to sell it back
here. It has happened with computers.
It has happened with so many other
things that America and American
know-how developed.
Huawei is a national security con-
cern. It is a Chinese company that
could pry into all of us. But it is also
an excellent weapon to get China to fi-
nally start treating us fairly, which
they haven’t done for 30 years. We have
lost tens of millions of good-paying
American jobs and trillions of dollars
because of what China has done to us.
I have to say that both Democratic and
Republican administrations in the past
just sat there under some guise of free
trade, which wasn’t free or fair at all.
And now we have some weapons.
A lot of these folks—these pundits,
these critics, these editorial writers—
say tariffs is the wrong way to go.
Talking is the wrong way to go. It got
us nowhere. But one other way to go is
reciprocity.
China, we are going to treat some of
your companies the way you treat our
companies.
That is what we did with Huawei. It
was the first time I have seen some-
thing very strong. I hope the President
doesn’t back off. He did with ZTE be-
cause President Xi asked him to. The
head of China asked him to.
Don’t back off, Mr. President.
This is the right thing to do, and I
have been advocating for decades. I
asked President Bush and President
Obama to use reciprocity as a tool to
stop China. It is another tool in our
toolkit and an effective one.
If China won’t let our most produc-
tive companies compete in its markets,
we shouldn’t let China’s state-driven
companies compete in ours. They get
subsidies from the state.
We should not give Huawei—particu-
larly Huawei, which is a security con-
cern as well—free reign in the United
States. China has to learn something.
It has to open up its markets if it
wants access to ours. They talk about,
oh, we are an affront to China because
we are asking for fairness? Give me a
break. Give me a break. We know what
fairness is.
I believe the administration’s deci-
sion to put pressure on China to reform
its economic policies was very smart,
and I am really glad they did it.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
IRAN
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to
address the Chamber on an issue that
is an issue of significant challenge and
controversy now, and that is the esca-
lating tensions between the United
States and Iran. I want to make a cou-
ple of points, but let me summarize the
points as I then address the current
challenge.
First, I think it would be absolute lu-
nacy for the United States to get in-
volved in another war right now in the
Middle East. I think it would be dev-
astating if we were to be in a war with
Iran. In particular, it would be not
only devastating but also, in my view,
unconstitutional for us to be in a war
with Iran at a President’s say-so if the
President were unwilling to have Con-
gress have the debate, pursuant to our
article I war powers in this Chamber
and in the Chambers of the House of
Representatives.
If this body has a considered debate
in view of the American public and de-
termines that we need to be in a war
with Iran—or anyone, for that matter—
however I vote is irrelevant. The vote
of the body would be the vote that
would express a political consensus
about what America should do. But if
the Chamber is unwilling to have that
debate or a vote or if the President is
unwilling to come to Congress so that
the debate can be had in front of the
American public, that should tell us
something. If we are not willing to
have the vote or if the President
doesn’t want to bring it to Congress,
that should suggest that maybe it is
not a good idea.
That is the theme of what I want to
talk about today. Why are we in a time
of escalated tension between the
United States and Iran? There are a
number of reasons, but, bluntly, I be-
lieve the path to the current level of
tension began when President Trump
unilaterally walked out of a diplomatic
deal.
I think our country should always
prefer diplomacy to war. A President
backing out of a diplomatic deal that
our allies, our security officials, and
the International Atomic Energy Agen-
cy said was working, in my view, was a
horrible mistake.
There is a story I have told before in
the Chamber, and it is a story I love. It
is about one of my two favorite Presi-
dents. One of my favorite Presidents is
a Republican, Abraham Lincoln, and
my other favorite President is Harry
Truman. This is a Truman story.
After World War II, at one point,
President Truman invited the press
corps into his office, the Oval Office,
and said: I have made an interesting
decision today.
They wondered what the decision
was. President Truman showed them
that he had redesigned the seal of the
Presidency of the United States.
The seal of the President was very
similar to our Nation’s seal of an eagle
clutching the arrows of war in one claw
and the olive branch of peace in the
other claw. Prior to the Truman ad-
ministration, the eagle’s face had been
turned toward the arrows of war. In the
aftermath of World War II, when the
United States was trying to exercise
the role of not just military victor but
now of a great peacemaker by forming
the United Nations and other institu-
tions to ensure that the carnage of
World War II wouldn’t be repeated,
Harry Truman said: We should redesign
the seal of the Presidency so that the
United States is represented by an
eagle whose face is looking toward the
olive branches of peace.
We would always prefer peace. We
would always prefer diplomacy. The ar-
rows of war are still grasped in the ea-
gle’s claw. We are a nation of might,
and we will use that might if we need
it. But let no one in the world doubt
what the preference of the United
States is; that is, diplomacy and peace
if that is possible and if that is honor-
able.
You can walk around the Senate
Chamber, you can walk around the
Capitol, and you can actually see both
versions of the seal. You can still find
some in the Capitol that were created
before Harry Truman was President
where you will still see the eagle’s face
directed toward the arrows. Many of
them have been changed in subsequent
years. It is interesting trivia—like a
treasure hunt contest—for our pages
and others. You can still find the old
version.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.008 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2955
May 20, 2019
I think we can all resonate with
Harry Truman, a World War I vet and
the guy who presided over the end of
America’s victory in World War II. He
is somebody who certainly knew war
and who certainly understood the role
of American military strength in the
world, but he said this Nation should
be a nation always known as a nation
willing to pursue and committed to
pursuing diplomacy and peace first,
with war as a last resort.
I believe firmly in that as my job de-
scription in the U.S. Senate. I am a
member of the Armed Services Com-
mittee, and I am a member of the For-
eign Relations Committee—war and di-
plomacy. I am a Senator from a very
military State. I have a child in the
U.S. military. I think my job in this
body and my job as a member of those
two committees is first to reduce the
risk of unnecessary war.
A lot of wars are unnecessary. A lot
of wars are created by provocations
and miscommunications and then esca-
lations based upon a misunderstanding
of provocations and
miscommunications. Then you find
yourself in catastrophic wars that
maybe nobody really designed them to
be. That is how a lot of wars start. We
should reduce the risk of unnecessary
war. Diplomacy is how we do that.
Then, obviously, we need to be patri-
otic and strong. We need to raise the
likelihood of winning a war we need to
be in.
We do not need to be in another war
in the Middle East. We do not need to
be in a war with Iran. The relationship
between the United States and Iran
was a very positive relationship for
many, many years. It was also con-
nected to a lot of controversy.
The United States, including the
Central Intelligence Agency, backed a
coup to depose a democratically elect-
ed Prime Minister of Iran in the 1950s,
and the subsequent leader, the Shah of
Iran, was a close ally of the United
States.
In 1979, the people of Iran rose up to
depose the Shah of Iran. Not surpris-
ingly, with the United States having
supported the Shah and having sup-
ported the coup that led to the Shah,
that put the U.S.-Iran relationship in a
very different place. That tearing of
the relationship was obviously dra-
matically enhanced when the Iranian
regime, the revolutionary regime, took
U.S. Embassy personnel hostage in
1979. So from 1979, for 35 or 40 years,
the nations had no essential contact.
We provided massive support for the
nation of Iraq in the late 1980s and the
early 1990s as they engaged in a war
with Iran. That is known by the Ira-
nian people.
Yet, even with the challenges of our
government, the relationship between
the United States and the Iranian peo-
ple has maintained. Iranians study in
the United States. Over the years,
more members of the Iranian Cabinet
have had Ph.D.s from American univer-
sities than members of the American
Cabinet. It is kind of quirky. One of the
nations that we view as one of our key
adversaries in the world—it has been
very, very common for their govern-
mental leaders, including their Foreign
Minister, to have studied and gotten
degrees in the United States.
But the relationship was character-
ized on both sides by a great deal of
distrust, with a lot of legitimate rea-
son for distrust. On the U.S. side, they
say: You took our Embassy. You took
our personnel hostage.
During the Iraq war, Iranian militia
units were often providing materials
and IEDs that were being used against
American troops. Hundreds—thousands
of American troops were killed or in-
jured by materials that came from
Iran. So we have deep distrust for Iran
for very legitimate reasons.
On the Iranian side, they say: You de-
posed our Prime Minister in 1954. You
propped up a dictator over us. You sup-
ported Iraq in a war that cost us hun-
dreds of thousands of lives.
They have a deep distrust of the
United States.
How do you work through distrust?
In a personal relationship and in a rela-
tionship with a nation, you cannot
solve distrust overnight. You never
can. You have to work through it pa-
tiently and slowly.
When President Obama announced
that he was opening up a discussion
with Iran about a diplomatic deal to
limit their nuclear weapons program,
there was very little reason to suggest
that a deal might be found. Iran was
pursuing a nuclear weapons program.
The U.S. Congress, in a bipartisan
way—and I have been a supporter of
these—had sanctioned Iran for its ac-
tivities in trying to seek nuclear weap-
ons—activities that were not only dan-
gerous in the region and the world but
also would have violated a number of
key U.N. provisions affecting Iran or
generally applying to all nations.
In a powerful speech to the United
Nations in 2011—in some ways, I think
it is the best speech that has ever been
given about the Iranian challenge.
Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu of
Israel—it was a famous speech because
he drew a picture of a bomb that
looked like the Wile E. Coyote bomb in
the Road Runner cartoons. That got
the attention, but his words were real-
ly powerful. He thanked the General
Assembly of the United Nations in the
speech because the nations of the U.N.
had joined together in a sanctions re-
gime that was putting tough pressure
on Iran. The Prime Minister thanked
the General Assembly and said: Thank
you for joining in these sanctions, but
we have to be honest. The sanctions
are hurting Iran’s economy, but they
are not slowing down Iran’s nuclear
program.
To some degree, if you use pressure
of that kind, a nation or a person is
likely to say: If you are pressuring, I
have to stand up against you.
So the Iranian economy was suf-
fering, but the nuclear program was ac-
tually accelerating. Iran was building a
facility that enriched plutonium and
was dramatically enriching plutonium
at higher and higher levels that would
be the equivalent of weapons-grade
uranium. They were getting closer and
closer to having nuclear weapons.
That would have posed an existential
choice of war or accepting a nuclear
Iran. Accepting a nuclear Iran would
have also meant accepting an arms
race with other nations in the Middle
East—an arms race that we viewed as
untenable. So the Obama administra-
tion said: We will talk. We will see if
we can find a diplomatic deal. That
doesn’t mean that we approve of Iran
or that we approve of Iran’s behavior,
but we believe it is in the interest of
the region, our country, and the world
if we could limit Iran’s nuclear ambi-
tions.
From 2013 until 2015—2 years of nego-
tiation, in my view, produced a very
solid agreement, a diplomatic agree-
ment with an adversary. It didn’t turn
the adversary into an ally, just as our
negotiations with the Soviet Union in
the 1950s and 1960s over nuclear treaties
didn’t turn an adversary into an ally,
but it effectively controlled the Ira-
nian nuclear weapons program. It lim-
ited the amount of enriched uranium.
It limited the percentage of enrich-
ment to far below weapons-grade. It
shut off plutonium production in Iran.
It especially allowed intrusive inspec-
tions into Iran so we could decide
whether they were cheating—intrusive
inspections that even gave us intel so
that if they ever cheated, we would
know where nuclear assets would be if
we needed to take action to take them
out of commission.
The deal that was struck by the
Obama administration with Iran was a
deal that basically had intensive re-
quirements on both parties, the United
States and Iran, for 8 years. In kind of
a testing arrangement, every year they
would say: Did you meet your obliga-
tion? I don’t trust you for anything,
but did you meet your obligation? And
they would ask us the same question.
That is the way you work out of dis-
trust. You can’t work out of it imme-
diately; you work out of it patiently—
well, we don’t like what you are doing,
but you actually stuck with the agree-
ment in year 1. Now let’s see about
year 2.
The idea was that by the eighth year,
we could know enough to know wheth-
er the United States could back away
from the sanctions regime, and we
would know enough to know whether
Iran would permanently embrace the
intrusive inspection provisions of a nu-
clear nonproliferation treaty that the
IAEA has developed for all nations—in-
cluding an additional protocol devel-
oped after North Korea cheated—to
make the inspections really intrusive
so you could catch cheating if it hap-
pens.
That would be the first 8 years, and
then there would be a continuation of
additional requirements on Iran for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.010 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2956 May 20, 2019
years 8 to 15 and then somewhat of a
stepdown from years 15 to 25. But then,
after year 25, what would remain would
still be a permanent Iranian agreement
to follow the inspection requirements
of the IAEA, including the additional
protocol and the commitment that was
in the first sentence of the first para-
graph of the first page of the agree-
ment Iran committed to: We will never
seek to purchase, acquire, or develop
nuclear weapons, period. That was the
first sentence. That was the first para-
graph. That was the opening phrase of
the agreement Iran reaffirmed, that its
commitment would be to never seek to
purchase or acquire nuclear weapons.
When President Trump came into of-
fice in January 2017, Iran was com-
plying with the agreement. That was
the position of the International Atom-
ic Energy Agency, which has a high
record of getting these things right.
In 2002, the IAEA told us that Iraq
didn’t have nuclear weapons. We went
to war to stop their nuclear weapons
program, saying that the IAEA was
wrong. The IAEA was right, and we
blundered into an unnecessary war
then, at massive cost to the United
States in life and treasure and at mas-
sive cost to Iraq as well.
When President Trump came in, the
IAEA said that Iran was complying
with the deal. Our allies—Britain,
France, and Germany, which helped us
negotiate the deal—said that Iran was
complying with the deal.
I am on the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, and I visit with leaders of for-
eign countries. I visit with our allies in
the Middle East. While the political
leaders might say one thing, if you met
with armed services members or intel
members in Israel, Jordan, and other
nations, they would say Iran is com-
plying with the deal.
President Trump’s own Secretary of
Defense, Jim Mattis—‘‘Mad Dog’’
Mattis; he is called Mad Dog because
he was perceived to be a hawk on
Iran—testified before the Armed Serv-
ices Committee: Iran is complying with
the deal. It is in the interest of the
United States to stay in the deal.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Joe Dunford—a marine general
who was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
under President Obama and President
Trump—testified to the Armed Serv-
ices Committee: Iran is complying with
the deal. It is in the interest of the
United States to stay in the deal.
President Trump’s first Secretary of
State, Rex Tillerson, said: Iran is com-
plying with the deal. It is in our inter-
est to stay in.
Dan Coats, the current Director of
National Intelligence, said Iran is com-
plying with the deal.
Our allies, the IAEA, and President
Trump’s own national security team
said Iran is complying with the deal.
But a year ago, President Trump
said: It is going to be the United States
that will renege—not the adversary
that will back out, not a bad nation
that will turn away from a diplomatic
deal; it will be the United States that
will back away from a diplomatic deal
that has effectively limited Iran’s pro-
gram.
I am not aware of an instance in the
history of this country where it has
been the United States that made a
unilateral decision to break a diplo-
matic deal. Our allies begged us not to
do this. The national security team
recommended that the President not
do this, but the President broke the
diplomatic deal. And guess what. If you
break a diplomatic deal, you raise the
risk of unnecessary war.
I wrote a piece in the Atlantic in
July of 2018 urging the President not to
blunder us into a war. I cited this very
fact. Once you have broken the deal,
you raise the risk of war, and this
President has in breaking the deal.
Now we are at a point of escalation
with Iran. They look at the United
States’ breaking the deal. They look at
sanctions that the United States has
imposed. They are preparing for poten-
tial invasion by the United States, and,
yes, they are also pushing back. They
are engaged in activities in the region,
as they were before.
We will have a briefing tomorrow in
the SCIF. We are going to hear about
what Iran is doing. As we are getting
that briefing, we need to ask: Well,
what do they think the United States
is doing? It wasn’t Iran that broke the
deal. It was the United States. It is not
Iran that is imposing sanctions. It is
the United States.
What we need now is cooler heads
that will help us understand the Amer-
ican commitment to diplomacy. That
word still needs to be put at the fore-
front. Sadly, the advisers—the trusted
advisers, the advisers of great back-
ground and judgment who advised the
President not to back out of the deal—
have all been fired or forced to resign.
Secretary Mattis, Secretary Tillerson,
and General McMaster, the National
Security Advisor, had the same posi-
tion about the deal. Two of the key of-
ficials in the Trump administration—
the second Secretary of State, Pompeo,
and the third National Security Advi-
sor, John Bolton, individuals whom I
applaud for their public service
record—have had a long track record
of, before being in these positions, en-
couraging war with Iran and of encour-
aging regime change with Iran.
I was asked last week: Why are the
tensions with Iran now so palpable?
Why does it seem like we may be on
the brink of war?
I said: There are two reasons. The
first reason is that the President tore
up a diplomatic deal that was working,
and the second reason is that the Presi-
dent replaced sober-minded, careful na-
tional security professionals with peo-
ple who have a long track record of
publicly encouraging both regime
change in Iran and military action
against Iran. There should be no sur-
prise that we are where we are right
now.
What do we need to do? What do we
need to do as a nation, but especially
what do we need to do in this body?
As a nation, I think I know what the
perspective of Virginians is, and I
would be amazed if that perspective
were so different than that of Ameri-
cans. It would be very foolish to get
into another war right now. There have
been 18 years of war in the Middle East
since 9/11. That war has multiplied into
many different countries and against
many different organizations. As for
the idea of another war in the Middle
East right now, when the President and
his team suggested in the last 10 days
that war plans have been drawn up di-
rected by NSA Bolton—they have been
drawn up to call potentially for the de-
ployment of 125,000 American troops
into the region—I know how that made
Virginians feel. Virginia families who
have had their loved ones deployed not
once or twice but sometimes four or
five or six times, when they hear the
President’s team talking about such a
potential deployment, it is enormously
frightening to them—enormously
frightening to them. When Virginians
who have kids or spouses in the mili-
tary hear Members of Congress sug-
gesting that a war against Iran would
be easy, it is enormously frightening to
them—enormously frightening to
them.
So what do I hope will happen? I hope
that knowing what the Nation would
think about it, I hope that what will
happen is that Congress will do what
we are supposed to do as the article I
branch. The Framers of the Constitu-
tion were so clear about this. The Con-
stitution is filled with clear provisions:
The President has to be 35 years old.
And it has vague provisions: You can’t
have unreasonable searches and sei-
zures. What does ‘‘unreasonable’’
mean?
But on the spectrum of clear to am-
biguous provisions, the war making
powers are pretty clear. It is Congress
that declares war, not the President. It
is Congress. A President can defend the
Nation against imminent attack with-
out asking Congress for permission.
That is clear in the Constitution, but
as for the initiation of war, it is not for
a President to say it and start it. It is
not for a President to, by a series of
provocations, blunder us down the path
where war becomes inevitable.
It is for Congress, having a debate in
this Chamber and the House—a debate
that can be witnessed by the American
public, a debate that will educate the
American public about what the stakes
are, a debate that has to be finished
with a vote where every Member of
Congress has to go on the board with
the courage of their convictions and
the backbone to vote yes or no. That is
what is supposed to precede going to
war.
I hope, in this time of escalation,
that what we might do as a Congress is,
a, recommit to the virtues of diplo-
macy and vow again not to be the
party that blows up diplomatic deals
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.011 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2957
May 20, 2019
and walks away when other nations are
at the table wanting to pursue peaceful
diplomacy. And, second, if we are to be
in a war, I would hope that this body
would jealously guard that prerogative
and want to have that debate here on
the floor.
There are members of this body that
feel very differently about what I have
just stated and the points that I have
made, and we ought to have that de-
bate here on the floor, not in dueling
press conferences or dueling appear-
ances on cable shows. We should be
having that debate here on the floor.
So, as I conclude, I pray that the es-
calation of tensions that we have seen,
the discussions of deploying 120,000
troops in the Middle East, may be abat-
ing a bit. I pray that we will ask tough
questions. We have our briefing tomor-
row at the all-Senate briefing on this
important matter.
I hope that as we enter into a discus-
sion, in the Armed Services Committee
first and then on the floor of the body,
about the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act, that this would be a perfect
opportunity for us to kind of talk
about the equities, the plusses and
minuses, what is at stake, and what we
might do.
I will also just say, as a last point,
that we now know how to have that de-
bate on the floor. If the President
wants to start a war without us—and,
make no mistake, none of the existing
authorizations from 2001 or 2002 would
authorize military action against Iran.
Not a single person here voting to go to
war against the perpetrators of the 9/11
attack intended that to be used as an
authorization to wage war against the
nation of Iran. If the President decides
to go to war against Iran without us,
we now have a vehicle—a war powers
resolution vehicle that we just recently
used in connection with U.S. support
for the Saudi ‘‘misprosecution’’ of the
civil war in Yemen. We now have an
opportunity to force a vote. If the
President gets us into hostilities that
are not authorized by Congress, we
have the opportunity—and, I would
say, the obligation—to file a resolution
that must be brought to the floor of
this body, that must be debated on, and
it must be voted on. We should not be
at war with Iran unless this body is
willing to vote on it.
If the President decides that he
wants to go to war with Iran and not
come to Congress, what does it say
about his judgment? His judgment is
that he doesn’t think Congress will
support it. If he doesn’t think Congress
will support it, maybe it is because it
is not a good idea.
So, as I conclude, I think these are
very, very challenging times. There is
not a power we should guard more jeal-
ously than the power to put the men
and women of our armed services into
harm’s way. We should not let a Presi-
dent—Democrat or Republican—make
that decision without us. We should
not let a President—Democrat or Re-
publican—use a series of provocations
to blunder us into it. We should not
casually let a President—Democrat or
Republican—tear up diplomatic deals
and have the United States be the
party that is walking away from a
table of dialogue where we might find a
peaceful and diplomatic resolution to
controversies.
In the days ahead, in the NDAA proc-
ess, and then, God forbid, if the Presi-
dent were to initiate us into some kind
of a military action, through a war
powers resolution of the kind that we
just voted on here on the Senate floor,
we will have an opportunity as a body
to deal with this, and I pray that we
will deal with it with the seriousness
that it deserves. There is nothing,
nothing more serious than this.
Maybe just the last thing I will say is
this. You know my background. I start-
ed in city council, and I cast thousands
of votes, just as you have, as a city
councilman and mayor, as Lieutenant
Governor and Governor, and now as a
Member of this body. I have cast all
kinds of votes. A vote on war is the
most significant vote you will ever
cast. I cast two votes on the war reso-
lutions in the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, and it was interesting casting
votes on those, even though they ended
up not leading to votes on the floor.
There is just a feeling about the grav-
ity of that vote and the feeling in my
stomach as I was trying to decide how
to vote. Even when I decided how to
vote and making my mouth say the
word about how I wanted to vote, it
was a vote unlike anything for those
two, unlike any other vote that I have
ever cast.
Part of that, no doubt, is the connec-
tion that Virginians feel so closely to
the military. Part of it, no doubt, is
having a child in the military and
knowing what a vote like that might
mean to marines like my oldest son.
This is a topic that has to be the
most serious thing we do, and we can’t
outsource our moral responsibility
about it to a President. In fact, we
need to jealously guard that responsi-
bility, and I hope we will.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on nomina-
tion of Daniel P. Collins, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, David
Perdue, Chuck Grassley, James E.
Risch, Johnny Isakson, John Barrasso,
Steve Daines, Roger F. Wicker, Jerry
Moran, John Cornyn, John Thune,
Richard Burr, Mike Crapo, Pat Rob-
erts, Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore
Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Daniel P. Collins, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) and the
Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALD-
WIN), the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 117 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.013 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2958 May 20, 2019
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Baldwin
Booker
Gillibrand
Inhofe
Johnson
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 43.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Daniel P. Col-
lins, of California, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
TRIBUTE TO SISTER JANE GERETY
Mr. REED. Madam President, I am
pleased to join my colleague Senator
WHITEHOUSE in celebrating the tenure
of Sister Jane Gerety as president of
Salve Regina University. Sister Jane
has served the Salve Regina University
community since 1995. First, she was a
member of the board of trustees, and,
starting in 2009, she became its seventh
president. She has been an extraor-
dinary leader, educator, and friend. We
will miss her dearly in Rhode Island as
she retires and embarks upon her next
venture.
Salve Regina University is a special
institution. Founded by the Sisters of
Mercy, its original charter authorized
establishing a college to ‘‘promote vir-
tue, and piety and learning.’’ In 1947,
after the acquisition of Ochre Hall,
Salve Regina College enrolled its first
class of 58 students. In doing so, it
opened the gates of some of the man-
sions of America’s gilded age to serve a
new and better purpose of expanding
educational opportunities in the pur-
suit of wisdom and universal justice.
It comes as no surprise that Senator
Pell made Salve Regina University his
home away from home upon his retire-
ment from the Senate. Senator Pell
was committed to a just and harmo-
nious world. He was a man, born of
privilege, who dedicated his career in
public service to expanding educational
and cultural opportunities that had
previously been reserved for the elite
to all Americans.
Senator WHITEHOUSE and I share a
keen sense of responsibility to protect
and build on Senator Pell’s legacy. In
Sister Jane, we had a true partner in
that effort, and we are grateful for her
service.
Sister Jane embodies the founding
principles of Salve Regina College, now
Salve Regina University. On campus,
she is known as the students’ presi-
dent, perhaps the highest praise for a
university leader.
She has been a real presence in stu-
dent life on campus. From the athletic
fields to the dining halls to her office,
where the doors were always open, stu-
dents knew that she had their back.
She was their president.
It was only fitting that the univer-
sity has dedicated Wakehurst Hall, the
hub of student activities and home to
the office of community service, the
student government association, and
the campus activities board, in her
honor. It is now called Gerety Hall, a
name that in Sister Jane’s reflection
on her family speaks to love, fidelity,
and perseverance.
Under Sister Jane’s presidency, Salve
Regina University has grown, thrived,
and helped address vital needs in the
community. Sister Jane oversaw the
expansion of academic programs, in-
cluding a new doctorate program in
nursing, a master of fine arts degree
program in creative writing, additional
experiential learning opportunities in
business, ground-breaking research
programs in the sciences, and a new
campus in Warwick, Rhode Island to
serve the academic needs of working
adults in graduate and continuing edu-
cation programs.
She improved the campus infrastruc-
ture, spearheading the renovation of
the O’Hare academic building, creating
spaces for collaborative learning, and
renovating laboratories for programs
in science and nursing. Sister Jane also
worked to ensure that the university
addressed emerging areas of need,
opening a digital forensics lab and in-
corporating cyber education across the
undergraduate curriculum.
Even more significantly, Sister Jane
worked to ensure that students from
all walks of life could afford a Salve
Regina education. She led the cam-
paign ‘‘Scholars and Scholarships’’ to
reach 100 gifted, endowed funds valued
at over $15 million to support students,
faculty, and research. Over the last 10
years, Salve Regina’s annual Gov-
ernor’s Ball for Scholarships nearly
doubled in support, raising more than
$500,000 in 2019 alone as the university’s
signature event.
Sister Jane’s accomplishments at
Salve Regina University are but some
of her many professional and academic
achievements. She earned bachelor’s
and master’s degrees in French and a
doctorate in English. She is a William
Butler Yeats scholar. She has been a
teacher at many levels—junior high,
high school, and college and an aca-
demic dean.
She had a notable career in the
healthcare sector, serving as a senior
administrator for St. Joseph’s Health
System in Atlanta before coming to
Salve Regina University. In each of
these roles, Sister Jane answered her
vocation to live a life of mercy. In her
words and in her deeds, she promotes
universal justice and works for a world
that is harmonious, just, and merciful.
We are all better off for knowing Sister
Jane.
I will miss her advice and counsel
and wish her well in her next endeav-
ors. As she told the students when she
announced her retirement, ‘‘Looking
forward, we all share a bit of fear for
the unknown and also hope for the ex-
citement that is to come.’’
May we all follow her example and
work to make what is to come harmo-
nious, just, and merciful.
I yield to my colleague, Senator
WHITEHOUSE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, it is an honor and a true pleasure
to join Rhode Island’s senior Senator
here on the floor today to honor the
work of Salve Regina University’s sev-
enth president, Sister Jane Gerety.
Like Senator REED, I have enjoyed Sis-
ter Jane’s friendship, companionship,
wise counsel, encouragement, and occa-
sional course-correction suggestions
over many years.
She will retire next month, capping a
decade of service to her university, to
the Newport community, and to Rhode
Island. Sister Jane has accomplished
remarkable things in her tenure. She
established a new satellite campus in
Warwick to help working Rhode Island-
ers take graduate and continuing edu-
cation courses. She helped establish
online study options, bringing the uni-
versity’s many offerings directly to
Rhode Island students in their homes.
She launched new programs of study,
including a master of fine arts and cre-
ative writing, experiential learning op-
portunities in a range of fields, and a
doctoral program in nursing. She
raised millions of dollars in funding to
strengthen Salve’s endowments, sup-
porting every facet of university life.
She supervised numerous improve-
ments to Salve Regina’s beautiful New-
port campus, including a $46 million
renovation of the O’Hare Academic
Building.
Sister Jane’s work has contributed
much to the city of Newport and the
State of Rhode Island. Newport is home
to an array of legendary Gilded Age
mansions and other culturally signifi-
cant buildings set atop cliffs over-
looking the shining Atlantic Ocean.
Many of these architectural master-
pieces now belong to her university and
have needed significant upkeep. From
the outset, Sister Jane recognized the
value of Salve’s stewardship of the ar-
chitectural heritage of Newport, RI.
The beautifully maintained campus,
replete with the newly dedicated
Gerety Hall, named in honor of Sister
Jane, is a gem of an asset for the city
and for the State.
Sister Jane’s work has extended be-
yond our State’s border. Under her
management, Salve strengthened its
Pell Center for International Relations
and Public Policy. Today more than
ever, the Pell Center is a fitting reflec-
tion of its namesake, Senator Clai-
borne Pell, for whom our democratic
ideals held limitless power. The cen-
ter’s academic programs, publications,
and forums spread important ideas
around the globe, advancing American
domestic and foreign policy, cyber se-
curity, and diversity in leadership.
As impressive and praiseworthy as
those professional accomplishments is
the immediate personal and lasting dif-
ference Sister Jane has made in the in-
dividual lives of so many around her,
including Senator REED and myself. A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.019 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2959
May 20, 2019
member of the 2019 Salve class says he
will remember Sister Jane en route to
‘‘bring candy and snacks to student
athletes for conference games’’ and her
willingness to meet with any student
in her office. Indeed, when visiting
Newport, young alums in search of
graduate school advice or a word of en-
couragement have known that they are
welcome to stop by Sister Jane’s office
to find an open door, a warm heart, and
wise counsel.
Over the course of her career, Sister
Jane embodied the values of her Catho-
lic order, the Sisters of Mercy. The Sis-
ters were founded with a mission to
spread the gift of education and care
for those in need in their community.
Last year, Sister Jane told Newport
Daily News she sees the institution she
led as ‘‘imbued with mercy,’’ adding, ‘‘I
hope I’ve helped to cultivate that spir-
it.’’
I should note that with regard to the
legacy of the Sisters of Mercy, in her
service, Sister Jane also honored an ex-
traordinary tradition of extraordinary
female leadership.
As I am giving these remarks, I am
so glad that the Presiding Officer in
the U.S. Senate is a woman Senator.
Sister Therese, who was Sister Jane’s
predecessor, was a skilled and beloved
leader of Salve Regina, and Sister Lu-
cille—before Sister Therese and before
Sister Jane—was another powerful and
effective leader. This impressive tradi-
tion of leadership by women is worth
celebrating on its own as we celebrate
the achievements of Sister Jane, and
Sister Jane has shown herself well wor-
thy and advanced that tradition.
Sister Jane, it is clear to all who
know you—and that is pretty much all
who love you—that the spirit of mercy
has flourished at Salve Regina and has
been enhanced in our State under your
leadership. We wish you well in your
next chapters.
I join my senior Senator in these sen-
timents.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Madam President, at some point dur-
ing the course of these remarks, I ex-
pect the majority leader to come to the
floor to put the Senate through its
closing paces. When that happens, I ask
unanimous consent that the part of my
remarks prior to his statement be
moved to join with the remainder of
my remarks in the RECORD so that they
are combined.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, at 2:15 tomorrow,
all postcloture time on the Collins
nomination be considered expired; fur-
ther, that if confirmed, the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL MILITARY
APPRECIATION MONTH
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, the
month of May is nationally designated
Military Appreciation Month, so
named because, in the month of May,
we also observe Memorial Day, Mili-
tary Spouse Appreciation Day, and
Armed Forces Day. Last week, my
friend from the State of Oklahoma, Mr.
INHOFE, the distinguished chairman of
the Senate Armed Services Committee,
organized a floor event around Na-
tional Military Appreciation Month. I
would like to take a moment to lend
my voice to this significant commemo-
ration.
In the State of Alaska we like to
think of military appreciation month
as every month, military appreciation
day as every day. Alaska is proud to
host more than 19,000 Active-Duty
servicemembers, more than 4,600 mem-
bers of the Reserve Component, and
about 5,000 appropriated funds civilians
across all of the services. That number
will grow significantly as the Air Force
begins the beddown of the F–35A Joint
Strike Fighter, at Eielson Air Force
Base, its first F–35 operating base in
the Pacific Area of Responsibility.
At first blush, Alaska is a difficult
place to serve. It is dark in the winter,
light all night in the summer, prone to
temperature extremes, and geographi-
cally distant from family. Some mili-
tary families who receive orders to
Alaska are apprehensive at first, but
when they speak with other military
families that have served in Alaska,
they come to understand that Alaskans
treat our military families like no
other people, and the opportunity to
live in Alaska, while serving, is a once
in a lifetime wonderful experience.
I could offer many examples of the
ways in which Alaskans make life won-
derful for those who serve here. The
one that is freshest is my mind is the
annual Military Appreciation Banquet
in Fairbanks. It is one of two that
Alaskans put on each year. The Fair-
banks banquet tends to occur in May;
the other major banquet is Salute to
the Military in Anchorage each Feb-
ruary. Both attract senior military
leaders as keynote speakers. During
each, the services honor outstanding
members from within their ranks and
thank the community for its extraor-
dinary support.
I would like to speak to the history
of the Fairbanks banquet for a mo-
ment. It began 51 years ago—1968 to be
exact—when Jim and Rosemary Messer
started small dinner in the home par-
ties for friends in the military; 1968 was
a pretty controversial year in the Na-
tion’s history with the country torn
over our participation in the Vietnam
conflict, but the Messers were deter-
mined to show those who came from
around the country to serve in Alaska
some love and home-cooking.
The idea quickly outgrew the con-
fines of the Messer home, and the Fair-
banks Military Appreciation Banquet
is its successor. The banquet is held in
the Carlson Center, which is the con-
vention center for Fairbanks. Capacity
is about 600 people, and the banquet
sells out every year. Following in the
Messer legacy, each community mem-
ber buys two tickets, one for them-
selves and another for a servicemember
to host at their table.
In addition to recognizing exemplary
servicemembers, the Fairbanks com-
munity recognizes one local individual
each year who has done the most to
promote civilian-military relations
with an award. That award is named
the Messer Award, in honor of the cou-
ple that inspired the annual banquet.
This year, the keynote speaker was
VADM Michael J. Dumont, U.S. Navy,
Deputy Commander of U.S. Northern
Command. I am told he was a big hit.
Last year, for the 50th anniversary, we
had Gen. Joseph Lengyel, U.S. Air
Force, Chief of the National Guard Bu-
reau. We are grateful that our senior
leaders travel a great distance to cele-
brate the military presence in Alaska’s
Interior, and I know that the partici-
pants are as well.
This is an example of what we view
as the golden contract between the
community and the military. Each
year, Alaskans go out of their way in
big ways and small ones to make life
for our servicemembers and their fami-
lies extremely comfortable. Each year,
in the presence of a distinguished sen-
ior leader, we break bread together to
renew these bonds.
I am proud of those who serve in
Alaska and the Alaskans who serve
them, and I am proud that we observe
military appreciation month every
month of the year.
f
TRIBUTE TO CHRISTOPHER E.
O’CONNOR
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today I
am proud to recognize in the RECORD
the U.S. Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, VA, Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary for the Office of Congres-
sional and Legislative Affairs, OCLA,
Christopher E. O’Connor, in honor of
his upcoming retirement. Mr. O’Connor
recently received the VA’s Exceptional
Service Award for his long record of
service to our Nation’s veterans.
Mr. O’Connor has advised four VA
Secretaries, four acting VA Secre-
taries, and their legislative teams as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:46 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.018 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2960 May 20, 2019
they have worked with Congress to
make a stronger and more effective de-
partment for America’s veterans. He
has provided continuity in the Depart-
ment’s communication with Congress
during the shift of executive adminis-
trations.
Most recently, Mr. O’Connor worked
with our committee on the VA MIS-
SION Act, which is a major reform in
veterans’ healthcare. He also helped in-
form Members of Congress about the
need to modernize the department’s an-
tiquated electronic health records sys-
tem, and he played a key role as the
Veterans Appeals Improvement and
Modernization Act made its way
through Congress.
Under his leadership, Mr. O’Connor
and his team prepared VA’s senior
leaders to successfully participate in
more than 400 congressional hearings.
Their office also coordinated thousands
of informational briefings to Members
of Congress, committee staff, and per-
sonal staff that advanced VA’s message
and priorities.
Upon his upcoming retirement, Mr.
O’Connor leaves the Department with
an important legacy. In 2017, Mr.
O’Connor spearheaded the Congres-
sional Fellowship Program, which
places VA employees in a yearlong fel-
lowship position in the office of a Mem-
ber of Congress.
Today, I am honored to pay tribute
to Mr. O’Connor for his service to our
country and his steadfast commitment
to advocating on behalf of veterans
throughout his career. Congratulations
to Mr. O’Connor on his lasting legacy
of advocacy for veterans, and I wish
him the best in his retirement.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DAVID BRANSCUM
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to congratulate David Branscum
for being named Arkansas Rural Advo-
cate of the Year by the Arkansas Rural
Development Commission.
Raised in Marshall, David is a third-
generation cattle rancher, farmer, and
small business owner who has dedi-
cated more than four decades of his life
to rural Arkansas. After graduating
from the University of Arkansas with a
degree in agriculture and economics,
he returned home to run the family
farm and lumber business. For 7 years,
David represented House District 83 as
a member of the Arkansas House of
Representatives where he served on
both the agriculture and health com-
mittees and chaired the legislative
council. In 2017, he resigned from the
House after Agriculture Secretary
Sonny Perdue appointed him as Arkan-
sas director for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Office of Rural Develop-
ment.
In this role, David has implemented
programs across the State intended to
improve the quality of life in Arkansas’
rural communities. These programs in-
clude rural business development
grants, single and multifamily housing
loans, community facility grants, and
water and waste disposal monies.
One of David’s top priorities and one
of the largest challenges facing Arkan-
sas and much of rural America is ac-
cess to reliable and affordable
broadband connectivity. With nearly $1
billion in grant money available na-
tionwide to expand broadband services
to rural communities, he has cham-
pioned this program around our State.
I congratulate David for being named
the Arkansas Rural Advocate of the
Year. He has spent his career working
to advance the economy and improve
the standard of living for rural resi-
dents throughout Arkansas, and our
State is a better place because of him.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CADET COLONEL
SHELBY PETERSON
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I
have the honor of recognizing Civil Air
Patrol Cadet Colonel Shelby Petersen
of Kalispell. Cadet Colonel Petersen is
the first Montanan since 2004 to receive
the General Carl A. Spaatz Award,
which is the Civil Air Patrol’s highest
cadet honor.
The Spaatz Award is given to cadets
who have demonstrated excellence in
leadership, character, fitness, and aero-
space education. The selection process
is extremely rigorous, and only 5 out of
every 1,000 cadets earns the award.
Cadet Colonel Petersen joined the Civil
Air Patrol at the age of 12, following in
the footsteps of her older brother.
From day 1, her goal was to become
squadron commander and win the
Spaatz Award. She has thrived as a
member of the Flathead Composite
Squadron, receiving 18 promotions and
achieving her goal of becoming the
squadron commander. I had the pleas-
ure of meeting Cadet Colonel Petersen
in March 2018, when she was selected to
participate in the prestigious Civil Air
Patrol Leadership Academy. There, ca-
dets spend a week in Washington, DC,
and gain greater insight into the inner
workings of government through meet-
ings with Members of Congress, the
State Department, and the intelligence
community. She is an outstanding
young Montanan who understands
what it means to put service before
self.
As squadron commander, she has
taken a keen interest in mentoring
younger cadets and pushes them to set
and meet high expectations for them-
selves. In fact, her final assignment as
a Civil Air Patrol cadet is cadet com-
mander for this summer’s Civil Air Pa-
trol boot camp.
Cadet Colonel Petersen is currently
finishing her senior year at Glacier
High School in Kalispell and upon
graduation will enlist in the Marine
Corps to continue her service to our
country. I congratulate Cadet Colonel
Petersen on winning the Spaatz Award,
and I thank her for her service. I know
that she will continue to make her
community and Montana proud.∑
TRIBUTE TO TOM LEWIS
∑ Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, today,
I am honored to recognize in the
RECORD Mr. Tom Lewis of Atlanta, GA,
the senior adviser to the president of
Georgia State University. Tom has an-
nounced he will retire in June after 28
years of service to the school.
Tom Lewis has built a strong legacy
in our State and Federal Government,
as well as in higher education. Early
on, he learned the value of public serv-
ice from his parents, Eleanor and
Carlton Lewis. While he was a student
at Georgia Southern University, he
spent time here in the Senate as an in-
tern for the venerable Senator Richard
B. Russell of Georgia. Upon his gradua-
tion from the university, he worked on
the campaign of then-Presidential can-
didate Jimmy Carter of Plains, GA,
who was subsequently elected to the of-
fice of U.S. President.
Next, Tom set out to make a dif-
ference in our State government as ex-
ecutive director of the Georgia Fran-
chise Practices Commission from 1974
to 1978. Later, while he was executive
vice president of the Bartow County
Chamber of Commerce, Tom met and
befriended State legislator Joe Frank
Harris of Cartersville, GA, and his wife
Elizabeth. That friendship turned into
a trusted bond, and when Joe Frank
Harris set out to become Governor of
Georgia, Tom joined his campaign as
an adviser and served in several roles
in Harris’s administration, including as
chief of staff from 1986 to 1991.
I got to know Tom while I was also
serving in the Georgia General Assem-
bly, and he was always someone who
you could count on and trust. When he
went on to Georgia State University,
he left his mark there, advancing the
school’s interests, creating new oppor-
tunities, and helping Georgia State
University grow in the early years and
then absolutely take off. The Wash-
ington Post has called Georgia State
University a ‘‘hotbed of growth and in-
novation.’’ This and many of its other
well-earned accolades are due not only
to a serious and active student body,
but also thanks to the long-term plan-
ning and constant efforts of great lead-
ers like Tom Lewis.
In addition to his accomplishments
spanning decades and touching count-
less lives, Tom and his wife Patty are
the parents of three children, Wes,
Ellen, and Shannon. His five grand-
children, Wesley Claire, Leighton, Will,
Nate, and Jacks will surely benefit
from Tom’s retirement. I have a strong
suspicion that his home community of
Cartersville, GA, will benefit from the
additional time he is able to spend in
town, too.
As Tom and Patty prepare for this
new chapter, I wish them and their
families all the best. I offer my deepest
gratitude for their friendship and work
on behalf of our State.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:46 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.021 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2961
May 20, 2019
RECOGNIZING GT AIRINJECT, INC.
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship, it is
my privilege to recognize a small busi-
ness that has benefited from hard
work, ingenuity, and international
trade. As we celebrate World Trade
Month, it is important to recognize the
limitless potential that exporting of-
fers small businesses across the coun-
try. It is my distinct honor to name GT
AirInject Inc., located in Jacksonville,
FL, as the Senate Small Business of
the Week.
Founded by Glen Black, GT AirInject
is a family-owned manufacturer of air
injection machines, which provide an
efficient way to improve soil and lawn
maintenance for golf courses and ath-
letic fields. GT AirInject’s flagship
product, the AIR2G2, solves the issues
of soil compaction by injecting pres-
surized air into the soil, up to 12 inches
deep, which fractures the natural form-
ing compact layers. Unlike traditional
aeration methods that simply perforate
the soil, the AIR2G2 injects air without
damaging the turf surface. This revolu-
tionary feature allows the course or
field to be used immediately, making
the AIR2G2 an ideal product for sport
facilities and golf courses. In fact, GT
AirInject’s products are utilized inter-
nationally, at world-renowned facili-
ties such as St. Andrews Links in Scot-
land, the Boston Red Sox’s Fenway
Park, the Green Bay Packer’s Lambeau
Field, and Real Madrid’s Santiago
Bernabeu Stadium.
In addition to the AIR2G2, GT
AirInject has developed the AIR2HP.
Perfect for both commercial and house-
hold use, the AIR2HP offers customers
a more portable and dynamic product,
while still providing the soil benefits of
increased porosity, better water drain-
age, and improved root growth. The
benefits of the AIR2G2 and the
AIR2HP, however, are not limited to
improved soil quality. The efficient
and effective designs of GT AirInject
products allow recreational facilities
to remain open after turf maintenance,
simultaneously decreasing the facili-
ties maintenance budget while increas-
ing revenue.
GT AirInject’s commitment to manu-
facturing superior products, while
maintaining an affordable price, has al-
lowed them to become a world leader in
air injection machines. Exporting
across the globe, GT AirInject products
can be found throughout Europe, Asia,
and Africa. Despite increased inter-
national demand, GT AirInject con-
tinues to manufacture its machines in
Jacksonville.
GT AirInject’s commitment to qual-
ity and innovation has not gone unno-
ticed. The AIR2G2 won the prestigious
2016 HSBC Golf Business Forum Inno-
vation Award and the 2015 Sports Turf
Managers Association’s Innovation
Award. Additionally, the AIR2HP was
named as one of Lawn and Landscape
magazine’s Twenty for 2017 New Prod-
uct Award Program winners.
American made products are essen-
tial to the United States’ continued
competitiveness in the global market-
place. GT AirInject is a tremendous ex-
ample of a small business creating an
innovative product that has generated
global demand. They have grown inter-
nationally while continuing to create
American jobs. It is with great pleas-
ure that I name GT AirInject as the
Senate Small Business of the Week. I
wish Glen and the entire team nothing
but success in their future endeavors.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE MONTESSORI
SCHOOL OF GREENVILLE
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, it is my privilege to recog-
nize and commend the Montessori
School of Greenville for nearly 50 years
of community service and teaching. At
the end of this month, former teachers,
directors, local educators, alumni, and
students will gather to honor this long-
standing educational leader in the Up-
state as they close their doors.
The Greenville Montessori School
has been a true model of education,
since its humble beginnings from a
church basement in 1970. At that time,
it was the first Montessori school in
the State of South Carolina. Since
then, it has maintained the authentic
principles and practices of the Montes-
sori curriculum and developed a skilled
staff and educational materials that
provided training to countless teach-
ers, helped establish other Montessori
schools, and influenced alternative
education models in the region and
State.
This school developed a passion for
learning, a sense of accountability, and
a value for independent work in thou-
sands of children in the Upstate. Many
of these children grew up and sent
their own children to this school, and
it became a place for families and life-
long friends.
Today I celebrate the parents and
educators who pushed and continue to
push for improved educational offer-
ings and programs like this one. Their
work is informing and guiding the evo-
lution of the school system and its of-
ferings to provide safe environments
and rigorous curriculums that will en-
sure our State’s children can effec-
tively compete in the local and global
workforce and productively contribute
to our society.
I would like to recognize and honor
the Montessori School of Greenville
and every type of K–12 school—public,
private, charter school, homeschool,
and online—that helps prepare our next
generation for college, the workforce,
and the amazing opportunities that lie
ahead.
I pass along my sincerest gratitude
to the many directors, educators, and
local leaders involved with Greenville
Montessori School in the past 50 years
for contributing to and perpetuating
the most important and precious op-
portunity we can offer our children: an
education.∑
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
13303 OF MAY 22, 2003, WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE STABILIZATION
OF IRAQ—PM 18
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
stabilization of Iraq that was declared
in Executive Order 13303 of May 22,
2003, is to continue in effect beyond
May 22, 2019.
Obstacles to the orderly reconstruc-
tion of Iraq, the restoration and main-
tenance of peace and security in the
country, and the development of polit-
ical, administrative, and economic in-
stitutions in Iraq continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. Therefore, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13303 with re-
spect to the stabilization of Iraq.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 20, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on May 17, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
H.R. 2379. An act to reauthorize the Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.024 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2962 May 20, 2019
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, without amendment:
S. 1436. An act to make technical correc-
tions to the computation of average pay
under Public Law 110–279.
The message further announced that
the House has passed the following
bills, in which it requests the concur-
rence of the Senate:
H.R. 5. An act to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sex-
ual orientation, and for other purposes.
H.R. 987. An act to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to provide
for Federal Exchange outreach and edu-
cational activities.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 276h, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Mexico-United
States Interparliamentary Group: Mr.
CORREA of California, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas, Ms.
ESCOBAR of Texas, Ms. LOFGREN of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. CARBAJAL of California.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
May 20, 2019, he has signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bill, which was pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
H.R. 2379. An act to reauthorize the Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 5. An act to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sex-
ual orientation, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 987. An act to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to provide
for Federal Exchange outreach and edu-
cational activities; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 312. An act to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2578. An act to reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communication was
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and was referred as indicated:
EC–1318. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Refusal
Procedures for Visas’’ (RIN1400–AE64) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 2, 2019; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. KAINE):
S. 1541. A bill to increase the minimum age
for sale of tobacco products to 21; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 1542. A bill to amend title 37, United
States Code, to standardize payment of haz-
ardous duty incentive pay for members per-
forming parachute jumping as an essential
part of military duty, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
KING):
S. 1543. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code 1986 to provide that floor plan fi-
nancing includes the financing of certain
trailers and campers; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. DAINES, and Mr. TESTER):
S. 1544. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for payment
for services of radiologist assistants under
the Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 1545. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs permits the display of Battle-
field Crosses in national cemeteries, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 1546. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a grant program
for projects to strengthen and protect vul-
nerable infrastructure used during mass
evacuations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
HAWLEY, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 1547. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, relating to sentencing of armed
career criminals; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 1548. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the rate of tax
on corporations participating in labor
lockouts and to prohibit deductions and
credits for wages and benefits paid to tem-
porary workers during labor knockouts; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 1549. A bill to amend the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993 to ensure that em-
ployees on leave under the Act maintain
health coverage during an employer lockout;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 1550. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the work oppor-
tunity credit for certain youth employees,
and to extend empowerment zones; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 1551. A bill to amend the Workforce In-
novation and Opportunity Act to provide
funding, on a competitive basis, for summer
and year-round employment opportunities
for youth ages 14 through 24; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WYDEN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 1552. A bill to decriminalize marijuana,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 63
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 63, a bill to implement the rec-
ommendations of the Joint Select
Committee on Budget and Appropria-
tions Process Reform.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 91, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize per diem pay-
ments under comprehensive service
programs for homeless veterans to fur-
nish care to dependents of homeless
veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 106
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 106, a bill to
reauthorize and extend funding for
community health centers and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. ENZI) and the Senator from
Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 151, a bill to deter
criminal robocall violations and im-
prove enforcement of section 227(b) of
the Communications Act of 1934, and
for other purposes.
S. 237
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 237, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
permit nurse practitioners and physi-
cian assistants to satisfy the docu-
mentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of cer-
tain shoes for individuals with diabe-
tes.
S. 249
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 249, a bill to direct the
Secretary of State to develop a strat-
egy to regain observer status for Tai-
wan in the World Health Organization,
and for other purposes.
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.011 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2963
May 20, 2019
cosponsors of S. 261, a bill to extend
the authorization of appropriations for
allocation to carry out approved wet-
lands conservation projects under the
North American Wetlands Conserva-
tion Act through fiscal year 2024, and
for other purposes.
S. 287
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 287, a bill to amend the Trade Ex-
pansion Act of 1962 to impose limita-
tions on the authority of the President
to adjust imports that are determined
to threaten to impair national secu-
rity, and for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, supra.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH), the Senator from North Dakota
(Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) and the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 362, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
form taxation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 436
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 436, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to require the de-
velopment of public transportation op-
erations safety risk reduction pro-
grams, and for other purposes.
S. 475
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 475, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to prevent
catastrophic out-of-pocket spending on
prescription drugs for seniors and indi-
viduals with disabilities.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 636, a bill to designate
Venezuela under section 244 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligi-
ble for temporary protected status
under such section.
S. 711
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 711, a bill to amend
title 38, United States Code, to expand
eligibility for mental health services
from the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to include members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces, and
for other purposes.
S. 734
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 734, a bill to lever-
age Federal Government procurement
power to encourage increased cyberse-
curity for Internet of Things devices,
and for other purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 785, a bill to improve mental health
care provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses.
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 785, supra.
S. 816
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 816, a bill to amend the Natural
Gas Act to expedite approval of exports
of small volumes of natural gas, and
for other purposes.
S. 827
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 827, a bill to designate certain Na-
tional Forest System land and certain
public land under the jurisdiction of
the Secretary of the Interior in the
States of Idaho, Montana, Oregon,
Washington, and Wyoming as wilder-
ness, wild and scenic rivers, wildland
recovery areas, and biological con-
necting corridors, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) and the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 846, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 857
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 857, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to increase the
amount of special pension for Medal of
Honor recipients, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 867, a bill to protect stu-
dents of institutions of higher edu-
cation and the taxpayer investment in
institutions of higher education by im-
proving oversight and accountability of
institutions of higher education, par-
ticularly for-profit colleges, improving
protections for students and borrowers,
and ensuring the integrity of postsec-
ondary education programs, and for
other purposes.
S. 890
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 890, a bill to
authorize the Sergeant at Arms to pro-
tect the personal technology devices
and accounts of Senators and covered
employees from cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities,
and for other purposes.
S. 1004
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1004, a bill to increase the
number of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection Office of Field Operations
officers and support staff and to re-
quire reports that identify staffing, in-
frastructure, and equipment needed to
enhance security at ports of entry.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1039, a bill to
limit the use of funds for kinetic mili-
tary operations in or against Iran.
S. 1060
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY), the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) and the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1060, a bill to
deter foreign interference in United
States elections, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1123
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1123, a bill to transfer and
limit Executive Branch authority to
suspend or restrict the entry of a class
of aliens.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1168, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to ensure campus
access at public institutions of higher
education for religious groups.
S. 1186
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1186, a bill to promote de-
mocracy and human rights in Burma,
and for other purposes.
S. 1191
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1191, a bill to reauthorize sec-
tion 340H of the Public Health Service
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.006 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2964 May 20, 2019
Act to continue to encourage the ex-
pansion, maintenance, and establish-
ment of approved graduate medical
residency programs at qualified teach-
ing health centers, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1200
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1200, a bill to create protections
for depository institutions that provide
financial services to cannabis-related
legitimate businesses and service pro-
viders for such businesses, and for
other purposes.
S. 1223
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1223, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
the non-application of Medicare com-
petitive acquisition rates to complex
rehabilitative wheelchairs and acces-
sories.
S. 1235
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. SCOTT), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. LANKFORD), the
Senator from Delaware (Mr. COONS),
the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZ-
MAN), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
INHOFE) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1235, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of ratification
of the 19th Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States, giving
women in the United States the right
to vote.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1279, a bill to reauthor-
ize mandatory funding programs for
historically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving insti-
tutions.
S. 1298
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 1298, a bill to amend
the Financial Stability Act of 2010 to
include the State insurance commis-
sioner as a voting member of the Fi-
nancial Stability Oversight Council,
and for other purposes.
S. 1370
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) and
the Senator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1370, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to treat certain military
survivor benefits as earned income for
purposes of the kiddie tax.
S. 1414
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1414, a bill to provide bankruptcy
relief for student borrowers.
S. 1418
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1418, a bill to establish
the Strength in Diversity Program,
and for other purposes.
S. 1469
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) and the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1469, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit inter-
fering in elections with agents of a for-
eign government.
S. 1482
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1482, a bill to establish an inte-
grated national approach to respond to
ongoing and expected effects of ex-
treme weather and climate change by
protecting, managing, and conserving
the fish, wildlife, and plants of the
United States, and to maximize Gov-
ernment efficiency and reduce costs, in
cooperation with State, local, and
Tribal governments and other entities,
and for other purposes.
S. 1508
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1508, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to provide en-
hanced penalties for convicted mur-
derers who kill or target America’s
public safety officers.
S. 1528
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1528, a bill to amend title 31,
United States Code, to provide for the
issuance of Green Bonds and to estab-
lish the United States Green Bank, and
for other purposes.
S. 1531
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) and the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1531, a bill to amend
the Public Health Service Act to pro-
vide protections for health insurance
consumers from surprise billing.
S. 1537
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1537, a bill to ensure America’s
law enforcement officers have access to
lifesaving equipment needed to defend
themselves and civilians from attacks
by terrorists and violent criminals.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 80, a resolution estab-
lishing the John S. McCain III Human
Rights Commission.
S. RES. 135
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS), the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER), the Sen-
ator from Utah (Mr. ROMNEY), the Sen-
ator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the Sen-
ator from Texas (Mr. CORNYN) and the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 135, a
resolution expressing the gratitude and
appreciation of the Senate for the acts
of heroism and valor by the members of
the United States Armed Forces who
participated in the June 6, 1944, am-
phibious landing at Normandy, France,
and commending those individuals for
leadership and bravery in an operation
that helped bring an end to World War
II.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself
and Mr. KAINE):
S. 1541. A bill to increase the min-
imum age for sale of tobacco products
to 21; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today, I am introducing Federal legis-
lation to make 21 the new minimum
age for purchasing any tobacco product
anywhere in the United States. Let me
say that again—a new age nationwide
for purchasing anything classified as a
tobacco product—cigarettes, e-ciga-
rettes, vapor products, and everything
else. It shouldn’t be 18 any longer; it
should be 21, and this legislation will
make that happen.
I recognize I might seem like an un-
usual candidate to lead this charge. I
am the senior Senator from Kentucky.
I have consistently stood up for our
Kentucky farmers, including our to-
bacco farmers. I championed the to-
bacco buyout back in 2004. But actually
my long experience with this subject
and my commitment to farm families
are part of what has convinced me that
now is the right time to do this. I
would like to say a few words about
why.
Tobacco has been deeply intertwined
in our Nation’s history from the very
beginning. Native Americans grew it
and used it before European explorers
ever arrived. John Rolfe—the famous
settler who later married Pocahontas—
kick-started Virginia’s export economy
using foreign tobacco seeds in 1612.
By the eve of the Revolution, tobacco
was a major export and a huge part of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.008 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2965
May 20, 2019
our colony’s prosperity. Many tobacco
farmers were energetic early backers of
independence. George Washington grew
tobacco at Mount Vernon, at first as
his primary crop. In Benjamin Frank-
lin’s newspapers, some of the earliest
ads for American tobacco ran alongside
the essays urging Americans to stand
up for freedom. Several million pounds
of tobacco were actually used as collat-
eral to help secure the loans they need-
ed from France. Years later, Lewis and
Clark used it as a peace offering to the
Native Tribes they met while they
were headed west. And, like too many
other parts of early American history,
tobacco’s development was closely
linked with the sin of slavery.
So tobacco has been a part of this
country right from the start—so much
so, in fact, that right here in the U.S.
Capitol, artisans replaced the tradi-
tional designs in many of the Roman-
style columns and chiseled American
tobacco leaves in their place. Right
here in this Chamber, we still have
some old spittoons. We used to have
Senate snuff boxes filled on the tax-
payers’ dime. The residue on the floors
used to be so considerable that Charles
Dickens warned fellow visitors not to
pick up anything they dropped unless
they had a pair of gloves on. One of the
Senators Dickens actually admired
most from that visit was Henry Clay.
And, befitting the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and our own rich history
with the crop, that legendary Ken-
tuckian was also a legendary tobacco
enthusiast.
When the first settlers came over the
Appalachians into what is now Ken-
tucky, tobacco offered the perfect op-
portunity to jump-start their new
lives. A pocketful of seeds was enough
for a downpayment on a new, economi-
cally secure future for your family.
Kentucky had fertile soil. We had fa-
vorable summers. We had inland water-
ways and access to the Mississippi for
shipping.
Before long, burley tobacco was a
staple crop for literally tens of thou-
sands of Kentucky farms. For a time,
we led even Virginia and North Caro-
lina as the No. 1 tobacco State. Genera-
tions of farmers, even if they weren’t
primarily tobacco growers, would plant
a little corner of it to help float the
rest of the operation. Farming tobacco
put shoes on kids’ feet. It put dinner on
the table. For many in Kentucky, to-
bacco made the American dream pos-
sible. It is a central pillar of our
State’s history.
In fact, back in the early 1900s, there
was literally an armed conflict called
the Black Patch War that revolved
around tobacco prices. Farmers were
against farmers. We are talking about
beatings and horse whippings. Barns
were burned. Eventually, martial law
was declared in part of Kentucky. We
are talking about neighbor-on-neighbor
violence that was reminiscent of the
Civil War—all over tobacco prices. The
conflict was actually memorialized in
the book ‘‘Night Rider,’’ the first novel
by Robert Penn Warren, the famous
Kentucky-born writer who won mul-
tiple Pulitzers and served as U.S. Poet
Laureate.
A few decades later, in the late 1930s,
Senator Alben Barkley—the only other
Kentuckian to serve as majority lead-
er—set up a top-down quota system
that got Washington heavily involved
in the tobacco market to try to provide
price special assurance for farmers.
So when I first arrived here in the
Senate in 1985, more than two-thirds of
Kentucky’s farmers grew some to-
bacco, and it accounted for almost half
of the value of all the agricultural pro-
duction in my State. But, of course, de-
mand for U.S. tobacco has gone down
as, among other factors, our knowledge
of the health consequences has gone
up.
Even as early as the late 1800s, when
the transition began from all the var-
ied forms of tobacco toward the mod-
ern, mass-marketed, mass-produced
cigarette industry, there was concern.
Those concerns went mainstream with
the Surgeon General’s report on smok-
ing in the 1960s, and of course our un-
derstanding has only grown with more
research. By 2004, these concerns, plus
foreign competition, were making that
quota system less of a helpful backstop
and more of a stranglehold. So there
was interest on all sides in unwinding
this archaic system without pulling
the rug out from under our growers.
I secured the Fair and Equitable To-
bacco Reform Act, known as the to-
bacco buyout, which President Bush 43
signed into law. It wound down the spe-
cial treatment for tobacco, while also
providing the farmers who had invested
heavily in these quotas 10 years of
buyout payments to ease their transi-
tion.
What has happened since then has
been a very exciting story. Just as
Kentucky farmers once led the Nation
in cultivating tobacco and helped write
that important chapter in American
history, they are now helping to write
the next chapter of innovation.
We aren’t interested in banning to-
bacco. We aren’t interested in turning
our backs on adults who choose to use
these products or pretending we aren’t
proud of the Kentuckians who still
grow it. But as the market has settled,
many of our farmers have seized the
opportunity to try new things.
Just a few years before the buyout,
almost 30,000 Kentucky farms were still
growing tobacco. It still made up about
one-quarter of all of our farmers’ cash
receipts statewide. But the 10-year
buyout program ended in 2014. These
days, instead of 30,000 farms growing
tobacco in the Commonwealth, it is
more like 2,600. It still brings in hun-
dreds of millions of dollars, but now it
is only 6 percent of our total receipts
from agriculture. Freed from the sunk
costs of a quota system, our farmers
have been able to participate in a more
free market and reap the benefits. In
fact, overall cash receipts from agri-
culture actually set a new record in
2014—the very same year the buyout
ended. I am proud the 2004 policy I
achieved has been a success. Kentucky
farmers have taken the ball, however,
and they have run with it.
I mentioned that George Washington
initially planted a whole lot of tobacco
at Mount Vernon before a variety of
factors led him to scale it back and ex-
periment with other things. One of
those new crops was hemp. That was
all the way back in the 1770s. As usual,
George Washington knew what he was
doing.
Industrial hemp is making a come-
back today, and Kentucky farmers
asked for help to change the outdated
Federal laws that confused the plant
with cannabis and prevented them
from exploring the crop.
In 2014, I fought and won for farmers
the right to explore hemp through
State pilot projects. In last year’s farm
bill, my provision finished the job and
made hemp a fully legal commodity
nationwide. Now we are seeing the fu-
ture take shape right before our eyes.
Farmers in 99 of 120 counties are grow-
ing hemp. Processors are reporting
more than $50 million in gross sales.
And this is just one of the new crops
our farmers are using to chart new di-
rections and connect Kentucky’s past
with its future.
I realize this has been quite a history
lesson, but Kentuckians are used to
hearing sweeping statements about our
tobacco industry from folks outside the
State who know none of this history
and yet have no problem forming
strong opinions. We are proud of our
past. We are proud of who we are. But
Kentucky farmers don’t want their
children to get hooked on tobacco
products while they are in middle
school or high school any more than
any parents anywhere want that to
happen. Kentucky is proud of what we
make, but we also take pride in the
health and development of our chil-
dren.
The sad reality is that Kentucky has
been the home to the highest rates of
cancer in the country. We lead the en-
tire Nation in the percentage of cancer
cases tied directly to smoking. Our
State once grew tobacco like none
other, and now we are being hit by the
health consequences of tobacco use
like none other.
Nationwide, we are in the middle of a
completely new public health epidemic
that is really threatening our progress
in youth tobacco use—the use of e-ciga-
rettes and vaping. This spike has been
concentrated in teenagers—and not
just 18-year-olds. Moms and dads across
the country are seeing their middle and
high schoolers take up this new habit
and start down a deadly path that our
society has previously spent decades
working hard to close down.
From 2017 to 2018, high school stu-
dents’ use of what are classified as to-
bacco products shot up by nearly 40
percent. That is a staggering figure, es-
pecially in a single year. That increase
is driven almost entirely by vaping.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.002 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2966 May 20, 2019
The brain is still developing at this
young age. When teenagers use to-
bacco, they are quite literally altering
their brain’s chemistry and making it
more susceptible to addiction. Many
young vape users aren’t buying the
products themselves but sharing them
with a friend. And remember, 90 per-
cent of adult daily smokers say they
used their first tobacco product before
age 19.
Youth vaping is a public health cri-
sis. It is our responsibility, as parents
and public servants, to do everything
we can to keep these harmful products
out of high schools and out of youth
culture. We need to put the national
age of purchase at 21.
That is why I am introducing this
legislation in recognition of tobacco’s
storied past in Kentucky and aware of
the threat that all tobacco products
pose now and for future generations. I
am proud to partner on this effort with
Senator TIM KAINE, who represents an-
other Commonwealth with a long his-
tory of growing tobacco. I know there
is interest from Members on both sides
of the aisle, including Senators YOUNG,
ROMNEY, SCHATZ, and others. This is
not a zero-sum choice between farmers
and public health. We can support
both. We need to support both, but the
health of our children is literally at
stake.
That is why I will make enacting this
legislation one of my highest prior-
ities, and I look forward to working
with all of our colleagues to make that
happen.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to
support the words of my colleague,
Leader MCCONNELL, and to thank him
for working on this important piece of
legislation, the Tobacco-Free Youth
Act. I will offer some thoughts about
why I have been happy to work with
Leader MCCONNELL and with other Sen-
ators who share the goal of raising the
national tobacco age to 21.
Like Senator MCCONNELL, I come
from a tobacco State. The Jamestown-
based Virginia Company was chartered
by King James, landing at Jamestown
in 1607, and beginning the English col-
onization of the United States. They
almost didn’t make it. They could eas-
ily have failed like other English set-
tlements in the Outer Banks of North
Carolina or others, but two things
saved them.
The first was the magnanimity of the
Powhatan Indians, who, in those early
years, when times were tough, helped
them to survive and helped them to get
over times of drought and hunger. The
second thing was the discovery of, as
Leader MCCONNELL mentioned, the to-
bacco seeds in Virginia that, through
the efforts of John Roth and others, be-
came such a powerful driver of the Vir-
ginia agricultural economy. Had it not
been for tobacco and had it not been
for the Powhatan Indians, the James-
town colony would likely have dis-
appeared.
Tobacco has such a place in our his-
tory that in the ceiling of both of the
legislative chambers in the Virginia
Capitol, designed by Thomas Jefferson,
the ceiling is circled by gold-embossed
tobacco leaves. We restored the capitol
in 2000 and restored the gold embossing
because we understand that it was to-
bacco that helped create modern Vir-
ginia.
In the city of Richmond, where I live
and where I served as mayor, one of the
largest cigarette-producing manufac-
turers in the world is the Philip Morris
plant in South Richmond, which over
decades has been a fantastic employer
of local Virginians and local residents.
As Governor, I was proud to work on
tobacco initiatives because, as the
leader indicated, as we become more
aware of public health consequences,
there has been more need to try to
stem the challenges that these health
consequences create.
When I was Governor, I worked in
tandem with my Republican speaker of
the house to ban smoking in res-
taurants and bars, which was a tough,
tough sell at that time back in 2009,
but we made it happen. Probably my
happiest day as a Governor, vis-a-vis
tobacco, was the day where I went to
Chesterfield County in suburban Rich-
mond, and, together with bipartisan
legislators, we celebrated the results
that had just come out that showed
that for the first time in recorded his-
tory the youth smoking rate in Vir-
ginia was below the national average.
Much like Kentucky, we have been
above the national average because in
a State where it is a product that you
are proud of, everyone is encouraged to
use it. But by about 2009, we were
below the national average, and we felt
very good about that.
I am here with Senator MCCONNELL,
partly because of our history, but real-
ly I am here, as he indicated, because
of the current challenge. We are back-
sliding. We are backsliding. The recent
increases in youth tobacco use dem-
onstrate that we need to do more.
Current youth tobacco product use
has increased dramatically from 2017 to
2018, completely erasing the decline in
tobacco product use among youth that
had been happening for many years.
From the CDC, this increase is driven
largely by e-cigarettes. More than 1 in
4 high schoolers in 2018 and 1 in 14 mid-
dle schoolers in 2018 had used a tobacco
product in the last 30 days—a dramatic
increase from 2017—and 1.5 million
more young people used e-cigarettes in
2018 than in 2017.
E-cigarettes are the most commonly
used product among the young, and
they are frequently used in combina-
tion with other tobacco products. The
recent increase in the use of tobacco
products is heavily, heavily driven by
the popularity of e-cigarettes, shaped
like a flash drive, able to be shared
with friends, and sold in kid-friendly
flavors with a high nicotine content.
Disturbingly, it is not only e-ciga-
rettes. The use of any tobacco product
grew by more than 38 percent among
high schoolers from 2017 to 2018, and in
Virginia, where we had celebrated in
our State that it was below the na-
tional average, we are seeing dramatic
increases. And 16.3 percent of high
school youth are reporting using any
tobacco product, and 6.5 percent of
those—one-third of those—smoke ciga-
rettes.
According to the CDC, any use of to-
bacco products by the young is consid-
ered unsafe. The leader laid out how
the use of these e-cigarettes alter the
chemistry of the brain and actually
make a young person more prone for
the rest of their life to becoming ad-
dicted. And it is not just addiction. It
is also learning, memory, attention,
impulse control, and cognition. The use
of tobacco also increases among the
young the likelihood of developing
mood disorders like anxiety and de-
pression.
So there is a strong rationale for this
bill, and I was honored when the major-
ity leader asked about a month ago if
I would work together with him on a
bipartisan bill as two Senators from to-
bacco States, joining others to find a
way to raise the age from 18 to 21.
Now, 95 percent of adult smokers
begin smoking before the age of 21. The
Institute of Medicine, now the National
Academy of Medicine, did research re-
cently showing that increasing the to-
bacco age to 21 will, over time, signifi-
cantly reduce the number of young and
young adult smoking, as well as smok-
ing-caused deaths, and improve public
health and save lives.
What does our bill do? Our bill raises
the Federal minimum age to purchase
any tobacco products from 18 to 21. We
direct the FDA to update their current
regulations and enforcement structure
for the current 18 age minimum and
apply to it to the new 21 age minimum.
We encourage States to pass their own
laws raising the age to 21 and require
the States to enforce those laws and
meet other requirements, as they cur-
rently do, pursuant to the Synar
Amendment. Our legislation would
apply to all populations and to all
types of tobacco products, including e-
cigarettes.
As a father of a marine and as a
member of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, I strongly feel that we
should extend the same public health
protections to members of the military
as we do though their civilian counter-
parts. I look forward to working with
the majority leader and so many others
on both sides of the aisle to do a good
thing for public health, to do a good
thing for our young people, and raise
the tobacco age to 21.
As the leader mentioned, there are
other Senators—Senators ROMNEY and
YOUNG, Senators SCHATZ and DURBIN,
and Senator MURRAY—who have in-
vested their energies in this effort. We
pledge to work together with all of
them. We can come together to do this
on behalf of our young people.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.003 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2967
May 20, 2019
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1541
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Tobacco-
Free Youth Act’’.
SEC. 2. MINIMUM AGE OF SALE OF TOBACCO
PRODUCTS.
(a) ESTABLISHING MINIMUM AGE OF 21 FOR
SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.—Section 1926 of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
300x–26) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AGE
OF 18’’ and inserting ‘‘AGE OF 21’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘age of 18’’ each place such
phrase appears and inserting ‘‘age of 21’’;
(3) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 1994’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1993’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1994’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2022’’; and
(4) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and
inserting ‘‘2022’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘1994’’ and inserting ‘‘2021’’;
and
(ii) by striking the period and inserting ‘‘;
and’’;
(C) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively,
and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(D) by striking ‘‘this section, the term’’
and inserting ‘‘this section—
‘‘(1) the term’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) the term ‘tobacco product’ has the
meaning given such term in section 201(rr) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.’’.
(b) FDA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 906(d) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
387f(d)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (3)(A)(ii), by striking ‘‘18
years’’ and inserting ‘‘21 years’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) MINIMUM AGE OF SALE.—It shall be un-
lawful for any retailer to sell a tobacco prod-
uct to any person younger than 21 years of
age, consistent with section 1140.14 of title
21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulations).’’.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall update regulations issued under chap-
ter IX of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 387 et seq.) as appro-
priate to carry out the amendments made by
paragraph (1).
(c) NON-PREEMPTION.—Nothing in the
amendments made by subsection (a) or (b)
shall be construed to prevent a State or local
governmental entity from establishing, en-
forcing, or maintaining a law with respect to
sales of tobacco products to individuals
below a minimum age, provided that such
State or local law is in addition to, or more
stringent than, Federal law.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 1550. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the
work opportunity credit for certain
youth employees, and to extend em-
powerment zones; to the Committee on
Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1550
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Helping to
Encourage Real Opportunities (HERO) for
At-Risk Youth Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF WORK
OPPORTUNITY CREDIT FOR CER-
TAIN YOUTH EMPLOYEES.
(a) EXPANSION OF CREDIT FOR SUMMER
YOUTH.—
(1) CREDIT ALLOWED FOR YEAR-ROUND EM-
PLOYMENT.—Section 51(d)(7)(A) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(A) by striking clauses (i) and (iii) and re-
designating clauses (ii) and (iv) as clauses (i)
and (ii), respectively,
(B) in clause (i) (as so redesignated), by
striking ‘‘(or if later, on May 1 of the cal-
endar year involved),’’,
(C) by striking the period at the end of
clause (ii) (as so redesignated) and inserting
‘‘, and’’, and
(D) adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) who will be employed for not more
than 20 hours per week during any period be-
tween September 16 and April 30 in which
such individual is regularly attending any
secondary school.’’.
(2) INCREASE IN CREDIT AMOUNT.—Section
51(d)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and
by redesignating subparagraph (C) as sub-
paragraph (B).
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Subparagraph (F) of section 51(d)(1) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking ‘‘summer’’.
(B) Paragraph (7) of section 51(d) of such
Code is amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘summer’’ each place it ap-
pears in subparagraphs (A);
(ii) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘subparagraph
(A)(iv)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph
(A)(ii)’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘SUMMER’’ in the heading
thereof.
(b) CREDIT FOR AT-RISK YOUTH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section
51(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of sub-
paragraph (I), by striking the period at the
end of subparagraph (J) and inserting ‘‘, or’’,
and by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(K) an at-risk youth.’’.
(2) AT-RISK YOUTH.—Paragraph (14) of sec-
tion 51(d) of such Code is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(14) AT-RISK YOUTH.—The term ‘at-risk
youth’ means any individual who is certified
by the designated local agency—
‘‘(A) as—
‘‘(i) having attained age 16 but not age 25
on the hiring date,
‘‘(ii) as not regularly attending any sec-
ondary, technical, or post-secondary school
during the 6-month period preceding the hir-
ing date,
‘‘(iii) as not regularly employed during
such 6-month period, and
‘‘(iv) as not readily employable by reason
of lacking a sufficient number of basic skills,
or
‘‘(B) as—
‘‘(i) having attained age 16 but not age 21
on the hiring date, and
‘‘(ii) an eligible foster child (as defined in
section 152(f)(1)(C)) who was in foster care
during the 12-month period ending on the
hiring date.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to individ-
uals who begin work for the employer after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF EMPOWERMENT ZONES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1391(d)(1)(A)(i) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2017’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2020’’.
(b) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TERMINATION
DATES SPECIFIED IN NOMINATIONS.—In the
case of a designation of an empowerment
zone the nomination for which included a
termination date which is contemporaneous
with the date specified in subparagraph
(A)(i) of section 1391(d)(1) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect before the
enactment of this Act), subparagraph (B) of
such section shall not apply with respect to
such designation if, after the date of the en-
actment of this section, the entity which
made such nomination amends the nomina-
tion to provide for a new termination date in
such manner as the Secretary of the Treas-
ury (or the Secretary’s designee) may pro-
vide.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 1551. A bill to amend the Work-
force Innovation and Opportunity Act
to provide funding, on a competitive
basis, for summer and year-round em-
ployment opportunities for youth ages
14 through 24; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1551
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Creating
Pathways for Youth Employment Act’’.
SEC. 2. YOUTH EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
Title I of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act is amended—
(1) by redesignating subtitle E as subtitle
F; and
(2) by inserting after subtitle D the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Subtitle E—Youth Employment
Opportunities
‘‘SEC. 176. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this subtitle:
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE YOUTH.—The term ‘eligible
youth’ means an individual who—
‘‘(A) is not younger than age 14 or older
than age 24; and
‘‘(B) is—
‘‘(i) an in-school youth;
‘‘(ii) an out-of-school youth; or
‘‘(iii) an unemployed individual.
‘‘(2) HARDEST-TO-EMPLOY, MOST-AT-RISK.—
The term ‘hardest-to-employ, most-at-risk’,
used with respect to an individual, includes
individuals who are homeless, in foster care,
involved in the juvenile or criminal justice
system, or are not enrolled in or at risk of
dropping out of an educational institution
and who live in an underserved community
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.014 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2968 May 20, 2019
that has faced trauma through acute or long-
term exposure to substantial discrimination,
historical or cultural oppression, intergen-
erational poverty, civil unrest, a high rate of
violence, or a high rate of drug overdose
mortality.
‘‘(3) INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL ORGANIZATION.—
The terms ‘Indian tribe’ and ‘tribal organiza-
tion’ have the meanings given the terms in
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
5304).
‘‘(4) IN-SCHOOL YOUTH; OUT-OF-SCHOOL
YOUTH.—The terms ‘in-school youth’ and
‘out-of-school youth’ have the meanings
given the terms in section 129(a)(1).
‘‘(5) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
The term ‘institution of higher education’
has the meaning given the term in section
101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001).
‘‘(6) SUBSIDIZED EMPLOYMENT.—The term
‘subsidized employment’ means employment
for which the employer receives a total or
partial subsidy to offset costs of employing
an eligible youth under this subtitle.
‘‘(7) TRIBAL AREA.—The term ‘tribal area’
means—
‘‘(A) an area on or adjacent to an Indian
reservation;
‘‘(B) land held in trust by the United
States for Indians;
‘‘(C) a public domain Indian allotment;
‘‘(D) a former Indian reservation in Okla-
homa; and
‘‘(E) land held by an incorporated Native
group, Regional Corporation, or Village Cor-
poration under the provisions of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.).
‘‘(8) TRIBAL COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY.—The
term ‘tribal college or university’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Tribal College or
University’ in section 316(b) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)).
‘‘(9) TRIBALLY DESIGNATED HOUSING ENTI-
TY.—The term ‘tribally designated housing
entity’, used with respect to an Indian tribe
(as defined in this section), has the meaning
given in section 4 of the Native American
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination
Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
‘‘SEC. 176A. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
‘‘(a) ALLOCATION.—Of the funds appro-
priated under section 176E that remain avail-
able after any reservation under subsection
(b), the Secretary may make available—
‘‘(1) not more than $1,500,000,000 in accord-
ance with section 176B to provide eligible
youth with subsidized summer employment
opportunities; and
‘‘(2) not more than $2,000,000,000 in accord-
ance with section 176C to provide eligible
youth with subsidized year-round employ-
ment opportunities.
‘‘(b) RESERVATION.—The Secretary may re-
serve not more than 10 percent of the funds
appropriated under section 176E to provide
technical assistance and oversight, in order
to assist eligible entities in applying for and
administering grants awarded under this
subtitle.
‘‘SEC. 176B. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT COMPETI-
TIVE GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) GRANTS.—Using the amounts made
available under 176A(a)(1), the Secretary
shall award, on a competitive basis, planning
and implementation grants.
‘‘(2) GENERAL USE OF FUNDS.—The Sec-
retary shall award the grants to assist eligi-
ble entities by paying for the program share
of the cost of—
‘‘(A) in the case of a planning grant, plan-
ning a summer youth employment program
to provide subsidized summer employment
opportunities; and
‘‘(B) in the case of an implementation
grant, implementation of such a program, to
provide such opportunities.
‘‘(b) PERIODS AND AMOUNTS OF GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) PLANNING GRANTS.—The Secretary
may award a planning grant under this sec-
tion for a 1-year period, in an amount of not
more than $200,000.
‘‘(2) IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS.—The Sec-
retary may award an implementation grant
under this section for a 3-year period, in an
amount of not more than $5,000,000.
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive
a planning or implementation grant under
this section, an entity shall—
‘‘(A) be a—
‘‘(i) State, local government, or Indian
tribe or tribal organization, that meets the
requirements of paragraph (2); or
‘‘(ii) community-based organization that
meets the requirements of paragraph (3); and
‘‘(B) meet the requirements for a planning
or implementation grant, respectively, speci-
fied in paragraph (4).
‘‘(2) GOVERNMENT PARTNERSHIPS.—An enti-
ty that is a State, local government, or In-
dian tribe or tribal organization referred to
in paragraph (1) shall demonstrate that the
entity has entered into a partnership with
State, local, or tribal entities—
‘‘(A) that shall include—
‘‘(i) a local educational agency or tribal
educational agency (as defined in section
6132 of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7452));
‘‘(ii) a local board or tribal workforce de-
velopment agency;
‘‘(iii) a State, local, or tribal agency serv-
ing youth under the jurisdiction of the juve-
nile justice system or criminal justice sys-
tem;
‘‘(iv) a State, local, or tribal child welfare
agency;
‘‘(v) a State, local, or tribal agency or com-
munity-based organization, with—
‘‘(I) expertise in providing counseling serv-
ices, and trauma-informed and gender-re-
sponsive trauma prevention, identification,
referral, and support (including treatment)
services; and
‘‘(II) a proven track record of serving low-
income vulnerable youth and out-of-school
youth; and
‘‘(vi) if the State, local government, or In-
dian tribe or tribal organization is seeking
an implementation grant, and has not estab-
lished a summer youth employment pro-
gram, an entity that is carrying out a State,
local, or tribal summer youth employment
program; and
‘‘(vii) an employer or employer associa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) that may include—
‘‘(i) an institution of higher education or
tribal college or university;
‘‘(ii) a representative of a labor or labor-
management organization;
‘‘(iii) an entity that carries out a program
that receives funding under the Juvenile
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) or section 212 of
the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C.
17532);
‘‘(iv) a collaborative applicant as defined
in section 401 of the McKinney-Vento Home-
less Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360) or a pri-
vate nonprofit organization that serves
homeless individuals and households (includ-
ing such an applicant or organization that
serves individuals or households that are at
risk of homelessness in tribal areas) or
serves foster youth;
‘‘(v) an entity that carries out a program
funded under the Carl D. Perkins Career and
Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C.
2301 et seq.), including Native American pro-
grams funded under section 116 of that Act
(20 U.S.C. 2326) and tribally controlled post-
secondary career and technical institution
programs funded under section 117 of that
Act (20 U.S.C. 2327);
‘‘(vi) a local or tribal youth committee;
‘‘(vii) a State or local public housing agen-
cy or a tribally designated housing entity;
and
‘‘(viii) another appropriate State, local, or
tribal agency.
‘‘(3) COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATION PART-
NERSHIPS.—A community-based organization
referred to in paragraph (1) shall dem-
onstrate that the organization has entered
into a partnership with State, local, or tribal
entities—
‘‘(A) that shall include—
‘‘(i) a unit of general local government or
tribal government;
‘‘(ii) an agency described in paragraph
(2)(A)(i);
‘‘(iii) a local board or tribal workforce de-
velopment agency;
‘‘(iv) a State, local, or tribal agency serv-
ing youth under the jurisdiction of the juve-
nile justice system or criminal justice sys-
tem;
‘‘(v) a State, local, or tribal child welfare
agency;
‘‘(vi) if the organization is seeking an im-
plementation grant, and has not established
a summer youth employment program, an
entity that is carrying out a State, local, or
tribal summer youth employment program;
and
‘‘(vii) an employer or employer associa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) that may include one or more entities
described in paragraph (2)(B).
‘‘(4) ENTITIES ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICULAR
GRANTS.—
‘‘(A) ENTITIES ELIGIBLE FOR PLANNING
GRANTS.—The Secretary may award a plan-
ning grant under this section to an eligible
entity that—
‘‘(i) is preparing to establish or expand a
summer youth employment program that
meets the minimum requirements specified
in subsection (d); and
‘‘(ii) has not received a grant under this
section.
‘‘(B) ENTITIES ELIGIBLE FOR IMPLEMENTA-
TION GRANTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may
award an implementation grant under this
section to an eligible entity that—
‘‘(I) has received a planning grant under
this section; or
‘‘(II) has established a summer youth em-
ployment program and demonstrates a min-
imum level of capacity to enhance or expand
the summer youth employment program de-
scribed in the application submitted under
subsection (d).
‘‘(ii) CAPACITY.—In determining whether an
entity has the level of capacity referred to in
clause (i)(II), the Secretary may include as
capacity—
‘‘(I) the entity’s staff capacity and staff
training to deliver youth employment serv-
ices; and
‘‘(II) the entity’s existing youth employ-
ment services (as of the date of submission of
the application submitted under subsection
(d)) that are consistent with the application.
‘‘(d) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an eligible entity desiring to
receive a grant under this section for a sum-
mer youth employment program shall sub-
mit an application to the Secretary at such
time, in such manner, and containing such
information as the Secretary may require,
including, at a minimum, each of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) With respect to an application for a
planning or implementation grant—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.017 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2969
May 20, 2019
‘‘(i) a description of the eligible youth for
whom summer employment services will be
provided;
‘‘(ii) a description of the eligible entity,
and a description of the expected participa-
tion and responsibilities of each of the part-
ners in the partnership described in sub-
section (c);
‘‘(iii) information demonstrating sufficient
need for the grant in the State, local, or trib-
al population, which may include informa-
tion showing—
‘‘(I) a high level of unemployment among
youth (including young adults) ages 14
through 24;
‘‘(II) a high rate of out-of-school youth;
‘‘(III) a high rate of homelessness;
‘‘(IV) a high rate of poverty;
‘‘(V) a high rate of adult unemployment;
‘‘(VI) a high rate of community or neigh-
borhood crime;
‘‘(VII) a high rate of violence; or
‘‘(VIII) a high level or rate on another indi-
cator of need;
‘‘(iv) a description of the strategic objec-
tives the eligible entity seeks to achieve
through the program to provide eligible
youth with core work readiness skills, which
may include—
‘‘(I) financial literacy skills, including pro-
viding the support described in section
129(b)(2)(D);
‘‘(II) sector-based technical skills aligned
with employer needs;
‘‘(III) skills that—
‘‘(aa) are soft employment skills, early
work skills, or work readiness skills; and
‘‘(bb) include social skills, communications
skills, higher-order thinking skills, self-con-
trol, and positive self-concept; and
‘‘(IV) (for the hardest-to-employ, most-at-
risk eligible youth) basic skills like commu-
nication, math, and problem solving in the
context of training for advancement to bet-
ter jobs and postsecondary training; and
‘‘(v) information demonstrating that the
eligible entity has obtained commitments to
provide the non-program share described in
paragraph (2) of subsection (h).
‘‘(B) With respect to an application for a
planning grant—
‘‘(i) a description of the intermediate and
long-term goals for planning activities for
the duration of the planning grant;
‘‘(ii) a description of how grant funds will
be used to develop a plan to provide summer
employment services for eligible youth;
‘‘(iii) a description of how the eligible enti-
ty will carry out an analysis of best prac-
tices for identifying, recruiting, and engag-
ing program participants, in particular the
hardest-to-employ, most-at-risk eligible
youth;
‘‘(iv) a description of how the eligible enti-
ty will carry out an analysis of best prac-
tices for placing youth participants—
‘‘(I) in opportunities that—
‘‘(aa) are appropriate subsidized employ-
ment opportunities with employers based on
factors including age, skill, experience, ca-
reer aspirations, work-based readiness, and
barriers to employment; and
‘‘(bb) may include additional services for
participants, including core work readiness
skill development and mentorship services;
‘‘(II) in summer employment that—
‘‘(aa) is not less than 6 weeks;
‘‘(bb) follows a schedule of not more than
20 hours per week; and
‘‘(cc) pays not less than the applicable Fed-
eral, State, or local minimum wage; and
‘‘(v) a description of how the eligible entity
plans to develop a mentorship program or
connect youth with positive, supportive
mentorships, consistent with paragraph (3).
‘‘(C) With respect to an application for an
implementation grant—
‘‘(i) a description of how the eligible entity
plans to identify, recruit, and engage pro-
gram participants, in particular the hardest-
to-employ, most-at-risk eligible youth;
‘‘(ii) a description of the manner in which
the eligible entity plans to place eligible
youth participants in subsidized employment
opportunities, and in summer employment,
described in subparagraph (B)(iv);
‘‘(iii) (for a program serving the hardest-
to-employ, most-at-risk eligible youth), a de-
scription of workplaces for the subsidized
employment involved, which may include
workplaces in the public, private, and non-
profit sectors;
‘‘(iv) a description of how the eligible enti-
ty plans to provide or connect eligible youth
participants with positive, supportive
mentorships, consistent with paragraph (3);
‘‘(v) a description of services that will be
available to employers participating in the
youth employment program, to provide su-
pervisors involved in the program with
coaching and mentoring on—
‘‘(I) how to support youth development;
‘‘(II) how to structure learning and reflec-
tion; and
‘‘(III) how to deal with youth challenges in
the workplace;
‘‘(vi) a description of how the eligible enti-
ty plans to offer structured pathways back
into employment and a youth employment
program under this section for eligible youth
who have been terminated from employment
or removed from the program;
‘‘(vii) a description of how the eligible en-
tity plans to engage eligible youth beyond
the duration of the summer employment op-
portunity, which may include—
‘‘(I) developing or partnering with a year-
round youth employment program;
‘‘(II) referring eligible youth to other year-
round programs, which may include—
‘‘(aa) programs funded under section 176C
or the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical
Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
‘‘(bb) after school programs;
‘‘(cc) secondary or postsecondary edu-
cation programs;
‘‘(dd) training programs;
‘‘(ee) cognitive behavior therapy programs;
‘‘(ff) apprenticeship programs; and
‘‘(gg) national service programs;
‘‘(III) employing a full-time, permanent
staff person who is responsible for youth out-
reach, followup, and recruitment; or
‘‘(IV) connecting eligible youth with job
development services, including career coun-
seling, resume and job application assist-
ance, interview preparation, and connections
to job leads;
‘‘(viii) evidence of the eligible entity’s ca-
pacity to provide the services described in
this subsection; and
‘‘(ix) a description of the quality of the
summer youth employment program, includ-
ing a program that leads to a recognized
postsecondary credential.
‘‘(2) INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS.—
An eligible entity that is an Indian tribe or
tribal organization and desires to receive a
grant under this section for a summer youth
employment program may, in lieu of submit-
ting the application described in paragraph
(1), submit an application to the Secretary
that meets such requirements as the Sec-
retary develops after consultation with the
tribe or organization.
‘‘(3) MENTOR.—For purposes of subpara-
graphs (B)(iv), (B)(v), and (C)(iv) of para-
graph (1), a mentor—
‘‘(A) shall be an individual who has been
matched with an eligible youth based on the
youth’s needs;
‘‘(B) shall make contact with the eligible
youth at least once each week;
‘‘(C) shall be a trusted member of the local
community; and
‘‘(D) may include—
‘‘(i) a mentor trained in trauma-informed
care (including provision of trauma-informed
trauma prevention, identification, referral,
or support services to youth that have expe-
rienced or are at risk of experiencing trau-
ma), conflict resolution, and positive youth
development;
‘‘(ii) a job coach trained to provide youth
with guidance on how to navigate the work-
place and troubleshoot problems;
‘‘(iii) a supervisor trained to provide at
least two performance assessments and serve
as a reference; or
‘‘(iv) a peer mentor who is a former or cur-
rent participant in the youth employment
program involved.
‘‘(e) AWARDS FOR POPULATIONS AND
AREAS.—
‘‘(1) POPULATIONS.—The Secretary shall re-
serve, from the amounts made available
under section 176A(a)(1)—
‘‘(A) 50 percent to award grants under this
section for planning or provision of sub-
sidized summer employment opportunities
for in-school youth; and
‘‘(B) 50 percent to award such grants to
plan for planning or provision of such oppor-
tunities for out-of-school youth.
‘‘(2) AREAS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In awarding the grants,
the Secretary shall consider the regional di-
versity of the areas to be served, to ensure
that urban, suburban, rural, and tribal areas
are receiving grant funds.
‘‘(B) RURAL AND TRIBAL AREA INCLUSION.—
‘‘(i) RURAL AREAS.—Not less than 20 per-
cent of the amounts made available under
section 176A(a)(1) for each fiscal year shall
be made available for activities to be carried
out in rural areas.
‘‘(ii) TRIBAL AREAS.—Not less than 5 per-
cent of the amounts made available under
section 176A(a)(1) for each fiscal year shall
be made available for activities to be carried
out in tribal areas.
‘‘(f) PROGRAM PRIORITIES.—In allocating
funds under this section, the Secretary shall
give priority to eligible entities—
‘‘(1) who propose to coordinate their activi-
ties—
‘‘(A) with local or tribal employers; and
‘‘(B) with agencies described in subsection
(c)(2)(A)(i) to ensure the summer youth em-
ployment programs provide clear linkages to
remedial, academic, and occupational pro-
grams carried out by the agencies;
‘‘(2) who propose a plan to increase private
sector engagement in, and job placement
through, summer youth employment; and
‘‘(3) who have, in their counties, States, or
tribal areas (as compared to other counties
in their State, other States, or other tribal
areas, respectively), a high level or rate de-
scribed in subsection (d)(1)(A)(iii).
‘‘(g) USE OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under this section may use
the grant funds for services described in sub-
section (d).
‘‘(2) DISCRETIONARY USES.—The eligible en-
tity may also use the funds—
‘‘(A) to provide wages to eligible youth in
subsidized summer employment programs;
‘‘(B) to provide eligible youth with support
services, including case management, child
care assistance, child support services, and
transportation assistance; and
‘‘(C) to develop data management systems
to assist with programming, evaluation, and
records management.
‘‘(3) ADMINISTRATION.—An eligible entity
may reserve not more than 10 percent of the
grant funds for the administration of activi-
ties under this section.
‘‘(4) CARRY-OVER AUTHORITY.—Any amounts
provided to an eligible entity under this sec-
tion for a fiscal year may, at the discretion
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.017 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2970 May 20, 2019
of the Secretary, remain available to that
entity for expenditure during the succeeding
fiscal year to carry out programs under this
section.
‘‘(h) PROGRAM SHARE.—
‘‘(1) PLANNING GRANTS.—The program share
for a planning grant awarded under this sec-
tion shall be 100 percent of the cost described
in subsection (a)(2)(A).
‘‘(2) IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The program share for
an implementation grant awarded under this
section shall be 50 percent of the cost de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2)(B).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the Secretary—
‘‘(i) may increase the program share for an
eligible entity; and
‘‘(ii) shall increase the program share for
an Indian tribe or tribal organization to not
less than 95 percent of the cost described in
subsection (a)(2)(B).
‘‘(C) NON-PROGRAM SHARE.—The eligible en-
tity may provide the non-program share of
the cost—
‘‘(i) in cash or in-kind, fairly evaluated, in-
cluding plant, equipment, or services; and
‘‘(ii) from State, local, tribal or private
(including philanthropic) sources and, in the
case of an Indian tribe or tribal organization,
from Federal sources.
‘‘SEC. 176C. YEAR-ROUND EMPLOYMENT COM-
PETITIVE GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) GRANTS.—Using the amounts made
available under 176A(a)(2), the Secretary
shall award, on a competitive basis, planning
and implementation grants.
‘‘(2) GENERAL USE OF FUNDS.—The Sec-
retary shall award the grants to assist eligi-
ble entities by paying for the program share
of the cost of—
‘‘(A) in the case of a planning grant, plan-
ning a year-round youth employment pro-
gram to provide subsidized year-round em-
ployment opportunities; and
‘‘(B) in the case of an implementation
grant, implementation of such a program to
provide such opportunities.
‘‘(b) PERIODS AND AMOUNTS OF GRANTS.—
The planning grants shall have the periods
and amounts described in section 176B(b)(1).
The implementation grants shall have the
periods and grants described in section
176B(b)(2).
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive
a planning or implementation grant under
this section, an entity shall, except as pro-
vided in paragraph (2)—
‘‘(A) be a—
‘‘(i) State, local government, or Indian
tribe or tribal organization, that meets the
requirements of section 176B(c)(2); or
‘‘(ii) community-based organization that
meets the requirements of section 176B(c)(3);
and
‘‘(B) meet the requirements for a planning
or implementation grant, respectively, speci-
fied in section 176B(c)(4).
‘‘(2) YEAR-ROUND YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PRO-
GRAMS.—For purposes of paragraph (1), any
reference in section 176B(c)—
‘‘(A) to a summer youth employment pro-
gram shall be considered to refer to a year-
round youth employment program; and
‘‘(B) to a provision of section 176B shall be
considered to refer to the corresponding pro-
vision of this section.
‘‘(d) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an eligible entity desiring to
receive a grant under this section for a year-
round youth employment program shall sub-
mit an application to the Secretary at such
time, in such manner, and containing such
information as the Secretary may require,
including, at a minimum, each of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) With respect to an application for a
planning or implementation grant, the infor-
mation and descriptions specified in section
176B(d)(1)(A).
‘‘(B) With respect to an application for a
planning grant, the descriptions specified in
section 176B(d)(1)(B), except that the descrip-
tion of an analysis for placing youth in em-
ployment described in clause (iv)(II)(bb) of
that section shall cover employment that
follows a schedule—
‘‘(i) that consists of—
‘‘(I) not more than 15 hours per week for
in-school youth; and
‘‘(II) not less than 20 and not more than 40
hours per week for out-of-school youth; and
‘‘(ii) that depends on the needs and work-
readiness level of the population being
served.
‘‘(C) With respect to an application for an
implementation grant, the descriptions and
evidence specified in section 176B(d)(1)(C)—
‘‘(i) except that the reference in section
176(d)(1)(C)(ii) to employment described in
section 176B(d)(1)(B) shall cover employment
that follows the schedule described in sub-
paragraph (B); and
‘‘(ii) except that the reference to programs
in clause (vii)(II)(aa) of that section shall be
considered to refer only to programs funded
under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Tech-
nical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et
seq.).
‘‘(2) INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS.—
An eligible entity that is an Indian tribe or
tribal organization and desires to receive a
grant under this section for a year-round
youth employment program may, in lieu of
submitting the application described in para-
graph (1), submit an application to the Sec-
retary that meets such requirements as the
Secretary develops after consultation with
the tribe or organization.
‘‘(3) MENTOR.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), any reference in subparagraphs (B)(iv),
(B)(v), and (C)(iv) of section 176B(d)(1) to a
mentor shall be considered to refer to a men-
tor who—
‘‘(A) shall be an individual described in
subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section
176B(d)(3);
‘‘(B) shall make contact with the eligible
youth at least twice each week; and
‘‘(C) may be an individual described in sec-
tion 176B(d)(3)(D).
‘‘(4) YEAR-ROUND EMPLOYMENT.—For pur-
poses of this subsection, any reference in sec-
tion 176B(d)—
‘‘(A) to summer employment shall be con-
sidered to refer to year-round employment;
and
‘‘(B) to a provision of section 176B shall be
considered to refer to the corresponding pro-
vision of this section.
‘‘(e) AWARDS FOR POPULATIONS AND AREAS;
PRIORITIES.—
‘‘(1) POPULATIONS.—The Secretary shall re-
serve, from the amounts made available
under section 176A(a)(2)—
‘‘(A) 50 percent to award grants under this
section for planning or provision of sub-
sidized year-round employment opportuni-
ties for in-school youth; and
‘‘(B) 50 percent to award such grants to
plan for planning or provision of such oppor-
tunities for out-of-school youth.
‘‘(2) AREAS; PRIORITIES.—In awarding the
grants, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) carry out section 176B(e)(2); and
‘‘(B) give priority to eligible entities—
‘‘(i) who—
‘‘(I) propose the coordination and plan de-
scribed paragraphs (1) and (2) of section
176B(f), with respect to year-round youth em-
ployment; and
‘‘(II) meet the requirements of section
176B(f)(3); or
‘‘(ii) who—
‘‘(I) propose a plan to coordinate activities
with entities carrying out State, local, or
tribal summer youth employment programs,
to provide pathways to year-round employ-
ment for eligible youth who are ending sum-
mer employment; and
‘‘(II) meet the requirements of section
176B(f)(3).
‘‘(f) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under this section may use
the grant funds—
‘‘(1) for services described in subsection (d);
‘‘(2) as described in section 176B(g)(2), with
respect to year-round employment programs;
‘‘(3) as described in section 176B(g)(3), with
respect to activities under this section; and
‘‘(4) at the discretion of the Secretary, as
described in section 176B(g)(4), with respect
to activities under this section.
‘‘(g) PROGRAM SHARE.—
‘‘(1) PLANNING GRANTS.—The provisions of
section 176B(h)(1) shall apply to planning
grants awarded under this section, with re-
spect to the cost described in subsection
(a)(2)(A).
‘‘(2) IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS.—The provi-
sions of section 176B(h)(2) shall apply to im-
plementation grants awarded under this sec-
tion, with respect to the cost described in
subsection (a)(2)(B).
‘‘SEC. 176D. EVALUATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
‘‘(a) PERFORMANCE MEASURES.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish performance measures for purposes
of annual reviews under subsection (b).
‘‘(2) COMPONENTS.—The performance meas-
ures for the eligible entities shall consist
of—
‘‘(A) the indicators of performance de-
scribed in paragraph (3); and
‘‘(B) an adjusted level of performance for
each indicator described in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The indicators of per-
formance shall consist of—
‘‘(i) the percentage of youth employment
program participants who are in education
or training activities, or in employment,
during the second quarter after exit from the
program;
‘‘(ii) the percentage of youth employment
program participants who are in education
or training activities, or in employment,
during the fourth quarter after exit from the
program;
‘‘(iii) the percentage of youth employment
program participants who obtain a recog-
nized postsecondary credential, or a sec-
ondary school diploma or its recognized
equivalent (subject to subparagraph (B)),
during participation in or within 1 year after
exit from the program; and
‘‘(iv) the percentage of youth employment
program participants who, during a program
year, are in a youth employment program
that includes an education or training pro-
gram that leads to an outcome specified by
the Secretary, which may include—
‘‘(I) obtaining a recognized postsecondary
credential or employment; or
‘‘(II) achieving measurable skill gains to-
ward such a credential or employment.
‘‘(B) INDICATOR RELATING TO CREDENTIAL.—
For purposes of subparagraph (A)(iii), youth
employment program participants who ob-
tain a secondary school diploma or its recog-
nized equivalent shall be included in the per-
centage counted as meeting the criterion
under such subparagraph only if such par-
ticipants, in addition to obtaining such di-
ploma or its recognized equivalent, have ob-
tained or retained employment or are in a
youth employment program that includes an
education or training program leading to a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.017 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2971
May 20, 2019
recognized postsecondary credential within 1
year after exit from the program.
‘‘(4) LEVELS OF PERFORMANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each eligible entity,
there shall be established, in accordance
with this paragraph, levels of performance
for each of the corresponding indicators of
performance described in paragraph (3).
‘‘(B) IDENTIFICATION IN APPLICATION.—Each
eligible entity shall identify, in the applica-
tion submitted under subsection (d) of sec-
tion 176B or 176C, expected levels of perform-
ance for each of those indicators of perform-
ance for each program year covered by the
application.
‘‘(C) AGREEMENT ON ADJUSTED LEVELS OF
PERFORMANCE.—The eligible entity shall
reach agreement with the Secretary on lev-
els of performance for each of those indica-
tors of performance for each such program
year. The levels agreed to shall be considered
to be the adjusted levels of performance for
the eligible entity for such program years
and shall be incorporated into the applica-
tion prior to the approval of such applica-
tion.
‘‘(b) ANNUAL REVIEW.—The Secretary shall
carry out an annual review of each eligible
entity receiving a grant under this subtitle.
In conducting the review, the Secretary shall
review the performance of the entity on the
performance measures under this section and
determine if the entity has used any prac-
tices that shall be considered best practices
for purposes of this subtitle.
‘‘(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
‘‘(1) PREPARATION.—The Secretary shall
prepare a report on the grant programs es-
tablished by this subtitle, which report shall
include a description of—
‘‘(A) the eligible entities receiving funding
under this subtitle;
‘‘(B) the activities carried out by the eligi-
ble entities;
‘‘(C) how the eligible entities were selected
to receive funding under this subtitle; and
‘‘(D) an assessment of the results achieved
by the grant programs including findings
from the annual reviews conducted under
subsection (b).
‘‘(2) SUBMISSION.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of the Creating
Pathways for Youth Employment Act, and
annually thereafter, the Secretary shall sub-
mit a report described in paragraph (1) to the
appropriate committees of Congress.
‘‘(d) APPLICATION TO INDIAN TRIBES AND
TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS.—The Secretary may
issue regulations that clarify the application
of all the provisions of this subtitle to Indian
tribes and tribal organizations.
‘‘SEC. 176E. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIA-
TIONS.
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated—
‘‘(1) to carry out section 176B, $300,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024; and
‘‘(2) to carry out section 176C, $400,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) REFERENCES.—
(1) Section 121(b)(1)(C)(ii)(II) of the Work-
force Investment and Opportunity Act (29
U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)(C)(ii)(II)) is amended by
striking ‘‘subtitles C through E’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subtitles C through F’’.
(2) Section 503(b) of such Act (29 U.S.C.
3343(b)) is amended by inserting before the
period the following: ‘‘(as such subtitles were
in effect on the day before the date of enact-
ment of this Act)’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents in section 1(b) of such Act is amended
by striking the item relating to the subtitle
heading for subtitle E of title I and inserting
the following:
‘‘Subtitle E—Youth Employment
Opportunities
‘‘Sec. 176. Definitions.
‘‘Sec. 176A. Allocation of funds.
‘‘Sec. 176B. Summer employment competi-
tive grant program.
‘‘Sec. 176C. Year-round employment com-
petitive grant program.
‘‘Sec. 176D. Evaluation and administration.
‘‘Sec. 176E. Authorization of appropria-
tions.’’.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. SANDERS, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and
Mr. KAINE):
S. 1552. A bill to decriminalize mari-
juana, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1552
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Marijuana
Freedom and Opportunity Act’’.
SEC. 2. DECRIMINALIZATION OF MARIJUANA.
(a) MARIHUANA REMOVED FROM SCHEDULE
OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.—Subsection (c)
of schedule I of section 202(c) of the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘marihuana’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘tetrahydrocannabinols’’.
(b) REMOVAL OF PROHIBITION ON IMPORT AND
EXPORT.—Section 1010(b) of the Controlled
Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C.
960) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon;
(B) by striking subparagraph (G); and
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (H) as
subparagraph (G);
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon;
(B) by striking subparagraph (G); and
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (H) as
subparagraph (G);
(3) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘para-
graphs (1), (2), and (4)’’ and inserting ‘‘para-
graphs (1) and (2)’’;
(4) by striking paragraph (4); and
(5) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and
(7) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respec-
tively.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CON-
TROLLED SUBSTANCES ACT.—The Controlled
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 102(44) (21 U.S.C. 802(44)), by
striking ‘‘marihuana,’’;
(2) in section 401(b) (21 U.S.C. 841(b))—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) in clause (vi), by inserting ‘‘or’’ after
the semicolon;
(II) by striking (vii); and
(III) by redesignating clause (viii) as clause
(vii);
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking clause (vii); and
(II) by redesignating clause (viii) as clause
(vii);
(iii) in subparagraph (C), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs (A)
and (B)’’;
(iv) by striking subparagraph (D);
(v) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (D); and
(vi) in subparagraph (D)(i), as so redesig-
nated, by striking ‘‘subparagraphs (C) and
(D)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (C)’’;
(B) by striking paragraph (4); and
(C) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and
(7) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respec-
tively;
(3) in section 402(c)(2)(B) (21 U.S.C.
842(c)(2)(B)), by striking ‘‘, marihuana,’’;
(4) in section 403(d)(1) (21 U.S.C. 843(d)(1)),
by striking ‘‘, marihuana,’’;
(5) in section 418(a) (21 U.S.C. 859(a)), by
striking the last sentence;
(6) in section 419(a) (21 U.S.C. 860(a)), by
striking the last sentence;
(7) in section 422(d) (21 U.S.C. 863(d))—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘marijuana,’’; and
(B) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘, such as
a marihuana cigarette,’’; and
(8) in section 516(d) (21 U.S.C. 886(d)), by
striking ‘‘section 401(b)(6)’’ each place the
term appears and inserting ‘‘section
401(b)(5)’’.
(d) OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM DRUG CONTROL
ACT OF 1986.—The National Forest System
Drug Control Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 559b et
seq.) is amended—
(A) in section 15002(a) (16 U.S.C. 559b(a)) by
striking ‘‘marijuana and other’’;
(B) in section 15003(2) (16 U.S.C. 559c(2)) by
striking ‘‘marijuana and other’’; and
(C) in section 15004(2) (16 U.S.C. 559d(2)) by
striking ‘‘marijuana and other’’.
(2) INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICATIONS.—Sec-
tion 2516 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) in subsection (1)(e), by striking ‘‘mari-
huana,’’; and
(B) in subsection (2) by striking ‘‘mari-
huana,’’.
SEC. 3. LEVEL THE ECONOMIC PLAYING FIELD.
(a) ESTIMATE.—On an annual basis, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall make a rea-
sonable estimate of total tax revenue gen-
erated by the marijuana industry for the pre-
vious 12-month period.
(b) TRANSFER.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall transfer from the general fund of
the Treasury to the trust fund established
under subsection (c) the greater of—
(1) an amount equal to 10 percent of the
amount estimated under subsection (a); and
(2) $10,000,000.
(c) TRUST FUND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in the
Treasury of the United States a trust fund to
be known as the Marijuana Opportunity
Trust Fund, which shall consist of amounts
transferred under subsection (b).
(2) USE OF AMOUNTS.—Amounts in the trust
fund established under paragraph (1) shall be
made available to the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration to provide
loans under section 7(m) of the Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)) to assist—
(A) small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by women, as defined in section 3 of
that Act (15 U.S.C. 632), that operate in the
marijuana industry; and
(B) small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by socially and economically dis-
advantaged individuals, as defined in section
8(d)(3)(C) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)),
that operate in the marijuana industry.
SEC. 4. HIGHWAY SAFETY RESEARCH.
(a) STUDY; DEVELOPMENT.—The Adminis-
trator of the National Highway Traffic Safe-
ty Administration (referred to in this section
as the ‘‘Administrator’’) shall—
(1) carry out a study of the impact of driv-
ing under the influence of
tetrahydrocannabinol on highway safety;
and
(2) develop enhanced strategies and proce-
dures to reliably determine the impairment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.017 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2972 May 20, 2019
of a driver under the influence of
tetrahydrocannabinol.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Administrator to carry out this section
$50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023.
SEC. 5. PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services, in consultation with
the Director of the National Institutes of
Health and the Commissioner of Food and
Drugs, shall conduct research on the impacts
of marijuana, including—
(1) effects of tetrahydrocannabinol on the
human brain;
(2) efficacy of medicinal marijuana as a
treatment for specific diseases and condi-
tions; and
(3) identification of additional medical
benefits and uses of cannabis.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023, for purposes of carrying out the
activities described in subsection (a).
SEC. 6. PROTECT KIDS.
The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade
Bureau of the Department of the Treasury
shall promulgate regulations that—
(1) require restrictions on the advertising
and promotion of products related to mari-
juana, if the Secretary determines that such
regulation would be appropriate for the pro-
tection of the public health, taking into ac-
count—
(A) the risks and benefits to the population
of individuals age 18 and under, including
users and nonusers of marijuana products;
(B) the increased or decreased likelihood
that existing users of marijuana products
who are age 18 and under will stop using such
products; and
(C) the increased or decreased likelihood
that those age 18 and under who do not use
marijuana products will start using such
products; and
(2) impose restrictions on the advertising
and promotion of products related to mari-
juana consistent with and to the full extent
permitted by the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
SEC. 7. GRANTS FOR EXPUNGEMENT OF MARI-
JUANA CONVICTIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated to
the Attorney General to award grants to
States and units of local government for the
purpose of administering, expanding, or de-
veloping expungement or sealing programs
for convictions of possession of marijuana
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023 with not less than 50 percent of
those funds being directed to cover the cost
of public defenders or legal aid providers.
SEC. 8. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or an amendment
made by this Act, may be construed to mod-
ify the authority of the Federal Government
to prevent marijuana trafficking from States
that have legalized marijuana to those that
have not.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I have 4
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Monday, May 20,
2019, at 5 p.m., to conduct a hearing
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AIRLAND
The Subcommittee on Airland of the
Committee on Armed Services is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Monday, May 20, 2019, at
5 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
The Subcommittee on Readiness and
Management Support of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Monday, May 20, 2019, at 4 p.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES
The Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces of the Committee on Armed
Services is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Monday,
May 20, 2019, at 5:30 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
h
FOREIGN TRAVEL FINANCIAL REPORTS
In accordance with the appropriate provisions of law, the Secretary of the Senate herewith submits the following re-
ports for standing committees of the Senate, certain joint committees of the Congress, delegations and groups, and select
and special committees of the Senate, relating to expenses incurred in the performance of authorized foreign travel:
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Boozman:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 550.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 550.72
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 336.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 336.55
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,040.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,040.00
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 800.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 800.00
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 289.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 289.00
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 319.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 319.00
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 241.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 241.00
Rosie Heiss:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 523.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 523.64
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 336.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 336.55
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,040.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,040.00
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 800.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 800.00
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 289.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 289.00
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 287.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 287.00
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 200.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00
Senator Chris Van Hollen:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,095.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,095.08
France ....................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 839.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 839.00
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 648.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 648.89
Senator Richard Shelby:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 3,965.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,965.35
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,007.33 .................... .................... .................... 9,007.33
Senator James Lankford:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 811.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 811.25
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 716.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 716.98
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,913.63 .................... .................... .................... 11,913.63
Adam Farris:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 781.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 781.75
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 687.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 687.50
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,217.73 .................... .................... .................... 13,217.73
Paul Grove:
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 704.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 704.60
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 76.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 76.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53
Adam Yezerski:
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 704.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 704.60
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 76.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 76.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,492.63 .................... .................... .................... 7,492.63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.018 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2973
May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Sarita Vanka:
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 704.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 704.60
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 76.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 76.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53
Katherine Jackson:
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 704.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 704.60
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 76.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 76.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,366.53
Laura Friedel:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... 2,135.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,135.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13 .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13
Richard Eddings:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... .................... 2,135.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,135.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13 .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13
Paul Grove:
France ....................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 943.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 943.00
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,040.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,040.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,095.14 .................... .................... .................... 8,095.14
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,069.87 .................... 3,069.87
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,138.36 .................... 1,138.36
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,829.12 .................... 2,829.12
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 446.96 .................... 446.96
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 765.56 .................... 765.56
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,773.67 .................... 1,773.67
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 79.67 .................... 79.67
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,651.42 .................... 6,651.42
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,637.38 .................... 6,637.38
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 100.00 .................... 100.00
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,305.45 .................... 1,305.45
France ....................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 912.00 .................... 912.00
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7,136.95 .................... 7,136.95
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 10,232.00 .................... 10,232.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 523.55 .................... 523.55
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 27,808.04 .................... 109,154.31 .................... 43,601.96 .................... 180,564.31
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, May 9, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator James M. Inhofe:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 548.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 548.06
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 271.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 271.65
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 983.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 983.55
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 779.54 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 779.54
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 331.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 331.46
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 201.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 201.27
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 158.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 158.09
Lucas Holland:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 557.01 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 557.01
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 284.01 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 284.01
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 1,005.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,005.83
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 820.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 820.14
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 358.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.82
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 213.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 213.63
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 182.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 182.53
Tony Pankuch:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 544.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 544.65
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 246.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 246.62
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 970.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 970.18
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 718.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 718.49
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 384.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 384.37
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 203.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 203.64
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 209.58 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 209.58
John M. Powers:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 531.01 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 531.01
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 285.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 285.65
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 988.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 988.27
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 727.54 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 727.54
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 341.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 341.46
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 236.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 236.28
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 175.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 175.13
Elizabeth Burke:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 544.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 544.65
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 271.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 271.65
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 989.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 989.41
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 755.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 755.05
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 331.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 331.46
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 201.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 201.27
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 175.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 175.13
Senator Mike Rounds:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 229.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 229.49
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 293.69 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 293.69
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 907.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 907.64
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 738.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 738.24
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 330.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 330.80
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 192.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 192.75
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 143.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 143.20
Daniel Adelstein:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 229.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 229.49
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 281.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.31
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 943.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 943.44
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2974 May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 762.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 762.83
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 280.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 280.19
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 165.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 165.77
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 167.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 167.22
Thomas Goffus:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,807.70 .................... .................... .................... 8,807.70
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 708.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 708.72
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,807.72 .................... .................... .................... 8,807.72
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 934.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 934.14
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,443.89 .................... 4,905.46 .................... 15,349.35
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,984.27 .................... 3,984.27
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,731.81 .................... 10,150.51 .................... 11,882.32
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,564.36 .................... 1,564.36
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,679.47 .................... 2,679.47
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,207.83 .................... 6,207.83
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 142.34 .................... 142.34
Senator Jeanne Shaheen:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 272.01 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 272.01
Senator Rick Scott:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,639.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,639.36
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,928.53 .................... 1,928.53
Senator Roger F. Wicker:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,255.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,255.00
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 925.33 .................... .................... .................... 925.33
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 582.22 .................... .................... .................... 582.22
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,627.16 .................... .................... .................... 1,627.16
Robert Murray:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,255.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,255.00
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 925.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 925.33
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 582.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 582.22
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,627.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,627.16
Senator Martin Heinrich:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,095.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,095.09
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 843.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 843.33
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 615.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 615.22
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,836.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,836.16
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 950.28 .................... 950.28
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,382.25 .................... 332.25 .................... 1,714.50
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 474.12 .................... 1,520.25 .................... 1,994.37
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,906.44 .................... 3,674.68 .................... 6,581.12
Senator Joni Ernst:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,240.38 .................... .................... .................... 10,240.38
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 898.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 898.13
Nicolas Adams:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,240.38 .................... .................... .................... 10,240.38
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 931.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 931.43
Delegation Expenses:*
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... 2,597.73 .................... 7,629.53 .................... 10,227.26
Ozge Guzelsu:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,737.00 .................... .................... .................... 5,737.00
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,120.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,120.21
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 978.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 978.74
Delegation Expenses:*
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 857.85 .................... 51.29 .................... 909.14
Mariah McNamara:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 17,992.53 .................... .................... .................... 17,992.53
Cameroon .................................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 977.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 977.38
Delegation Expenses:*
Cameroon .................................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 66.31 .................... .................... .................... 66.31
Robert Winkler:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,500.73 .................... .................... .................... 12,500.73
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 164.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 164.50
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 323.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 323.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 28.33 .................... 136.41 .................... 164.74
Senator Tim Kaine:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 908.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 908.40
Ryan Colvert:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 912.61 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 912.61
Mary Naylor:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,459.03
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 894.86 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 894.86
Delegation Expenses: *
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 874.13 .................... 874.13
Adam Barker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,263.83 .................... .................... .................... 14,263.83
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 433.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 433.99
Tanzania ................................................................................................... Shilling ................................................. .................... 509.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 509.00
Mariah McNamara:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,356.00 .................... .................... .................... 14,356.00
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 433.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 433.99
Tanzania ................................................................................................... Shilling ................................................. .................... 467.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 467.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Tanzania ................................................................................................... Shilling ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 263.18 .................... 263.18
Senator Marsha Blackburn:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,249.33 .................... .................... .................... 13,249.33
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 223.64
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 144.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 144.13
Emily Manning:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,249.03 .................... .................... .................... 13,249.03
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 246.86 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 246.86
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 187.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 187.91
Thomas Goffus:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,013.80 .................... .................... .................... 18,013.80
Belarus ...................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... 574.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 574.46
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 747.11 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 747.11
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 590.85 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 590.85
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,186.59 .................... .................... .................... 9,186.59
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2975
May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Belarus ...................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... 454.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 454.52
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 739.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 739.83
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 577.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 577.66
William G.P. Monahan:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,221.03 .................... .................... .................... 15,221.03
Belarus ...................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... 403.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 403.52
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 439.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 439.97
Delegation Expenses: *
Belarus ...................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 248.92 .................... 248.92
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... 469.05 .................... 651.40 .................... 1,120.45
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 277.54 .................... 277.54
Senator Deb Fischer:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 590.00
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 559.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 559.88
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 337.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 337.18
Brianna Puccini:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 590.00
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 559.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 559.88
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 255.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 255.31
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 745.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 745.98
Delegation Expenses: *
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00 .................... 1,020.00 .................... 1,220.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 585.33 .................... 585.33
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 946.06 .................... 337.84 .................... 1,283.90
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,988.43 .................... .................... .................... 6,988.43
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 251.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 251.46
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 1,140.86 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,140.86
Ozge Guzelsu:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,161.23 .................... .................... .................... 5,161.23
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 322.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 322.00
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 1,160.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,160.33
Delegation Expenses: *
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 24.94 .................... .................... .................... 24.94
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 801.94 .................... .................... .................... 801.94
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 55,068.46 .................... 219,968.23 .................... 50,115.80 .................... 325,152.49
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JAMES INHOFE,
Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, May 8, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Mike Crapo:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 267.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 267.35
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 323.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 323.59
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 310.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.96
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 378.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 378.68
Senator John Kennedy:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 615.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 615.00
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 846.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 846.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 449.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 449.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,224.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,224.00
Gregg Richard:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 376.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 376.50
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 607.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 607.50
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 210.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 210.50
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 985.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 985.50
John Steitz:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 615.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 615.00
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 846.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 846.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 449.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 449.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,224.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,224.00
Susan Wheeler:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 457.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 457.41
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 688.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 688.41
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 291.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 291.41
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,066.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,066.41
Delegation Expenses:*
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,052.99 .................... 3,052.99
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,100.00 .................... 6,100.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,793.29 .................... 2,793.29
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,730.28 .................... 4,730.28
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 12,232.22 .................... .................... .................... 16,676.56 .................... 28,908.78
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR MIKE CRAPO,
Chairman, Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, May 8, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Mike Lee:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,176.08 .................... 1,057.73 .................... 752.31 .................... 3,986.12
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2976 May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 614.00 .................... 232.83 .................... 338.67 .................... 1,185.50
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,318.38 .................... 1,692.66 .................... 1,936.37 .................... 4,947.41
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 308.89 .................... 197.55 .................... 633.44 .................... 1,139.88
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 4,417.35 .................... 3,180.77 .................... 3,660.79 .................... 11,258.91
SENATOR ROGER WICKER,
Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
Apr. 9, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Barrasso:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 590.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 590.38
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 796.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 796.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 424.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 424.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,149.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,149.21
Delegation Expenses:*
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,526.50 .................... 1,526.50
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,033.34 .................... 2,033.34
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 439.00 .................... 439.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,576.76 .................... 1,576.76
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,959.59 .................... .................... .................... 5,575.60 .................... 8,535.19
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977
SENATOR JOHN BARRASSO,
Chairman, Committee on Environment and Public Works, May 8, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FINANCE FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Robert Casey:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,202.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.73
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 678.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 678.65
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 330.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 330.14
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,462.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,462.21
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,450.19 .................... 2,450.19
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,206.59 .................... 1,206.59
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 658.27 .................... 658.27
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 730.39 .................... 730.39
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 3,673.73 .................... .................... .................... 5,045.44 .................... 8,719.17
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on Finance, May 9, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Barrasso:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,665.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,665.18
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,181.23 .................... .................... .................... 6,181.23
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 936.49 .................... 936.49
Senator Christopher Coons:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,609.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,609.70
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 983.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 983.95
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,458.13 .................... .................... .................... 4,458.13
Thomas Mancinelli:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 903.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 903.95
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 864.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 864.64
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,955.83 .................... .................... .................... 13,955.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,301.43 .................... 2,301.43
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,201.02 .................... 2,201.02
Senator Robert Menendez:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,754.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,754.13
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,257.61 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,257.61
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,335.83 .................... .................... .................... 12,335.83
Jessica Lewis:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 983.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 983.95
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,527.33 .................... .................... .................... 8,527.33
Damian Murphy:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,147.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,147.67
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2977
May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,362.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,362.84
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,563.00 .................... .................... .................... 8,563.00
Juan Pachon:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,362.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,362.84
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,087.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,087.33
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,188.95 .................... 2,188.95
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,776.88 .................... 5,776.88
Senator Jeff Merkley:
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 299.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 299.48
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 228.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 228.90
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,546.65 .................... .................... .................... 3,546.65
Matt Traylor:
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 347.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 347.00
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... 24.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 24.06
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 277.02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 277.02
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,216.10 .................... .................... .................... 3,216.10
Delegation Expenses: *
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,516.54 .................... 2,516.54
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 524.64 .................... 524.64
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,796.09 .................... 1,796.09
Senator Jeff Merkley:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 436.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 436.25
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 386.59 .................... .................... .................... 386.59
Matt Traylor:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 426.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.25
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,078.61 .................... .................... .................... 1,078.61
Delegation Expenses: *
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,937.00 .................... 4,937.00
Senator Christopher Murphy:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,281.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,281.19
Ireland ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 414.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 414.08
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,205.43 .................... .................... .................... 10,205.43
Jessica Elledge:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,281.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,281.19
Ireland ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 424.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 424.08
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,205.43 .................... .................... .................... 10,205.43
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,783.27 .................... 3,783.27
Senator James Risch:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,642.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,642.68
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,222.88 .................... .................... .................... 16,222.88
Suzanne Wrasse:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,664.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,664.80
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,951.83 .................... .................... .................... 14,951.83
Christopher Socha:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,652.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,652.80
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 169.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 169.49
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 963.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 963.00
North Macedonia ...................................................................................... Denar .................................................... .................... 312.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 312.79
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,087.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,087.43
Hannah Thoburn:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,577.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,577.47
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 473.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 473.98
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 642.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 642.00
North Macedonia ...................................................................................... Denar .................................................... .................... 367.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 367.79
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,032.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,032.43
Lydia Westlake:
North Macedonia ...................................................................................... Denar .................................................... .................... 153.54 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 153.54
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,314.21 .................... .................... .................... 6,314.21
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,057.95 .................... 5,057.95
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 885.00 .................... 885.00
North Macedonia ...................................................................................... Denar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 331.00 .................... 331.00
Senator Marco Rubio:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 604.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 604.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,689.03 .................... .................... .................... 1,689.03
Viviana Bovo:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 604.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 604.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,154.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,154.03
Delegation Expenses: *
Colombia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,615.33 .................... 1,615.33
Senator Marco Rubio:
Haiti .......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 8.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 8.67
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,879.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,879.63
Viviana Bovo:
Haiti .......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 8.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 8.67
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,879.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,879.63
Delegation Expenses: *
Haiti .......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 168.00 .................... 168.00
Senator Tom Udall:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,095.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,095.08
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 500.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 500.22
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 958.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 958.33
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,836.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,836.16
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,206.68 .................... 1,206.68
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 571.50 .................... 571.50
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 816.06 .................... 816.06
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,133.87 .................... 3,133.87
Sarah Arkin:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... 1,040.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,040.59
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... 1,007.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,007.60
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,333.89 .................... .................... .................... 9,333.89
Delegation Expenses: *
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 331.83 .................... 331.83
Brian Cullen:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,772.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,772.50
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 36.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 36.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,529.37 .................... .................... .................... 5,529.37
Delegation Expenses: *
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Israel Shekel ................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 346.36 .................... 346.36
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,116.00 .................... 5,116.00
Margaret Dougherty:
Switzerland ............................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 1,280.58 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,280.58
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2978 May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 902.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 902.68
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,482.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,482.33
Joshua Klein:
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... 1,024.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,024.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,932.53 .................... .................... .................... 2,932.53
Delegation Expenses: *
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,670.64 .................... 2,670.64
Rolfe Michael Schiffer:
China ........................................................................................................ RMB ...................................................... .................... 741.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 741.00
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 752.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 752.18
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 495.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 495.64
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,056.74 .................... .................... .................... 4,056.74
Delegation Expenses: *
China ........................................................................................................ RMB ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 131.00 .................... 131.00
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 561.20 .................... 561.20
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 343.08 .................... 343.08
Lowell Schwartz:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,509.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,509.33
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 690.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 690.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,519.33 .................... .................... .................... 5,519.33
Megan Bartley:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,495.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,495.20
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 981.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.76
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,772.33 .................... .................... .................... 3,772.33
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 884.00 .................... 884.00
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,008.65 .................... 1,008.65
Brandon Yoder:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 842.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.92
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,920.93 .................... .................... .................... 1,920.93
Charlotte Oldham Moore:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,105,02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,105.02
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,885.93 .................... .................... .................... 1,885.93
Juan Pachon:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,074.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,074.87
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,885.93 .................... .................... .................... 1,885.93
Delegation Expenses: *
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,407.00 .................... 6,407.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 51,324.80 .................... 175,867.04 .................... 78,958.32 .................... 306,150.16
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations, May 8, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Ron Johnson:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,749.36 .................... .................... .................... 14,749.36
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,136.78 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,136.78
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 190.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 190.46
Lydia Westlake:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,314.22 .................... .................... .................... 6,314.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 679.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 679.76
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 191.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 191.06
Delegation Expenses:*
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 898.59 .................... 898.59
Senator Thomas R. Carper:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,573.40 .................... .................... .................... 4,573.40
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 557.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 557.17
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 252.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 252.00
Abigail Shenkle:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,536.10 .................... .................... .................... 3,536.10
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 557.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 557.71
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 412.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 412.90
Delegation Expenses:*
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,033.08 .................... 5,033.08
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,049.28 .................... 1,049.28
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,585.58 .................... 6,585.58
Senator Michael B. Enzi:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 508.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 508.97
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 265.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 265.53
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 933.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 933.46
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 431.58 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 431.58
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 294.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 294.80
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 192.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 192.75
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 219.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 219.89
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 490.55 .................... 490.55
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 569.18 .................... 569.18
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,697.47 .................... 1,697.47
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 223.48 .................... 223.48
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 382.78 .................... 382.78
Algeria ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 886.83 .................... 886.83
Spain ......................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 39.83 .................... 39.83
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 6,824.82 .................... 29,173.08 .................... 17,856.65 .................... 53,854.55
*Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RON JOHNSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs,
May 8, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2979
May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1, 2019 TO MAR. 31, 2019.
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 812.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 812.95
Craig Abele:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 812.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 812.95
Matt Rumkunas:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 812.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 812.95
Delegation Expenses:*
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,091.13 .................... 2,091.13
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,716.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,716.12
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,716.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,716.12
Alice James:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,377.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,377.52
Matt Rimkunas:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,377.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,377.52
Christopher Mewett:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,016.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,016.35
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7,840.32 .................... 7,840.32
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 1,140.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,140.00
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 993.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 993.00
Delegation Expenses:*
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7,136.95 .................... 7,136.95
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 912.00 .................... 912.00
Kristina Sesek:
Panama ..................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 336.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 336.62
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 791.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 791.10
United States ............................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 12,903.20 .................... 2,909.63 .................... 17,980.40 .................... 33,793.23
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, May 7, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Brian Walsh ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 587.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 587.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,362.13 .................... .................... .................... 2,362.13
Delegation Expenses * ....................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 807.66 .................... 807.66
Brian Walsh ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 299.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 299.00
............................................................... .................... 681.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 681.30
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,288.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,288.73
Kathleen Reilly ................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 299.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 299.00
............................................................... .................... 706.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 706.30
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,288.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,288.73
Delegation Expenses * ....................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,998.38 .................... 1,998.38
Senator Roy Blunt ............................................................................................. ............................................................... .................... 2,385.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,385.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13 .................... .................... .................... 14,164.13
Dan Burgess ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,323.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,323.47
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,164.33 .................... .................... .................... 14,164.33
Delegation Expenses * ....................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 25,187.40 .................... 25,187.40
Jacob Barton ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 426.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.14
............................................................... .................... 530.93 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 530.93
............................................................... .................... 620.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 620.55
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 25,358.85 .................... .................... .................... 25,358.85
Jim Catella ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 426.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.13
............................................................... .................... 530.93 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 530.93
............................................................... .................... 440.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 440.20
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 25,258.25 .................... .................... .................... 25,258.25
Russell Willig ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 426.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.13
............................................................... .................... 530.93 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 530.93
............................................................... .................... 641.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 641.88
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,278.43 .................... .................... .................... 11,278.43
Delegation Expenses * ....................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 50.60 .................... 50.60
Chris Joyner ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 576.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 576.73
............................................................... .................... 1,573.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,573.35
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23 .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23
Mike Casey ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 576.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 576.73
............................................................... .................... 1,160.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,160.48
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23 .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23
Delegation Expenses * ....................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 63.58 .................... 63.58
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 15,742.18 .................... 125,134.04 .................... 28,107.62 .................... 168,983.84
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RICHARD BURR,
Chairman, Select Committee on Intelligence, May 10, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Tom Udall:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,095.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,095.08
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2980 May 20, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 842.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 648.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 648.89
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Kyle Parker:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 573.64
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 842.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 587.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 587.12
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Mark Toner:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 573.64
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 842.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 587.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 587.12
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Jordan Warlick:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.64 .................... 5,105.93 .................... .................... .................... 5,679.57
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 842.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 587.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 587.12
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Rachel Bauman:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 573.64
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 843.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 843.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 587.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 587.12
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,834.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,834.38
Alex Tiersky:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,016.35 .................... 12,419.23 .................... .................... .................... 13,435.58
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 842.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 842.00
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 3,054.78 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,054.78
Everett Price:
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,215.04 .................... 10,371.93 .................... .................... .................... 11,586.97
Robert Hand:
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 3,492.98 .................... 1,494.93 .................... .................... .................... 4,987.91
Paul Massaro:
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 3,492.98 .................... 10,590.93 .................... .................... .................... 14,083.91
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 9,027.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 9,027.67
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 6,858.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,858.00
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 10,861.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 10,861.30
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 23,236.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 23,236.38
Janice Helwig:
Austria ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 21,266.00 .................... 13,243.01 .................... .................... .................... 34,509.01
Total: .................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 104,133.39 .................... 53,225.96 .................... .................... .................... 157,359.35
* Delegation expenses include payments and reimbursements to the Department of State under authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Section 22 of P.L. 95–384, and S. Res. 179 agreed to May 25,
1977.
SENATOR ROGER WICKER,
Chairman, Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe,
May 10, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), MAJORITY LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Robert Karem:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23 .................... .................... .................... 12,985.23
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 578.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 578.14
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,373.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,373.35
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,951.49 .................... 12,985.23 .................... .................... .................... 14,936.72
SENATOR MITCH McCONNELL,
Majority Leader, May 9, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), DEMOCRATIC LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Michael Kuiken:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,617.23 .................... .................... .................... 1,617.23
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,461.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,461.35
Lane Bodian:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,115.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,115.03
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... 605.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,627.50 .................... 2,232.50
Chris Homan:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,115.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,115.03
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... 660.61 .................... .................... .................... 1,627.50 .................... 2,288.11
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,726.96 .................... 5,847.29 .................... 3,255.00 .................... 11,829.25
SENATOR CHARLES SCHUMER,
Democratic Leader, May 8, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2981
May 20, 2019
PROTECTING AMERICA’S FIRST
RESPONDERS ACT
On Thursday, May 16, 2019, the Sen-
ate passed S. 1208, as follows:
S. 1208
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
America’s First Responders Act’’.
SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF DEATH AND DISABILITY
BENEFITS UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFE-
TY OFFICERS’ DEATH BENEFITS
PROGRAM.
Section 1201 of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10281) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking the period
at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, un-
less the claim under this subsection has been
pending for more than 1 year, in which case
the amount payable shall be the amount
that would be payable if the catastrophic in-
jury occurred on the date on which the Bu-
reau makes a final determination that the
public safety officer is entitled to a benefit
payment under this subsection.’’;
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘$3,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$6,000, adjusted in accordance
with subsection (h),’’;
(3) in subsection (h), by inserting ‘‘and the
level of the interim benefit payable imme-
diately before such October 1 under sub-
section (c)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’;
(4) by striking subsection (i) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(i) The amount payable under subsection
(a), with respect to the death of a public
safety officer, shall be the greater of—
‘‘(1) the amount payable under that sub-
section as of the date of death of the public
safety officer; or
‘‘(2) the amount that would be payable
under that subsection if the death of the
public safety officer occurred on the date on
which the Bureau makes a final determina-
tion that the public safety officer is entitled
to a benefit payment under that sub-
section.’’; and
(5) in subsection (m), by inserting ‘‘, (b),’’
after ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS’ DEATH
BENEFITS PROGRAM.
Section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10284) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) ‘catastrophic injury’ means an injury,
the direct and proximate consequences of
which—
‘‘(A) permanently prevent an individual
from performing any gainful work; or
‘‘(B) cause an individual to become—
‘‘(i) paraplegic;
‘‘(ii) quadriplegic; or
‘‘(iii) blind;’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘at the
time of the public safety officer’s fatal or
catastrophic injury’’ and inserting ‘‘as of the
date of the public safety officer’s death from
a fatal injury or the date of determination of
the public safety officer’s disability from a
catastrophic injury’’;
(3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘, includ-
ing an individual who, in the capacity of the
individual as such a member, engages in
scene security or traffic management as the
primary or only duty of the individual dur-
ing emergency response’’ before the semi-
colon;
(4) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through
(9) as paragraphs (6) through (10), respec-
tively; and
(5) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(5) ‘gainful work’—
‘‘(A) means any activity usually performed
for pay or profit, regardless of whether a
profit is realized; and
‘‘(B) does not include work performed in a
situation in which, after an individual sus-
tains an injury—
‘‘(i) the individual—
‘‘(I) re-enters the workforce; and
‘‘(II) leaves the workforce after less than 90
days because of the inability of the indi-
vidual to overcome the injury;
‘‘(ii) because of the injury—
‘‘(I) the individual is permitted, in car-
rying out work, to—
‘‘(aa) perform at a lower standard of pro-
ductivity or efficiency than other similarly
situated employees;
‘‘(bb) work irregular hours; or
‘‘(cc) take frequent rest periods; or
‘‘(II) the individual is only able to work
within a framework of specially arranged
circumstances, such as a circumstance in
which 1 or more other individuals are re-
quired to assist the individual in preparing
for work or traveling to and from work;
‘‘(iii)(I) the individual practices a hobby
usually performed for pay or profit, regard-
less of whether a profit is realized; and
‘‘(II) the primary intent of the individual
in practicing the hobby described in sub-
clause (I)—
‘‘(aa) is physical, mental, or emotional re-
habilitation of the individual from the in-
jury; and
‘‘(bb) is not realization of profit; or
‘‘(iv) the individual is given the oppor-
tunity to work—
‘‘(I) despite the injury of the individual;
and
‘‘(II) on the basis of—
‘‘(aa) a family relationship of the indi-
vidual;
‘‘(bb) a past association of the individual
with the employer giving the individual the
opportunity to work; or
‘‘(cc) any other altruistic reason;’’.
SEC. 4. RETROACTIVE APPLICABILITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section—
(1) the term ‘‘covered beneficiary’’ means
an individual who—
(A) is, or was, a child or spouse of a cov-
ered individual described in paragraph (3)(B);
and
(B) would have been eligible for edu-
cational assistance under subpart 2 of part L
of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10301 et
seq.) if the amendments made by section 3 of
this Act had been in effect on the date on
which the determination described in para-
graph (3)(B)(i) of this subsection was made;
(2) the term ‘‘covered claimant’’ means an
individual who is a claimant on the estate of
a deceased covered individual—
(A) described in paragraph (3)(B); and
(B) who died on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act;
(3) the term ‘‘covered individual’’ means—
(A) a beneficiary of a benefit under the
Public Safety Officers’ Death Benefit Pro-
gram that was paid—
(i) with respect to a death or disability of
a public safety officer sustained as the direct
or proximate result of a personal injury sus-
tained in the line of duty; and
(ii) during the covered period; or
(B) a public safety officer who—
(i) was determined during the covered pe-
riod to be ineligible for a benefit payment
under section 1201(b) of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10281(b)); and
(ii) would have been eligible for a benefit
payment under subpart L of that title due to
the disability of the public safety officer if
the amendments made by section 3 had been
in effect on the date on which the determina-
tion described in clause (i) was made;
(4) the term ‘‘covered period’’ means the
period—
(A) beginning on the date of enactment of
title XIII of the Crime Control Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647; 104 Stat. 4834); and
(B) ending on the day before the date of en-
actment of the Protecting America’s First
Responders Act;
(5) the term ‘‘public safety officer’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 1204 of
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10284); and
(6) the term ‘‘Public Safety Officers’ Death
Benefit Program’’ means the program estab-
lished under part L of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10281 et seq.).
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The amendments made
by sections 2 and 3 shall apply to a death or
disability of a public safety officer sustained
as the direct or proximate result of a per-
sonal injury sustained in the line of duty—
(1) subject to subsection (c), during the
covered period; or
(2) on or after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(c) PAYMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
upon application of a covered individual,
covered beneficiary, or covered claimant, the
Bureau of Justice Assistance shall make a
lump sum payment to the covered indi-
vidual, covered beneficiary, or covered
claimant in the amount equal to the dif-
ference, if any, between—
(A) in the case of a covered individual—
(i) the amount of the total benefit payment
the covered individual would have received
under the Public Safety Officers’ Death Ben-
efit Program as of the date of the lump sum
payment, if the amendments made by sec-
tions 2 and 3 had been in effect on the date
on which the covered individual—
(I) received the final benefit payment
under the Public Safety Officers’ Death Ben-
efit Program; or
(II) was determined to be ineligible for a
benefit payment under section 1201(b) of title
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10281(b)); and
(ii) the amount of the total benefit pay-
ment the covered individual received under
the Public Safety Officers’ Death Benefit
Program before the date of enactment of this
Act;
(B) in the case of a covered beneficiary, the
amount of the total benefit payment the cov-
ered beneficiary would have received under
subpart 2 of part L of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.) if the amendments
made by section 3 of this Act had been in ef-
fect on the date on which the determination
described in subsection (a)(3)(B)(i) of this
section was made; and
(C) in the case of a covered claimant, the
amount of the total benefit payment the cov-
ered individual on whose estate the covered
claimant is a claimant would have received
under the Public Safety Officers’ Death Ben-
efit Program as of the date of the lump sum
payment, if the amendments made by sec-
tions 2 and 3 had been in effect on the date
on which the determination described in sub-
section (a)(3)(B)(i) of this section was made.
(2) APPLICATION.—A covered individual,
covered beneficiary, or covered claimant de-
siring a lump sum payment under paragraph
(1) shall apply to the Bureau of Justice As-
sistance for such lump sum payment not
later than 3 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.025 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2982 May 20, 2019
SEC. 5. DUE DILIGENCE IN PAYING BENEFIT
CLAIMS UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY
OFFICERS’ DEATH BENEFITS PRO-
GRAM.
Section 1206(b) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10288(b)) is amended by striking
‘‘the Bureau may not’’ and all that follows
and inserting the following: ‘‘the Bureau—
‘‘(1) shall use all available investigative
tools, including subpoenas, to—
‘‘(A) expedite the processing of the benefit
claim; and
‘‘(B) obtain necessary information or docu-
mentation from third parties, including pub-
lic agencies; and
‘‘(2) may not abandon the benefit claim un-
less the Bureau has used the investigative
tools available to the Bureau to obtain the
necessary information or documentation, in-
cluding subpoenas.’’.
SEC. 6. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO DEPEND-
ENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS
KILLED OR DISABLED IN THE LINE
OF DUTY.
Section 1216(b) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10306(b)) is amended, in the first
sentence, by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting
‘‘shall’’.
SEC. 7. COLLECTION OF DATA ON KILLED OR DIS-
ABLED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFI-
CERS.
Section 534(a) of title 28, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) operate a central clearinghouse for
statistics on law enforcement officers under
the Uniform Crime Reporting Program, in-
cluding data on law enforcement officers
who, while performing their duties, were—
‘‘(A) feloniously killed;
‘‘(B) accidentally killed;
‘‘(C) feloniously assaulted; or
‘‘(D) severely and permanently disabled.’’.
SEC. 8. GAO REPORT ON MEDICAL COSTS.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘disabled officer’’ means a public safety offi-
cer to whom a benefit is payable under sub-
part 1 of part L of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10281 et seq.) based on the perma-
nent and total disability of the officer, as de-
scribed in section 1201(b) of that subpart (34
U.S.C. 10281(b)).
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of
the Senate and the Committee on the Judici-
ary of the House of Representatives a report
that estimates the average medical costs in-
curred by a disabled officer over the lifetime
of the officer after sustaining the injury that
caused the disability.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 312 AND H.R. 2578
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are two bills at the
desk due for a second reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the second time en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for other
purposes.
A bill (H.R. 2578) to reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I would object to
further proceeding en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar.
f
ALASKA REMOTE GENERATOR RE-
LIABILITY AND PROTECTION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 19, S. 163.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title.
The senior legislative clerk read as
follows:
A bill (S. 163) to prevent catastrophic fail-
ure or shutdown of remote diesel power en-
gines due to emission control devices, and
for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading, was read the third
time, and passed as follows:
S. 163
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Alaska Re-
mote Generator Reliability and Protection
Act’’.
SEC. 2. REVISION OF REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall re-
vise section 60.4216(c) of title 40, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this Act), by striking ‘‘that
was not certified’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘compared to engine-out emissions’’
and inserting ‘‘must have that engine cer-
tified as meeting at least Tier 3 PM stand-
ards’’.
(b) EMISSIONS AND ENERGY RELIABILITY
STUDY.—Not later than 1 year after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall submit to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
the House of Representatives a report assess-
ing options for the Federal Government to
assist remote areas in the State of Alaska in
meeting the energy needs of those areas in
an affordable and reliable manner using—
(1) existing emissions control technology;
or
(2) other technology that achieves emis-
sions reductions similar to the technology
described in paragraph (1).
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MAY 21,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m. Tuesday, May 21;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Collins nomination. Finally, I ask
that the Senate recess from 12:30 p.m.
until 2:15 p.m. to allow for the weekly
conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. If there is no fur-
ther business to come before the Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent that it
stand adjourned under the previous
order following the remarks of Senator
WHITEHOUSE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
am here today for the 243rd time to call
on this Chamber to wake up to the re-
ality of climate change. I thank my
colleague Senator CORNYN for his re-
cent statement acknowledging that the
days of ignoring this are over. Now it is
time to do something with keeping
global warming below the 1.5 or 2 de-
grees Centigrade threshold target.
I speak regularly about the fossil fuel
industry’s relentless grip on Congress
and how that grip prevents action on
climate. Don’t get me wrong—they are
still at it, but they are not the only
thing slowing progress. Another im-
pediment is the wide swathes of our
news media that cover the issue tor-
pidly or not at all or as actual propa-
gators of falsehood.
Look at the big climate stories the
media ought to be covering just from
2018. The year 2018 brought two land-
mark climate science reports. One was
the Intergovernmental Panel on Cli-
mate Change report on what warming
of 1.5 degrees Celsius above
preindustrial levels will do. The other
was the Trump administration’s own
National Climate Assessment. These
two studies delivered the starkest
warnings on climate change ever—that
the damage from climate change is al-
ready occurring, that world economies
are now at risk, and that we are almost
out of time to prevent the worst con-
sequences.
Even the fossil fuel industry and its
stooges in the Trump administration
didn’t contest the science behind these
reports. They know their science-de-
nial campaign is phony. They know the
real science is irrefutable. So it is bet-
ter to hide from it than fight it, I
guess.
The year 2018 also brought dev-
astating natural disasters linked to cli-
mate change. Out West, wildfires in
California broke records. Hurricanes
supercharged by warming oceans
slammed the east coast, gulf coast, and
Caribbean. Floods, droughts, and rising
seas were reported across the United
States and around the globe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY6.027 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2983
May 20, 2019
Mr. President, 2018 also brought dire
warnings of economic dangers from cli-
mate change. At the U.N. climate sum-
mit in December, a group of 415 global
investors—not environmentalists; in-
vestors—managing $32 trillion of in-
vestments warned that unless carbon
emissions are urgently cut, the world
faces a financial crash worse than the
2008 economic meltdown. The group
called for the end of fossil fuel sub-
sidies and the introduction of substan-
tial prices on carbon to rebalance the
market failure.
The Union of Concerned Scientists
separately found that over 300,000
coastal homes, with a collective mar-
ket value of over $130 billion, are at
risk of chronic flooding by 2045. UCS
showed that by the end of the century,
2.4 million homes, worth more than $1
trillion, could be at risk. Decisions we
make now will determine whether
those risks come to pass. By the way,
First Street Foundation found that
coastal property values are already be-
ginning to slide.
Unprecedented catastrophes, forceful
warnings from scientists and financial
experts—surely the viewers of Amer-
ica’s top television networks should be
focused on these things—or not. Ac-
cording to the media watchdog Media
Matters, our major television net-
works—ABC, CBS, NBC, and FOX—
aired 45 percent less climate change
coverage on their marquee news pro-
grams in 2018 than in 2017. Climate cov-
erage on network nightly news and
Sunday morning political shows fell to
just 142 minutes in all of 2018, down
from an already lame 260 minutes in
2017. That is less than 1 minute a day of
coverage from all four major networks
combined.
Kudos to NBC, which actually upped
its coverage by about one-quarter from
the year before. Without NBC, the
numbers look even worse. Media Mat-
ters found CBS’s climate coverage
down 56 percent from 2017 to 2018.
‘‘FOX News Sunday’’ is down 75 per-
cent, and ABC is down a whopping 81
percent from a pretty low performance
to begin with.
I have noticed this trend, so I have
begun keeping an eye on the Sunday
shows’ coverage this year. Each month,
I look at how many substantive seg-
ments on climate change each show
runs. It is not good. In April, for in-
stance, there were only two sub-
stantive segments on climate change
across all five shows. They have basi-
cally become Sunday morning political
gossip columns.
If you move from quantity to qual-
ity, well, with TV still the top way
Americans get their news, the quality
of news coverage really matters. How
are television news shows doing in that
department? Too often, also badly.
Many of these shows still give airtime
to clownish climate deniers just to cre-
ate a pro and con.
The Weather Channel tracked reac-
tion on television shows to the Trump
administration’s National Climate As-
sessment this past fall and found
airtime still given to debunked climate
nonsense—for instance, the American
Enterprise Institute’s Danielle Pletka’s
ridiculous falsehoods about recent cold
weather; conservative political com-
mentators Rick Santorum and Stephen
Moore’s argument that climate sci-
entists cooked up the assessment to en-
rich themselves; and a Member of
Congress’s argument that ‘‘our climate
always changes, and we see those ebb
and flows through time,’’ as if million-
year climate changes are in any way
comparable to the rapid punch in the
face we are giving to our climate with
carbon emissions right now, manmade.
Allowing this falsehood on the air
tilts Americans’ perception of climate
change. ‘‘Placing a climate contrarian
behind a scientist is effectively shrink-
ing the 97 percent consensus on the
issue to 50 percent—two people arguing
opposite sides,’’ the Weather Channel
pointed out.
In the Columbia Journalism Review
last month, author and journalist
Mark Hertsgaard and editor and pub-
lisher Kyle Pope describe this trou-
bling trend as follows:
Climate deniers are still given respectful
treatment by US news outlets across the ide-
ological spectrum. [They] in fact deserve to
have their social licenses revoked, just as to-
bacco companies did. More than anyone else,
it is climate deniers who got us into this
mess; they don’t get to decide what we do
with it now.
Again, on this front, NBC has been
the best. In December, NBC’s ‘‘Meet
the Press’’ devoted an entire show to
climate coverage, delving into the
science and discussing climate solu-
tions in detail. It began with a clear
message from host Chuck Todd. He
said:
We’re not going to debate climate change,
the existence of it. The Earth is getting hot-
ter. And human activity is a major cause, pe-
riod. We’re not going to give time to climate
deniers. The science is settled, even if polit-
ical opinion is not.
That is the right place to start the
discussion in the media on climate
change. Facts are facts. Falsehood is
falsehood and does not deserve equal
time. I hope other networks take note.
If they want to cover climate denial,
cover it the way it should be covered:
investigatively, as a fraudulent enter-
prise with big secret money behind it.
Trust me, there is a lot to investigate.
Don’t legitimize lies.
Newspapers and online news are a
mixed bag. As a group, our top national
papers are improving their coverage of
climate change. According to the Uni-
versity of Colorado Boulder’s Inter-
national Collective on Environment,
Culture, & Politics, the five major na-
tional newspapers—the Washington
Post, the New York Times, the Wall
Street Journal, USA Today, and the
Los Angeles Times—published 282 arti-
cles about climate change in January
2009. A decade later, January of this
year, those papers published 469—282,
up to 469. That is a good sign. So, too,
generally is the quality of coverage.
Big publications like the New York
Times and Washington Post and small-
er, independent, and web-based publica-
tions like InsideClimate News, Years of
Living Dangerously, and Grist have
brought us into the midst of climate
crisis with brilliant reporting and sto-
rytelling. The Guardian, from overseas,
may be the best of all. The Guardian
just decided, as editorial policy, to use
‘‘climate emergency crisis or break-
down’’ instead of ‘‘climate change,’’
‘‘global heating’’ instead of ‘‘global
warming,’’ and ‘‘climate science de-
nier’’ instead of ‘‘climate skeptic.’’
These outlets all offer readers capti-
vating photos, videos, and graphics
that illustrate exactly how the climate
is changing and what that will mean.
In Rhode Island, our Providence
Journal has done exceptional reporting
on carbon pollution’s effects on our cli-
mate and oceans. This year alone, the
Journal has published indepth, front-
page articles on how Rhode Island’s
real estate market is already experi-
encing the effects of climate change,
on scientists’ warnings of massive
flooding risk to coastal towns, and on
the risks facing Providence’s hurricane
barrier as sea levels rise and storm
surges loom in the decades to come.
Here is an example of that, like that
from our home State paper.
Mr. President, other Rhode Island pa-
pers, like the Newport Daily News, the
Westerly Sun, and ecoRI, cover climate
change in their communities with
vigor and skill. They supply the news
Rhode Islanders need to understand
and prepare for the effects of climate
change.
Elsewhere, the record is not so good.
Take USA Today, a paper with a cir-
culation to 1.8 million Americans and a
broad online readership. According to
the University of Colorado, the paper
ran 25 articles on climate change in
January 2009. It ran only 14 this Janu-
ary.
On its editorial page, however, USA
Today’s editorial board wrote one of
the strongest climate editorials so far
this year, making the case for mean-
ingful action on climate change. They
cited real science and dismissed Repub-
lican leaders’ cynical campaign against
the Green New Deal. The editorial con-
cluded: ‘‘The critics owe this and fu-
ture generations more than scorn; they
have an obligation to put better ideas
and solutions on the table.
Bravo and well said to that.
The reverse is the Wall Street Jour-
nal, with pretty good news coverage. It
is a respectable news-gathering news-
paper—in fact, a first-order one. But its
opinion page emits toxic climate
waste. For decades, the Wall Street
Journal’s editorial page has been a
haven for outlandish science denial,
but they truly outdo themselves when
it comes to climate denial. Take a
piece that the Journal published just
last year titled, ‘‘The Sea Is Rising,
but Not Because of Climate Change.’’
Riddled with scientific errors, it ig-
nores all of the legitimate science on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.022 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2984 May 20, 2019
climate change. The author whom they
published, a notorious climate denier,
has for years been affiliated with or
funded by the Heritage Foundation, the
Heartland Institute, the Cato Insti-
tute—a rogues’ gallery of industry-
funded climate denial front groups.
The sum of this is an American
media too often asleep at the switch
when warnings need to be made.
The Washington Post media col-
umnist and former public editor of the
New York Times, Margaret Sullivan,
wrote this past fall:
Just as the world, especially the United
States, needs radical change to mitigate the
coming crisis, so too for the news media. . . .
This subject must be kept front and center,
with the pressure on and the stakes made
abundantly clear at every turn. . . . Just as
the smartest minds in earth science have
issued their warning, the best minds in
media should be giving sustained attention
to how to tell this most important story in
a way that will create change.
There is some exceptional climate
change coverage reaching readers
today. Indeed, American voters in-
creasingly name climate change as a
big priority for them at the ballot box,
but the pace of climate disruption de-
mands urgency. Columbia Journalism
Review’s Hertsgaard and Pope write:
‘‘If American journalism doesn’t get
the climate story right—and soon—no
other story will matter.’’
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow
morning.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:54 p.m.
adjourned until Tuesday, May 21, 2019,
at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G20MY6.023 S20MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E627
May 20, 2019
HONORING NOAH WEBSTER
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
HON. ANDY BIGGS
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the accomplishments of five students
from the Noah Webster Charter School in
Mesa, Arizona. Madisin Bauer, Brody Kelly,
Lucus Martin, Kelly Conboy, and Logan Carter
were elected by their peers to lead the Wild-
cat’s student government in the 2019–2020
school year. To qualify for the election, each
student was recognized by their teachers for
outstanding leadership skills and exceptional
moral character.
Over the next year, I have no doubt that
these young leaders will excel in service to
their school and one another. I look forward to
hearing about their experiences as they plan
town hall-style meetings, run pep assemblies,
and organize community projects.
These students’ willingness to serve gives
me hope for our future. Our country needs
people of all ages with hearts of servants to
represent and lead Americans who need a
voice. I am honored to have such talent and
leadership in my district.
f
RECOGNIZING PETER VARGAS
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mr. Peter Vargas for his twenty
years of dedicated service to the City of Allen,
Texas.
Mr. Vargas earned a Bachelor of Arts De-
gree in History and Education from the Univer-
sity of North Colorado in 1972, and a master’s
degree in Public Administration from the Uni-
versity of Colorado, Denver, in 1978. Fol-
lowing his graduation, Paul began his career
in municipal management in the City of Ar-
vada where he swiftly rose from serving as an
Administrative Assistant to Assistant to the
City Manager. He would later hold the position
of Assistant City Manager for the City of En-
glewood, Colorado, and eventually be selected
as the City Manager in Laredo, Texas.
Mr. Vargas would later serve as the Execu-
tive Director of the City of Dallas’ Trinity River
Corridor Project, prior to joining the City of
Allen in 1999 as City Manager. As Allen’s
long-time City Manager, Peter has worked tire-
lessly to improve the City’s financial stability,
raise the bond rating, and improve and in-
crease the City’s capital infrastructure pro-
gram. Such efforts to create a high-quality,
sustainable community have led to Allen’s na-
tional recognition as a ‘‘Community of the
Year’’ and ‘‘20 Best Places to Live in Amer-
ica.’’ Peter is also known for championing the
development of regional economic develop-
ment programs with area governments in our
fast-growing region.
Peter is often lauded throughout North
Texas for his efforts to build sustaining rela-
tionships with partners in both the public and
private sectors. His unique ability to work in
tandem with Allen’s citizens and City employ-
ees to ensure that expectations are exceeded
has earned him the respect of his colleagues
and all those in the community.
While the list of professional associations
and accolades for Mr. Peter Vargas is impres-
sive, perhaps his proudest achievement is
serving as husband to Cheryl Dyer Vargas,
and the father to his daughter, Jenna.
The Allen community and all those who
have had the honor of working with Peter over
the years have been witness to the tremen-
dous growth and success of the region due in
part to his vision. Today, I ask my colleagues
in the United States House of Representatives
to join me in recognizing Peter for his dedi-
cated and tireless efforts to make Allen a
great place to live, work, and raise a family.
We wish Peter well as he begins this next
chapter in his life.
f
ESCAPE ACT OF 2019
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
reintroduce the ‘‘Enhancing the Strength and
Capacity of America’s Primary Evacuation
routes (ESCAPE) Act,’’ with Congressman
WILLIAM R. KEATING (D–MA). I want to thank
Congressman KEATING for his leadership as
the sponsor last Congress and partnering with
me this year.
This bicameral bill would establish a new
U.S. Department of Transportation grant pro-
gram for roadway, bridges, and other transpor-
tation projects that strengthen and protect
routes essential for mass evacuations caused
by natural disasters and other emergency
events. With increasingly frequent and severe
disasters across the country due to climate
change, Congress must provide dedicated
funding for resilient evacuation routes.
In 2017, nearly 200,000 Californians were
forced to evacuate when they learned that
Oroville Dam, the tallest dam in the nation,
was on the verge of failing. Thousands of driv-
ers funneled onto a narrow two-lane highway,
spending hours in bumper-to-bumper traffic to
reach safety along the Sacramento Valley’s
major north-to-south evacuation route.
Last year, Paradise, California, just north of
my district was reduced to rubble by the dev-
astating Camp Fire. As the flames engulfed
the single-lane road that served as the city’s
primary evacuation route, residents were
forced to abandon their vehicles and escape
on foot—some to their death. The lack of ade-
quate evacuation routes in our nation—par-
ticularly for small rural communities—is cost-
ing lives every year. Our bicameral legislation
would provide dedicated federal funding for
evacuation routes that save lives in times of
crisis.
I hope that any infrastructure package
passed this Congress will include our ‘‘ES-
CAPE Act.’’ I plan on making this a major pri-
ority in my work as a senior member of the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to join
Congressman KEATING and me in cospon-
soring this critical legislation.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CLAY HIGGINS
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Madam Speak-
er, during these votes, I was with the Presi-
dent in Louisiana. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 203; YEA on
Roll Call No. 204; NAY on Roll Call No. 205;
NAY on Roll Call No. 206; NAY on Roll Call
No. 207; NAY on Roll Call No. 208; and YEA
on Roll Call No. 209.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE HON-
ORARY CONSULATE OF LATVIA
IN MASSACHUSETTS
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the official opening of the Hon-
orary Consulate of Latvia in Norwell, Massa-
chusetts.
The United States and the Republic of Lat-
via share an important bilateral relationship
that has only grown stronger with time. The
ties that our two nations have fostered over
the years remain meaningful, whether it be
through security assistance and cooperation,
trade agreements, or our shared membership
in critical international organizations such as
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, United
Nations, and World Trade Organization.
In today’s ever-changing international cli-
mate, it is crucial to applaud and encourage
new opportunities for cooperation, dialogue,
and friendship with treasured allies. The open-
ing of this new Honorary Consulate is such an
opportunity, and I am thrilled that my district
can have a place in this progress. I would like
to extend particular commendation to Uldis K.
Sipols, Honorary Consul of the Republic of
Latvia in Massachusetts. As a longtime resi-
dent of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and a seasoned professional in the business
world, I know that he will bring much needed
enthusiasm and experience to his new diplo-
matic role, and I wish him the best.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20MY8.001 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E628 May 20, 2019
Madam Speaker, it brings me great pleas-
ure to recognize the opening of this important
consular office and to call attention yet again
to the invaluable relationship between the
United States and the Republic of Latvia.
f
MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE
RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following Congressional Budget
Office communication regarding H.R. 312.
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, May 16, 2019.
Hon. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The Congressional
Budget Office has prepared the enclosed cost
estimate for H.R. 312, the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirma-
tion Act.
If you wish further details on this esti-
mate, we will be pleased to provide them.
The CBO staff contact is Jon Sperl.
Sincerely,
MARK P. HADLEY,
(For Keith Hall, Director).
Enclosure.
H.R. 312, MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE RES-
ERVATION REAFFIRMATION ACT—MAY 15,
2019
[By fiscal year, millions of dollars]
2019
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
Direct Spending (Outlays) .................... 0 0 0
Revenues .............................................. 0 0 0
Deficit Effect ........................................ 0 0 0
Spending Subject to Appropriation
(Outlays) .......................................... 0 * n.e.
Pay-as-you-go procedures apply? No
Increases on-budget deficits in any of the
four consecutive 10-year periods beginning in
2030? No
Mandate Effects
Contains intergovernmental mandate? Yes,
Under Threshold
Contains private-sector mandate? Yes,
Under Threshold
n.e. = not estimated; * = between zero and
$500,000.
H.R. 312 would ratify and reaffirm the sta-
tus of land taken into trust in 2015 by the
Department of the Interior (DOI) for the ben-
efit of the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe in
Massachusetts. The act also would prohibit
any lawsuits, including pending lawsuits, re-
lated to that land.
DOI is currently holding the land in trust
pending ongoing legal review of the acquisi-
tion. Using information from DOI, CBO esti-
mates that implementing the act would have
no significant effect on the costs of man-
aging the land.
By prohibiting pending and future law-
suits, H.R. 312 would end rights of action re-
lated to the land held in trust for the Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe of Massachusetts that
are available to public and private entities
under current law. That prohibition imposes
both an intergovernmental and private-sec-
tor mandate as defined in the Unfunded Man-
dates Reform Act (UMRA). The cost of the
mandates would be the forgone value of com-
pensation and settlements associated with
such legal actions if they would have been
successful under current law. The Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, the City of Taun-
ton, and the Town of Mashpee have each en-
tered into agreements with the tribe related
to the use of the land. In light of those
agreements as well as the land’s reported
value, CBO expects that under current law it
is unlikely that any entity would bring an
action resulting in compensation that would
exceed the annual thresholds established in
UMRA. In 2019 those thresholds totaled $82
million for intergovernmental mandates and
$164 million for private-sector mandates, ad-
justed annually for inflation.
The CBO staff contacts for this estimate
are Jon Sperl (for federal costs) and Rachel
Austin (for mandates). The estimate was re-
viewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy As-
sistant Director for Budget Analysis.
f
REMEMBERING ELLEN VAN
EDWARDS
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in remembering the life of Ellen Odellas
Van Edwards, a native Washingtonian and my
former classmate at Dunbar High School.
On May 11, 2019, Ellen Odellas Van
Edwards passed away in the arms of her
daughter L. Robin V. Smith, while listening to
praise and worship music. Throughout Van
Edward’s life, she brought joy to the District of
Columbia community as a wife, mother and
grandmother; a dedicated employee at the De-
partment of Commerce; and later as ‘‘Hajji the
Magic Clown’’.
Van Edwards was born in Washington, D.C.
and attended Dunbar High School. We grad-
uated together in 1955, the year before the
school was desegregated. After graduating
from Dunbar, Van Edwards attended the At-
lantic Business College and earned her bach-
elor’s degree in Business. She went on to
work at the Department of Commerce for 42
years in the Office of the Secretary and the
U.S. Patent office, where she was an adminis-
trative assistant and the first African American
woman to work for the U.S. Board of Patent
Appeals. She also worked in the International
Affairs division.
Van Edwards lost her husband in 1974 and
raised her two daughters, L. Robin V. Smith
and Adriene Jordan, alone. Bringing light to a
time of sadness, she became ‘‘Hajji the Magic
Clown.’’ She completed clown class at Mont-
gomery College and magic class at Catholic
University. She shared her talent with children
around Washington, D.C. and used her clown-
ing abilities to win Ms. Senior District of Co-
lumbia.
On June 29, 2003, at the age of 66, Van
Edwards was crowned the 21st Ms. Senior
District of Columbia. She proudly represented
D.C.’s other senior citizens for one year, en-
couraging them to live active lives. She was
said to have won the crown by exemplifying
‘‘the dignity, maturity and inner beauty of sen-
ior Americans.’’
I ask the House of Representatives to join
me in remembering the life of Ellen Van
Edwards.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE GRAND-
VIEW BULLDOGS STATE CHAM-
PIONSHIP
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the Grandview High
School men’s varsity basketball team and their
2019 state championship. This victory has
earned the team the honor of being the Mis-
souri Class 4 State Champions for the second
consecutive year. This remarkable achieve-
ment is a result of strong leadership and dedi-
cation from both players and coaches.
This is a significant achievement for Coach
Reggie Morris, who was recognized this spring
for his outstanding coaching with the Paul
Lambert Coach of the Year Award for the sec-
ond consecutive year. In 2018, Morris led his
team to the school’s first ever State Cham-
pionship. Following that victory, many of the
team’s best players graduated and went on to
play at the collegiate level. A mere twelve
months later, Morris was able to rebuild his
squad and return to Springfield to claim an-
other State Championship.
The new team was headlined by senior
point guard DeAndre Sorrells who set the
school record for 3-point baskets. With the
leadership of Morris and Sorrells, the team
cultivated an atmosphere of trust and hard
work, establishing a tight-knit team chemistry
both on and off the court. Their championship
victory in Springfield as the penultimate re-
ward for such a remarkable team and a fitting
end to a season that saw them win twenty
straight games.
The many accolades of Grandview’s basket-
ball team are a testament to the program that
they have built. In addition to winning the
State Championship, the Bulldogs were the
only team from Missouri recognized on the
Super 25 Regional Rankings list. Furthermore,
Coach Reggie Morris was named the 2019
Class 4 Coach of the Year, and DeAndre
Sorrells was recognized as Hy-Vee’s 41 Five-
Star Athlete of the Week.
The Grandview community rallied around
the Bulldogs during the season as they pro-
gressed game after game towards their in-
credible victory in the State Championship.
Now, the players look forward to enjoying fruit-
ful careers in various athletic and academic
fields after their graduation, and I encourage
each of them to continue challenging them-
selves on and off the court as they move for-
ward in life.
Madam Speaker, please join with Missouri’s
Fifth Congressional District in celebrating the
remarkable accomplishments of the Grand-
view Bulldogs. It is my pleasure to congratu-
late each of the players and coaches that
helped this superb team claim their title, and
I am exceedingly proud to represent such ex-
emplary student-athletes like those of the
Grandview High School basketball team.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.003 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E629
May 20, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained to cast my vote. Had I
been present, I would have voted against this
legislation. I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 217.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes Tuesday, May 14,
through Friday, May 17. Had I been present,
I would have voted as follows: Roll Call Vote
Number 203 (Passage of H.R. 299, the Blue
Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 204 (Passage of H.R.
2379): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 205 (Or-
dering the Previous Question): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 206 (Passage of H. Res. 377):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 207 (Passage of
H.R. 312, the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe
Reservation Reaffirmation Act): ‘‘yes’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 208 (Passage of H.R. 375):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 209 (Passage of
H.R. 1892, the Quadrennial Homeland Secu-
rity Review Technical Corrections Act): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 210 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 221 to H.R. 987 offered by Rep. DAVID
MCKINLEY): ‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Number 211
(Passage of H. AMDT. 225 to H.R. 987 of-
fered by Rep. JOSH HARDER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 212 (Passage of H. AMDT. 240
to H.R. 987 offered by Rep. JENNIFER
WEXTON): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 213
(Adoption of Motion to Recommit to H.R. 987):
‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Number 214 (Passage of
H.R. 987, the Marketing and Outreach Res-
toration to Empower Health Education Act of
2019 or MORE Health Education Act): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 215 (Approval of the
Journal): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 216
(Adoption of Motion to Recommit to H.R. 5):
‘‘no’’; and Roll Call Vote Number 217 (H.R. 5,
the Equality Act): ‘‘yes’’.
f
MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE
RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following article from The Wash-
ington Post regarding consideration of H.R.
312.
[From the Washington Post, May 13, 2019]
A RIDDLE IN NEW ENGLAND: A CASINO, 321
ACRES OF INDIAN TRIBAL LAND AND A PRESI-
DENTIAL TWEET
(By Marc Fisher)
Between a boast about bringing jobs to
Ohio and a statement of sympathy for vic-
tims of a school shooting in Colorado, Presi-
dent Trump last week found time to tweet
about an obscure House bill that would as-
sure a Massachusetts Indian tribe control of
321 acres of land it wants to use for a gam-
bling casino.
The president was against the bill, he
wrote, because it was ‘‘unfair and doesn’t
treat Native Americans equally!’’
Presidents don’t usually get involved in
local tiffs over a planned 900–room casino
hotel. And even though this president has a
four-decade-long record of slamming Amer-
ican Indian casinos as scams that pose unfair
competition to other gambling enterprises,
notably his own, Trump’s decision to weigh
in on a measure that had strong bipartisan
support seemed unusual for a chief executive
who doesn’t like to be bothered with the lit-
tle stuff.
But a closer look at House Bill 312 and the
favor it would do for the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reveals a sprawling net-
work of Trump-related interests, from the
National Enquirer to a Rhode Island casino
company—a small but strikingly intricate
example of the ways this president’s business
dealings, personal bonds and political alli-
ances can complicate and color the ordinary
doings of government.
On the surface, the matter is a simple dis-
pute over who wants a casino and who
doesn’t. The Mashpee Tribe seeks to build a
casino in southeastern Massachusetts. If the
federal government decreed the land to be
the tribe’s sovereign property, the casino
would be exempt from many taxes.
But some residents of the town where the
casino would be built sued over the project,
and after the tribe broke ground, a federal
judge sided with the residents, ruling that,
because of the history of that parcel of land,
the feds didn’t have the authority to guar-
antee it to the tribe.
So far, no Trump connection. But the
tribe’s site is about 18 miles from Rhode Is-
land, and that state’s politicians aren’t keen
to have a new competitor go up against their
two casinos, both of which are run by Twin
River Worldwide Holdings, a public company
with strong Trump ties.
Twin River’s president, George Papanier,
was a finance executive at the Trump Plaza
casino hotel in Atlantic City earlier in his
career, and Twin River’s chief marketing of-
ficer, Phil Juliano, also lists experience at a
Trump casino on his résumé.
For decades, Trump, whose Atlantic City
casinos were his first big venture outside
New York—they became some of his biggest
failures when they suffered bankruptcies in
the early 1990s—has spoken of casinos built
by Indian tribes as fraudulent ventures: ‘‘the
biggest scandal ever,’’ he said.
In 1993, concerned about competition from
the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut,
Trump urged a House committee on native
affairs to investigate whether members of
the tribe that operates that resort were real-
ly Native Americans.
‘‘They don’t look like Indians to me,’’
Trump said. In an earlier interview, he
opined that ‘‘I might have more Indian blood
than a lot of the so-called Indians that are
trying to open up the reservations’’ to gam-
bling.
In 2000, when New York state considered
expanding Indian casinos in the Catskill
Mountains north of New York City, Trump,
working through his longtime ally Roger
Stone, funded a group that paid for TV and
print ads accusing prominent members of the
Mohawk Indian tribe of having mob connec-
tions and criminal records. Trump and Stone
failed to report their spending on the ads as
lobbying, as the state required, and state
regulators imposed their largest-ever civil
penalty, $250,000, on Trump, who was forced
to issue a public apology.
But Trump has not always opposed Indian
casinos. In 1997, he cut a deal with another
Connecticut tribe, the Paucatuck Indians,
who agreed to pay him a management fee in
exchange for his efforts to win the tribe the
federal recognition it needed to open a ca-
sino.
In the Mashpee case, Twin River, the oper-
ator of the two Rhode Island casinos, has
hired Matthew Schlapp, chairman of the
American Conservative Union and a vocal
Trump supporter, to lobby for it on the land
issue. Schlapp’s wife, Mercedes, is director of
strategic communications at the White
House.
Matthew Schlapp said last week that his
wife played ‘‘no role in my advocacy’’ and
that he lobbied against the casino because it
was a ‘‘terrible idea.’’
The lobbyist apparently focused Trump’s
attention on the casino bill by connecting it
to Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D–Mass.), who is
seeking her party’s presidential nomination
and has been for years a favorite target of
Trump’s because of her since-retracted claim
to be Native American. But there is no Sen-
ate version of the House bill, which the
House is scheduled to vote on this week, and
Warren has made no statement on the casino
project.
Twin River has paid Schlapp’s company,
Cove Strategies, $30,000 this year, according
to federal records. Another lobbyist, Black
Diamond Strategies. also got $30,000 from the
casino firm to work on the Mashpee case,
records show. One of Black Diamond’s lobby-
ists working for Twin River, Doug Dav-
enport, was a delegate strategist for Trump’s
2016 campaign and formerly worked for ex-
Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort’s
lobbying company, where he handled public
affairs for clients including Trump.
As a candidate, Trump repeatedly prom-
ised to ‘‘drain the swamp,’’ describing Wash-
ington as a den of elite thieves—politicians,
lawyers, lobbyists, domineering corpora-
tions—whose interlocking interests were
more powerful than any political party or
ideological allegiance.
But as president, Trump has embraced the
very structures he railed against in the 2016
campaign, for example picking more than 350
former lobbyists to serve in his administra-
tion, most in agencies that they used to
lobby.
Spokesmen for the White House and Twin
River did not respond to requests for com-
ment.
The intersections between Trump and enti-
ties involved with Twin River can be com-
plex.
Among Twin River’s major investors is a $4
billion New Jersey-based hedge fund called
Chatham Asset Management and its founder,
Anthony Melchiorre, according to SEC
records. Chatham also owned about 80 per-
cent of American Media Inc., the publisher of
the National Enquirer, the supermarket tab-
loid that took payments from Trump’s long-
time lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, to
make certain that no stories were published
about two women’s allegations that they had
affairs with Trump.
A spokesman for Chatham declined to
speak on the record about Twin River’s in-
volvement in the Mashpee Indian matter,
but Chatham and Twin River have been em-
broiled in a lawsuit in Delaware, where Chat-
ham accused top executives at the casino
company of self-dealing and ‘‘placing their
personal financial interests above those of
Twin River’s stockholders.’’ Twin River has
denied the allegations.
David Pecker, American Media’s chief ex-
ecutive and a longtime ally of Trump’s, has
said that Chatham saved his company from
financial collapse. Pecker last fall signed an
agreement to cooperate with federal prosecu-
tors in New York who were investigating the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.007 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E630 May 20, 2019
payments made to Trump’s accusers. As part
of the agreement, Pecker and the Enquirer’s
chief content officer, Dylan Howard, admit-
ted to paying the women to ‘‘influence the
election.’’
According to the company’s website, AMI’s
four-person board of directors consists of
Pecker, two Chatham executives and a
former chief financial officer of Trump En-
tertainment Resorts, David R. Hughes.
American Media agreed last month to sell
the Enquirer to the chief executive of Hud-
son News, a chain of airport newsstands, for
$100 million. The sale was prompted by
Melchiorre’s unhappiness with the
Enquirer’s actions on Trump’s behalf, includ-
ing the so-called ‘‘catch and kill’’ gambit in
which the tabloid bought the two accusers’
stories and then published nothing about
them, and the Enquirer’s exposé an extra-
marital affair conducted by Amazon billion-
aire Jeff Bezos, who also owns The Wash-
ington Post.
American Media’s board and Melchiorre
‘‘didn’t want to deal with hassles like this
anymore,’’ according to an individual famil-
iar with the board’s deliberations who spoke
on the condition of anonymity to discuss pri-
vate talks.
That individual said Trump ‘‘has been
somewhat estranged from Pecker’’ since the
Enquirer executive began talking to federal
prosecutors.
f
HONORING MICHELLE VANCE
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Michelle Vance, who
will be leaving as District Manager of the
Tehachapi Valley Recreation and Park District
after more than 10 years of service to the
community of Tehachapi, California, which I
represent.
Michelle earned her Bachelor of Science at
California State University, Bakersfield, in Pub-
lic Policy Administration. After obtaining her
degree, Michelle worked as the Executive Di-
rector of Main Street Tehachapi, a business
advocacy group focused on creating a friend-
lier environment for Tehachapi’s businesses,
while recruiting new businesses to open up in
the city. She then served as a Field Rep-
resentative for the 2nd Supervisorial District
for the County of Kern, where she acted as a
liaison between the people of Tehachapi and
the County Board of Supervisors. Her next
job, Economic Development Coordinator for
the City of Tehachapi, combined her experi-
ences working for the County and the non-
profit world. During her time in Tehachapi,
Michelle helped bring new businesses into the
region and focused on revitalizing the down-
town core, as well as the Greater Tehachapi
Area. And most recently as Direct Manager,
spearheaded the Tehachapi Gran Fondo, a
hundred-mile bike ride through the mountains
of Tehachapi, something our community is
very proud of.
Michelle always fought for the people of
Tehachapi and will be remembered throughout
the community as someone who stood up for
their economic interests and helped make our
community the thriving, robust, and vibrant
place it is today. Michelle will be remembered
in Tehachapi for her tireless work ethic, her
can-do attitude, and her fervent belief in the
community she called home. As Michelle
starts a new chapter in her life, I want to thank
her for her service on behalf of the 23rd Dis-
trict of California, and wish her well in all fu-
ture endeavors.
f
GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TB,
AND MALARIA
HON. MARTHA ROBY
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mrs. ROBY. Madam Speaker, as a member
of the State and Foreign Operations Appro-
priations Subcommittee, I rise regarding to-
day’s full Appropriations Committee action on
the State and Foreign Operations Appropria-
tions Fiscal Year 2020 funding bill.
This bill provides vital resources and pro-
grams supporting American and global inter-
ests around the world. As you know, the
United States is a leader in global health, and
it is important that we remain engaged and not
become complacent, especially as life-threat-
ening diseases begin to advance and mutate.
The State and Foreign Operations Appro-
priations bill funds several health-related for-
eign policies that provide assistance, along
with our partners, to eradicate deadly and pre-
ventable diseases worldwide.
The Global Fund is one of these critical pro-
grams funded in this bill. As one of the world’s
most effective health organizations, it has de-
livered real results combatting deadly dis-
eases, saving over 27 million lives since its
conception. The Global Fund partnership in-
vests billions of dollars annually to support
programs fighting AIDS, tuberculosis, and ma-
laria around the world.
Madam Speaker, unfortunately, due to poli-
cies unrelated to the Global Fund, I was un-
able to support this funding bill in its entirety
during last week’s Committee consideration.
However, I would like to express the impor-
tance of the United States’ participation in this
partnership, and the clear signal to the rest of
the world that the United States will continue
to lead with its commitment to the Global
Fund.
I remain committed to working with my col-
leagues to find an agreement with the Senate
and the Administration on the overall Fiscal
Year 2020 funding level. Without an agree-
ment, the Fiscal Year 2020 appropriations
process will continue to have a difficult path
towards funding the government.
Madam Speaker, I call on my colleagues
from both sides of the aisle and both sides of
the Capitol to come together and work to-
wards a common goal of getting to an agree-
ment for the overall funding amount for Fiscal
Year 2020.
f
POLICE WEEK/OPERATION SMACK
DRAGON
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, our local law enforcement stand in
the gap between our families and danger.
Every day, they choose to put the safety of
our communities above their own.
This National Law Enforcement Week, I
want to extend my deepest gratitude to the
many police officers in my district and across
our country who protect our families.
In Tulsa, just this week, local police caught
and arrested 24 individuals in connection to a
drug trafficking cartel from Mexico. Operation
Smack Dragon made 73 indictments against
29 individuals, seized 3 kilograms of heroin,
and $150,000 in drug money.
Several of the arrested individuals were in
the country illegally.
Along with the community of Tulsa, I am so
thankful for the officers who put themselves in
danger to keep our people safe.
It is perhaps more dangerous to be a police
officer today than at any other period in history
and congressional inaction on key issues has
resulted in increased burdens on the police
force.
I stand with our law enforcement officers
today and every day.
f
MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE
RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following article from The Wash-
ington Examiner regarding consideration of
H.R. 312.
[From the Washington Examiner, May 13,
2019]
HOUSE DEMOCRATS RESCHEDULE VOTES ON
TRIBAL BILLS PULLED AFTER TRUMP TWEET
(By Naomi Lim)
House Democrats have rescheduled votes
on two Native American tribal bills this
week after they were yanked from the floor
at the last minute following pressure from
President Trump.
Democratic leadership has set a vote for
Wednesday on H.R. 312, legislation co-spon-
sored by Rep. William Keating, D–Mass.,
maintaining the status of the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation in the Bay
State.
A second proposal, H.R. 375, introduced by
Rep. Tom Cole, R–Okla., would reaffirm Inte-
rior Secretary David Bernhardt’s authority
to take land into trust on behalf of Indian
tribes. That measure is also due to be consid-
ered Wednesday, but under a streamlined
process requiring two-thirds support in the
House. As such, it needs the backing of
House Republicans.
‘‘Both of the bills pulled from the floor of
the House, H.R. 375 and H.R. 312, are impor-
tant to Indian Country,’’ Cole told the Wash-
ington Examiner in a statement on Monday.
‘‘I support both of the bills and look forward
to working with my Republican and Demo-
cratic colleagues to pass them on the floor.
I believe we will be successful in doing so.’’
But GOP lawmakers like Western Caucus
Chairman Paul Gosar, R–Ariz., have said
they will not help the legislation pass the
chamber. A spokeswoman for Gosar told the
Washington Examiner on Monday her boss,
who sits on the House Natural Resources
Committee with Cole, was ‘‘strongly op-
posed’’ to the proposals and would vote
against them ‘‘in their current form.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.009 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E631
May 20, 2019
‘‘Gosar has been leading the charge against
these bills since they were first brought up
in Natural Resources Committee. He offered
two amendments to both bills in com-
mittee—both failed,’’ the spokeswoman said.
H.R. 312 and H.R. 375 were originally sched-
uled for votes on May 8, but were yanked
after Trump tweeted that they would be ‘‘un-
fair’’ to Native Americans.
The Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe wants to
build a $1 billion casino on its land, but the
deal has been delayed by the Interior Depart-
ment and Rhode Island lawmakers worried
the development will undercut profits gen-
erated by its own casino industry.
The opposition has resulted in the Massa-
chusetts congressional delegation, including
Democratic 2020 presidential candidate Sen.
Elizabeth Warren, to push for the measure so
the tribe can have full control of the reserva-
tion. Matt Schlapp, American Conservative
Union chairman and husband of White House
communications director Mercedes Schlapp,
additionally runs a firm that lobbied against
the casino.
‘‘Republicans shouldn’t vote for H.R. 312, a
special interest casino Bill, backed by Eliza-
beth (Pocahontas) Warren,’’ Trump tweeted
last Wednesday. ‘‘It is unfair and doesn’t
treat Native Americans equally!’’
Schlapp did not immediately respond to re-
quest for comment.
f
HONORING THE 2019 UNITED
STATES SERVICE ACADEMY-
BOUND STUDENTS
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, it is my
great honor to come before my colleagues
today to recognize those young men and
women from Texas’ Third Congressional Dis-
trict who have accepted an appointment to
one of our prestigious United States Service
Academies.
The United States Services Academies
have a long-standing tradition of offering its
students the highest caliber education and offi-
cer military training in the world. Each of the
individuals recognized today began their jour-
ney of service by applying through their Mem-
ber of Congress or qualified source via a high-
ly competitive process. However, only a select
few are found to meet the necessary stand-
ards set forth by the Academies.
These outstanding students have proven
they are the gold standard by demonstrating
their excellence in academics, athletics, and
commitment to their community both inside
and outside of the classroom. I am confident
these young men and women will achieve
great success while further developing the
qualities of leadership, honor, and self-sac-
rifice as they prepare to lead our Nation’s
Armed Forces.
As one who has worn the uniform, I thank
these young patriots for their courage and
commitment to our Nation. It is my privilege to
congratulate these leaders as they embark on
a new mission of service to America.
CLASS OF 2023 APPOINTMENTS
U.S. Air Force Academy: Hayden Archer,
Frisco Liberty High School; Allie Dyer,
Plano East Senior High School; Andrew
Ferkany, Plano Senior High School *; Aidan
Gardiner, Wylie High School; Marcus Hill,
U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School;
Madison Martin, Texas Connections Acad-
emy; Jordan Simmons, Greenhill School *;
Conley Walters, U.S. Air Force Academy;
Jace Waters, Allen High School.
U.S. Naval Academy: Joseph Carter, Plano
East High School; Alexander Kramer, U.S.
Naval Academy Preparatory School; Morgan
Krepp, Mercersburg Academy; Aidan Waits,
U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School;
Jaylen Walker, U.S. Naval Academy Pre-
paratory School.
U.S. Military Academy: Jonah Barton, U
S. Military Academy Preparatory School;
Melic Belong, U.S. Military Academy Pre-
paratory School; Elijah Boyd, U.S. Military
Academy Preparatory School; Logan Brown,
U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School;
Caleb Doyle, McKinney Christian Academy;
Eric Han, U.S. Military Academy Pre-
paratory School; Makenna Kelty, McKinney
Boyd High School; Samuel Kim, Frisco High
School; Jalen Morgan, Plano West Senior
High School; Christopher Sowinski, Allen
High School; Parker Stevens, Allen High
School; Austin Widner, Liberty High School.
U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Mitchell
Boone, McKinney Christian Academy; Jona-
than Greer, Allen High School; Paul Han,
Independence High School.
* Denotes acceptance to one of the acad-
emy preparatory schools.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GREG PENCE
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I am not re-
corded for roll call vote No. 216 on Friday,
May 17, 2019 because I was meeting with 8th
grade Hoosiers from the Saint Bartholomew
Catholic School in Columbus, Indiana. Since
my first day in office, I have been squarely fo-
cused on what I was sent here to do: Rep-
resent Hoosiers of the 6th District.
As a man of faith, I am wholeheartedly op-
posed to H.R. 5—a bill that limits our nation’s
founding principles of freedom of religion, con-
science, and speech. We are a nation that al-
lows and embraces diverse thoughts and opin-
ions, but this bill would grant special privileges
to individuals at the expense of the freedoms
of others. Many women in Indiana’s 6th Dis-
trict depend on athletic scholarships to obtain
higher education and career aspirations, and
this legislation would unfairly force female ath-
letes to compete against biological males.
Had I been present, I would have voted Yea
on the Republican Motion to Recommit, RC
No. 216. This Motion to Recommit would have
amended H.R. 5 to ensure that nothing in the
bill may be construed to diminish any protec-
tions under Title IX, therefore safeguarding the
integrity of female sports.
f
RECOGNIZING BUILDING SAFETY
MONTH
HON. ANTHONY G. BROWN
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Building Safety Month
and the men and women of the International
Code Council (ICC) for their dedication to pub-
lic safety and our communities.
Year round, building safety and fire preven-
tion officials, architects, engineers, builders,
tradespeople, design professionals, laborers,
and others in the construction industry work to
ensure the safe construction of buildings. They
are dedicated members of the International
Code Council, a national standards developing
organization, that brings together local, state
and federal officials to develop voluntary con-
sensus codes that protect Americans in the
buildings where we live, work, and play. The
International Codes, the most widely adopted
building safety and fire prevention codes in the
nation, are used by most U.S. cities and coun-
ties, and in all 50 states, including the State of
Maryland.
With natural disasters expected to increase
in frequency and severity, building codes in-
clude important safeguards to protect the pub-
lic from hurricanes, snowstorms, tornadoes,
fires, floods, and earthquakes. In January
2019, the congressionally-established National
Institute of Building Sciences (NIBS) released
a study finding that adopting modern model
building codes saves $11 for every $1 in-
vested through earthquake, flood, and wind
mitigation benefits, with a $4 to $1 wildfire
mitigation benefit. These benefits represent
avoided casualties, property damage, busi-
ness interruptions, and insurance costs, and
are enjoyed by all stakeholders—from devel-
opers, titleholders, and lenders, to tenants and
communities.
This month is Building Safety Month, during
which we should recognize the critical role our
communities’ code officials in assuring us
safe, efficient, and livable buildings. Madam
Speaker, please join me in thanking Inter-
national Code Council Board President, and
my constituent from Anne Arundel County,
Maryland, William R. Bryant, as well as ICC’s
Chief Executive Officer Dominic Sims, the
International Code Council leadership, and
ICC’s Members and staff as they recognize
Building Safety Month.
f
HONORING HANNAH KARANICK—
ONE OF THE TOP 10 YOUTH VOL-
UNTEERS IN THE UNITED
STATES
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Hannah Karanick, 13, of Anaheim,
California, who was named one of America’s
top 10 youth volunteers of 2019 by The Pru-
dential Spirit of Community Awards during the
program’s 24th annual national award cere-
mony on May 9 in Washington, D.C.
Selected from a field of more than 29,000
youth volunteers from across the country,
Hannah has earned the title of National Hon-
oree, along with a personal award of $5,000,
an engraved gold medallion, a crystal trophy
for her school, and a $5,000 grant from The
Prudential Foundation for a nonprofit chari-
table organization of her choice.
An eighth-grader at Orangeview Junior High
School, Hannah established a ‘‘closet’’ at her
former elementary school that provides new
clothing, laundry products, toiletries, quilts and
school supplies to students there whose fami-
lies can’t afford to buy such necessities. Her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.013 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E632 May 20, 2019
project was sparked by a boy at her school
who never had a backpack and wore the
same clothes every day. ‘‘He was funny and
smart, but he was often teased for his hygiene
and his clothes, and I saw his eyes fill up with
tears many times,’’ said Hannah.
When the boy and several other students
ended up living with Hannah’s family as foster
kids, ‘‘I watched their grades soar and their at-
titudes turn around,’’ she said.
Since her family couldn’t take every child in
need into their home, Hannah had to find an-
other way to help. After meeting with the prin-
cipal of her old school and sending an opinion
poll to its staff members, she decided to cre-
ate a closet at the school where students
could discreetly obtain basic necessities.
She asked friends and family members to
help her buy supplies, and then began obtain-
ing items from the congregation of a local
church. Nearly 50 children benefited from
‘‘Hannah’s Helpful Hands’’ closet in its first
three months. ‘‘I am disappointed that I can’t
help more kids at this point,’’ said Hannah,
‘‘but I am committed to expanding the pro-
gram!’’
Madam Speaker, Hannah Karanick has not
only done important work in support of people
in need—but has also shown her peers that
young people can, and do, create meaningful
change. I commend this young volunteer for
all she’s contributed to her community.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF THE TREASURY OFFI-
CER PROTECTION ACT OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Department of the Treasury Offi-
cer Protection Act of 2019. I appreciate the bi-
partisan original cosponsorship of Representa-
tive PETER KING, who introduces the bill with
me today. Our bill would help ensure the safe-
ty of Treasury Department police officers by
allowing those officers, including those who
work at the Mint and the Bureau of Engraving
and Printing (BEP), to carry their service
weapons home with them after they are no
longer on duty.
BEP officers were some of the first respond-
ers when a gunman opened fire at the United
States Holocaust Memorial Museum in 2009.
However, BEP officers also can be targets be-
cause they wear uniforms to and from work.
Many officers carry personal weapons to and
from work because they are not allowed to
take their government firearms home, and
some are forced to leave those personal fire-
arms in their cars while they are on duty, cre-
ating a possibly dangerous situation.
Allowing BEP officers to carry their weapons
home will put them in the same position as
U.S. Mint officers. Although both are uni-
formed police officers working for the Treasury
Department, under current agency rules, U.S.
Mint officers are allowed to carry their service
weapons home, while BEP officers are not.
There is no meaningful distinction between of-
ficers for the two agencies. They should be
treated equally.
Our bill would allow all uniformed officers in
the Treasury Department to carry their service
weapons home to protect officers and the pub-
lic and so that the Department does not have
separate rules for different law enforcement
agencies under its umbrella.
I ask my colleagues to support this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING BARRY ‘‘BONES’’
PATTON
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the musical accomplishments of
Barry ‘‘Bones’’ Patton.
When traveling near Winfield in south cen-
tral Kansas, there are two sounds that one
might hear: cattle and bluegrass.
Winfield—home of the nationally recognized
Walnut Valley Festival for bluegrass and
acoustic music—is where Barry Patton uses
cattle rib bones to create unique music that
has put him on the world stage. His excep-
tional talent earned him the nickname Barry
‘‘Bones’’ Patton.
Refining his craft since the age of 13, Pat-
ton told KAKE–TV in a 2006 interview that
he’d been encouraged to ‘‘carry that tradition
on of bone playing because it’s really an old
lost art.’’ And that’s precisely what he’s done.
The art of playing bones finds its roots in
ancient history, from Mesopotamia and Egypt
to the Roman Empire and ancient Greece.
The instrument—often associated with folk
music—takes the simple remains of an animal
and turns it into a complex rhythm that takes
skill and practice to perfect.
The fact that Patton can play bones well in
both hands makes the sound of his music
even more impressive.
Representing the United States at the
Fleadh by the Feale music festival in
Abbeyfeale, Ireland, Barry ‘‘Bones’’ Patton
competed in their International Bone Playing
Competition and earned the title of best bone
player in the world on May 6.
I want to congratulate Patton on his inter-
national recognition and ask my colleagues to
join me in celebrating his bona fide success.
f
MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE
RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following article from the Daily
Beast regarding consideration of H.R. 312.
[From the Daily Beast, May 14, 2019]
A DARK MONEY GROUP IS RUNNING STUN-
NINGLY RACIST ELIZABETH WARREN ADS IN
ORDER TO KILL A CASINO
A racist ad targeting Sen. Elizabeth War-
ren (D–MA) and an obscure bill to allow a
Native American tribe to open a casino in
Massachusetts is connected to a longtime
conservative, dark money operative, The
Daily Beast has learned.
The Coalition to Restore American Values
has been running ads since November 2018
that, among other things, feature Warren in
an Indian headdress and warn against her
‘‘casino plan.’’ The group was registered to
David R. Langdon, a long time culture war-
rior, in July 2018, according to Ohio state
records.
The online ad was one of the first public
salvos linking Warren to the project in an
attempt to rally conservatives against legis-
lation recognizing a Native American tribe
seeking a new casino in Massachusetts.
President Donald Trump himself has since
declared his opposition to the legislation
last week in a tweet that dubbed Warren
‘‘Pocahontas.’’
The Coalition to Restore American Values
has been trying to tie Warren to the measure
since last year. In September, it ran an ad in
The Hill newspaper, declaring in block let-
ters ‘‘Pocahontas’ End Run On POTUS and
the U.S. DOI’’, using President Trump’s fa-
vorite racist nickname for the Massachu-
setts Senator. An accompanying website,
nofauxcasino.com, features Warren in Native
American garb beside a graphic depicting
‘‘The Fauxcahontas Casino.’’
Langdon is an Ohio-based lawyer who also
serves as treasurer for the Campaign for
American Principles, the political arm of the
American Principles Project, a conservative
advocacy outfit. And APP, it turns out, put
the Coalition to Restore American Values ad
on Congress’s radar.
Last week, Jon Schweppe, APP’s director
of government affairs, reached out to Jeff
Small, executive director of the Congres-
sional Western Caucus and a senior adviser
to Rep. Paul Gosar (R–AZ), urging the con-
gressman to oppose legislation recognizing
the Mashpee Wampanoag tribe in Massachu-
setts. The tribe plans to build a casino in
Taunton, MA, and Schweppe explicitly in-
voked Warren in pressing for Gosar to oppose
the measure.
‘‘Warren’s involvement is especially
strange, given her past ideological opposi-
tion to casino gambling and her record of
voting against gambling expansion—could
this be about image rehabilitation after
years of embellishing her fake Native Amer-
ican ancestry?’’ Schweppe wrote, before link-
ing to the Coalition to Restore American
Values ad.
Warren, who was a co-sponsor of the bill in
the last Congress, is not actually involved in
the bill at issue. In fact, the legislation
doesn’t even have a Senate companion. But
when Gosar circulated a ‘‘Dear Colleague’’
letter last week urging his colleagues to op-
pose the bill, he too invoked Warren’s sup-
posed involvement. He also included a link
to Schweppe’s email.
In an email to The Daily Beast, Schweppe
downplayed ties between APP and CRAV.
‘‘I’m fairly certain [Langdon] does work for
dozens of groups on the conservative side of
things,’’ he wrote.
Langdon did not respond to a request for
comment.
But the connections don’t end there.
CRAV’s website was designed by the Drogin
Group, a conservative digital vendor, accord-
ing to the firm’s website. That website also
boasts a testimonial from APP executive di-
rector Terry Schilling, who touts Drogin as
‘‘a well-rounded digital media vendor that is
technically savvy and can also offer website
design, brand strategy and messaging.’’ The
Campaign for American Principles engaged
Drogin’s services as late as October 2018 for
digital advertising attacking Sen. Tim Kaine
(D–VA), according to Federal Election Com-
mission records.
Schweppe did not respond when asked di-
rectly if his group has any affiliation with
CRAV.
Langdon’s and American Principles
Project’s involvement in the push against
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.017 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E633
May 20, 2019
the bill shows the degree to which the 2020
election is injecting itself into issues as
seemingly obscure and regional as the rec-
ognition of a Native American tribe and its
plans for a casino. Warren has been routinely
criticized by Trump and others for claiming
Native American heritage—though there’s
no evidence it secured her a post or a job.
But some opposition to the casino measure
seems to be rooted in money as much as poli-
tics.
Several Trump-connected lobbying groups
have been hired on behalf of Twin River
Management Group, which owns a Rhode Is-
land-based casino that would compete with
Mashpee Wampanoag’s casino if they get the
greenlight from Congress.
One firm hired by Twin River is run by
Trump adviser Matt Schlapp, who has, since
January, been lobbying Congress and the
White House on their behalf. Twin River has
paid his firm, Cove Strategies, $30,000 for its
work so far this year.
An hour after Schlapp tweeted his opposi-
tion to the bill last Wednesday, President
Trump himself tweeted his own call to kill
the legislation—a move that effectively scut-
tled Republican support and stalled its
progress on the House floor.
The legislation is expected to be up for a
vote again on May 15. Without congressional
action to enshrine their tribal rights, the ca-
sino deal in Taunton, Massachusetts will fall
through.
Unlike Schlapp, APP doesn’t appear to
have a vested financial interest in the Mash-
pee Wampanoag issue. Its top donors over
the past few years include major conserv-
ative funders such as the Mercer family, the
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Mis-
souri roofing magnate David Humphreys,
and Equinox Partners president Sean Fieler,
according to financial records left
unredacted on the website of Florida’s sec-
retary of state.
None of those funders appear to have an
immediate interest in the construction of a
new Massachusetts casino. Instead, APP’s
opposition appears rooted entirely in War-
ren’s perceived involvement in the issue—
and her ongoing campaign for the White
House.
The legislation pulled from the House floor
last week, Schweppe wrote, ‘‘amounted to a
taxpayer bailout for a corrupt casino con-
glomerate, which wouldn’t stand to benefit
American families but would stand to ben-
efit Senator Liz Warren, one of the leading
Democratic candidates for President.’’
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. SEAN P. DUFFY
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. DUFFY. Madam Speaker, on Thursday,
May 16, 2019 I missed the following vote and
was not recorded. Had I been present, I would
have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 211. On Fri-
day, May 17, 2019 I missed the following
votes and was not recorded. Had I been
present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call
No. 215; YEA on Roll Call No. 216; and NAY
on Roll Call 217.
CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF JJ
BABBITT
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Elkhart instrument man-
ufacturer jj Babbitt Company, Inc., and to join
them in celebrating 100 years of success.
In 1919, Jesse James Babbitt produced the
first of many beautifully crafted mouthpieces in
his garage in northern Indiana before launch-
ing a family business that would last for gen-
erations. A century later, jj Babbitt has now
grown to help musicians at every level deliver
great music and dazzling performances by
producing the industry’s finest mouthpieces for
clarinet and saxophone.
From the beginning, the company has fo-
cused on unique craftsmanship and a commit-
ment to innovation to produce the high-quality
mouthpieces they have made for 100 years.
Not much has changed about the Babbitt busi-
ness model or vision, and even some of the
original machines from the 1930s remain at
the heart of production.
Elkhart, Indiana, is the Band Instrument
Capital of the World, and as a community we
are grateful to have this company as a leader
and pioneer to inspire future generations of in-
strument manufacturers to carry on the legacy.
It is an honor to represent the hardworking
employees of the jj Babbit Company, who con-
tinue to play such a vital role in delivering the
perfect mouthpieces for musicians.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of 2nd District
Hoosiers, I want to thank everyone at jj Babbit
for an incredible 100 years, and I look forward
to many more incredible years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LLOYD SMUCKER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I was ab-
sent from votes on 5/16/2019 as I was with
my family at my daughter’s college graduation.
Had I been present, I would have voted on the
following roll call votes in the manner recorded
below: ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 210; ‘‘nay’’ on
Roll Call No. 211; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 212;
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 213; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call
No. 214; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 215; ‘‘yea’’ on
Roll Call No. 216; and ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No.
217.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CAPE
ABILITIES 50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the 50th Anniversary of Cape
Abilities, a treasured organization that has
touched countless lives through its tireless ad-
vocacy for individuals with disabilities in Mas-
sachusetts.
First founded in 1968 as Nauset Workshop,
Cape Abilities has steadily grown into a pillar
of the Cape Cod community. Over the past 50
years they have provided disabled individuals
with high quality services and opportunities to
have meaningful access to employment, hous-
ing, community support, counseling, edu-
cation, and more.
Every year Cape Abilities organizes the Har-
bor Walk, a 2.2 mile walk along the Hyannis
Harbor that brings together staff, participants,
partners, and supporters to help raise funds
and awareness for the important work that
Cape Abilities does. This year’s walk is par-
ticularly meaningful, as it will be held in cele-
bration of the more than 50 years of service
that Cape Abilities has provided since its in-
ception. By treating the people it serves with
dignity and respect, the positive impact that
Cape Abilities has had in the Cape Cod com-
munity is unparalleled.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the
50th anniversary of Cape Abilities and offer
my sincere gratitude for their dedication to
bettering their community. I ask that my col-
leagues join me in thanking them for their
service and wishing them all the best in the
years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I missed
votes on Friday May 17, 2019 due to a family
commitment. I took my oldest son on a college
visit. Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 215; YEA on Roll Call
No. 216; and NAY on Roll Call No. 217.
f
HOUSE PASSAGE OF THE
EQUALITY ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to note the House’s passage of the Equality
Act (H.R. 5), to afford nationwide protection
against discrimination for LGBTQ people in
employment, housing, credit, education, public
service and spaces, federally funded programs
and federal jury service. Equality for all Ameri-
cans has long been one of my signature
issues, but my work for equal treatment for the
LGBTQ community has had to have an addi-
tional dimension. Republicans have often tried
to use the District of Columbia’s unequal sta-
tus as a weapon against the LGBTQ commu-
nity. Opponents of equality for the LGBTQ
community have consistently targeted the Dis-
trict to pass their discriminatory agenda. I
have fought them off at every turn, beginning
with protecting D.C.’s domestic partnerships
law, ahead of its time in 1992, defending the
District’s marriage equality and same-sex
adoptions laws, and protecting D.C.’s law that
prohibits religiously affiliated schools from de-
nying LGBTQ students access to services and
facilities. In addition, I recently reintroduced
bills to protect LGBTQ jurors from discrimina-
tion in local D.C. courts, action only Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.020 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E634 May 20, 2019
can take because of the requirements of the
Home Rule Act, and to end the unique appli-
cability of the federal Religious Freedom Res-
toration Act of 1993 to the District.
The Equality Act is uniquely comprehensive.
Historically, when Congress has passed civil
rights legislation, it typically has done so by
category, whether in employment, or housing,
or the rest. However, the Equality Act, encom-
passing all forms of typical discrimination,
sends a special message. It is too late for
anything except legislation that takes on dis-
crimination against our LGBTQ community
once and for all.
The Equality Act also fills a large space I
have tried to fill ever since being elected to
Congress. My work for the LGBTQ community
has come naturally. As a lifelong fighter for
equal rights, I have always seen congressional
failure to address discrimination against the
LGBTQ community as no different from con-
gressional failure to bar segregation in the
public schools I attended as a child in the Dis-
trict, or to address discrimination in voting
rights and public accommodations I went to
Mississippi to fight as a student in the Student
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. The
Equality Act stands for the impossibility of
parsing discrimination. The history of discrimi-
nation in the United States teaches that all
bigotry is unacceptable.
f
REAFFIRMING AUTHORITY OF
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR TO
TAKE LAND INTO TRUST FOR IN-
DIAN TRIBES
SPEECH OF
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following article from The Wash-
ington Examiner regarding consideration of
H.R. 375.
[From The Washington Examiner, May 13,
2019]
HOUSE DEMOCRATS RESCHEUDLE VOTES ON
TRIBAL BILLS PULLED AFTER TRUMP TWEET
(by Naomi Lim)
House Democrats have rescheduled votes
on two Native American tribal bills this
week after they were yanked from the floor
at the last minute following pressure from
President Trump.
Democratic leadership has set a vote for
Wednesday on H.R. 312, legislation co-spon-
sored by Rep. William Keating, D–Mass.,
maintaining the status of the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation in the Bay
State.
A second proposal, H.R. 375, introduced by
Rep. Tom Cole, R–Okla., would reaffirm Inte-
rior Secretary David Bernhardt’s authority
to take land into trust on behalf of Indian
tribes. That measure is also due to be consid-
ered Wednesday, but under a streamlined
process requiring two-thirds support in the
House. As such, it needs the backing of
House Republicans.
‘‘Both of the bills pulled from the floor of
the House, H.R. 375 and H.R. 312, are impor-
tant to Indian Country,’’ Cole told the Wash-
ington Examiner in a statement on Monday.
‘‘I support both of the bills and look forward
to working with my Republican and Demo-
cratic colleagues to pass them on the floor.
I believe we will be successful in doing so.’’
But GOP lawmakers like Western Caucus
Chairman Paul Gosar, R–Ariz., have said
they will not help the legislation pass the
chamber. A spokeswoman for Gosar told the
Washington Examiner on Monday her boss,
who sits on the House Natural Resources
Committee with Cole, was ‘‘strongly op-
posed’’ to the proposals and would vote
against them ‘‘in their current form.’’
‘‘Gosar has been leading the charge against
these bills since they were first brought up
in Natural Resources Committee. He offered
two amendments to both bills in com-
mittee—both failed,’’ the spokeswoman said.
H.R. 312 and H.R. 375 were originally sched-
uled for votes on May 8, but were yanked
after Trump tweeted that they would be ‘‘un-
fair’’ to Native Americans.
The Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe wants to
build a $1 billion casino on its land, but the
deal has been delayed by the Interior Depart-
ment and Rhode Island lawmakers worried
the development will undercut profits gen-
erated by its own casino industry.
The opposition has resulted in the Massa-
chusetts congressional delegation, including
Democratic 2020 presidential candidate Sen.
Elizabeth Warren, to push for the measure so
the tribe can have full control of the reserva-
tion. Matt Schlapp, American Conservative
Union chairman and husband of White House
communications director Mercedes Schlapp,
additionally runs a firm that lobbied against
the casino.
‘‘Republicans shouldn’t vote for H.R. 312, a
special interest casino Bill, backed by Eliza-
beth (Pocahontas) Warren,’’ Trump tweeted
last Wednesday. ‘‘It is unfair and doesn’t
treat Native Americans equally!’’
Schlapp did not immediately respond to re-
quest for comment.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
ANNIVERSARY OF THE HOUSE
PASSAGE OF AN AMENDMENT TO
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the 100th anniversary of
House passage of the 19th amendment to the
United States Constitution—prohibiting the
government from denying the right to vote to
citizens on the basis of sex.
In the year of 1893, the first attempt to orga-
nize the Women’s Suffrage Movement in the
state of Texas took place in Dallas, with the
formation of The Texas Equal Rights Associa-
tion.
Twenty-six years later Texas became the
first state in the south to ratify the 19th
amendment. From raising families, to orga-
nizing political movements, to fighting over
seas, our country could not thrive without the
influence of so many strong and determined
women.
It is with great admiration that I ask my col-
leagues to join me in remembering the pio-
neering efforts of women 100 years ago that
are still shaping our nation today.
IN CELEBRATION OF THE HONOR-
ABLE JOHN JAMES CONYERS
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize The Honorable John
J. Conyers, who celebrated his 90th birthday
on May 16th.
Mr. Conyers is a distinguished public serv-
ant who represented the people of Michigan in
the U.S. House of Representatives for 52
years. During his tenure, he held a number of
reputable positions, including Chairman of the
House Oversight Committee, Chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, and the 44th
Dean of the House of Representatives. Mr.
Conyers was an effective legislator who was
known among the Halls of Congress as cham-
pion of justice and judiciary issues.
As the longest-serving African-American
member of Congress, Mr. Conyers was a trail-
blazer for civil rights during his time in Con-
gress and is credited as one of the 13 original
founders of the Congressional Black Caucus.
He was the first to introduce a bill calling for
the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. to be
recognized as a national holiday dedicated to
his life and legacy.
I ask my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating Mr. Conyers as he celebrates this mo-
mentous achievement. I also wish him many
more happy birthdays in the future.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted: ‘‘nay’’ on Roll
Call No. 210; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 211;
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 212; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call
No. 213; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 214; ‘‘yea’’ on
Roll Call No. 215; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 216;
and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 217.
f
THE HONORABLE DAMON JEROME
KEITH
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, May 20, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
as the representative of the 30th District of
Texas, I’d like to recognize the passing of The
Honorable Damon Jerome Keith, Senior Judge
of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit.
Judge Damon J. Keith, one of the nation’s
longest-serving federal judges, was a tireless
champion of civil rights and civil liberties. Born
in Detroit in 1922, Judge Keith was the grand-
son of enslaved people. He went on to be-
come the sixth African American in U.S. his-
tory to serve on the federal court of appeals.
During his time on the bench, he made a se-
ries of landmark decisions that changed the
social and legal landscape of the country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.026 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E635
May 20, 2019
Judge Keith graduated from West Virginia
State College in 1943 before serving in a seg-
regated army during World War II. He would
go on to receive his J.D. from Howard Law
School in 1949, pass the Michigan bar exam
in 1950 and earn an L.L.M. from Wayne State
University School of Law in 1956.
By 1967, Judge Keith was on the U.S. Dis-
trict Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.
By 1975, he was chief judge, and in 1977 he
was nominated by President Jimmy Carter to
succeed Wade McCree on the federal court of
appeals.
Judge Keith’s legacy was cemented when
he famously ruled in 1971 that President Rich-
ard Nixon’s Attorney General John Mitchell
had to disclose the transcripts of illegal wire-
taps Mitchell had authorized without first ob-
taining a search warrant. Judge Keith’s deci-
sion was upheld by the Court of Appeals. The
Supreme Court’s landmark decision in United
States v. U.S. District Court also known as
‘‘the Keith Case,’’ contributed in 1978 to Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter signing the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act (FISA).
In one of the federal judiciary’s longest and
most prolific careers, Judge Keith was a foun-
tainhead of regional rulings with national impli-
cations. He attacked racial segregation in edu-
cation, housing and employment; conservative
efforts to limit African-American voting; and
after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
secret hearings to deport hundreds of immi-
grants deemed suspicious led by Attorney
General John Ashcroft.
America is a better country because she
had Judge Keith to help safeguard our civil lib-
erties. I want to honor Judge Keith for his tire-
less commitment to providing equality and jus-
tice to all.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, May
21, 2019 may be found in the Daily Di-
gest of today’s record.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MAY 22
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
the Interior.
SD–124
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine aging and
disability in the 21st century, focusing
on how technology can help maintain
health and quality of life.
SD–562
9:45 a.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine legislation
to address the risks associated with
per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS).
SD–406
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold closed hearings to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Missile
Defense Agency.
SVC–217
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Daniel Aaron Bress, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Michael S.
Bogren, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of
Michigan, Stephanie Dawkins Davis, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Michigan, Jason K.
Pulliam, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of
Texas, Frank William Volk, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of West Virginia, and
David Austin Tapp, of Kentucky, to be
a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold closed hearings to examine the
reconciliation process in Afghanistan.
SVC–217
2 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider S. 178, to
condemn gross human rights violations
of ethnic Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang,
and calling for an end to arbitrary de-
tention, torture, and harassment of
these communities inside and outside
China, S. 249, to direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain
observer status for Taiwan in the
World Health Organization, S. 1025, to
provide humanitarian relief to the Ven-
ezuelan people and Venezuelan mi-
grants, to advance a constitutional and
democratic solution to Venezuela’s po-
litical crisis, to address Venezuela’s
economic reconstruction, to combat
public corruption, narcotics traf-
ficking, and money laundering, S. 1340,
to authorize activities to combat the
Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Re-
public of the Congo, H.R. 31, to require
certain additional actions in connec-
tion with the national emergency with
respect to Syria, S. Res. 74, marking
the fifth anniversary of Ukraine’s Rev-
olution of Dignity by honoring the
bravery, determination, and sacrifice
of the people of Ukraine during and
since the Revolution, and condemning
continued Russian aggression against
Ukraine, S. Res. 81, calling for account-
ability and justice for the assassina-
tion of Boris Nemtsov, S. Res. 135, ex-
pressing the gratitude and appreciation
of the Senate for the acts of heroism
and valor by the members of the
United States Armed Forces who par-
ticipated in the June 6, 1944, amphib-
ious landing at Normandy, France, and
commending those individuals for lead-
ership and bravery in an operation that
helped bring an end to World War II, S.
Res. 184, condemning the Easter Sun-
day terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka, of-
fering sincere condolences to the vic-
tims, to their families and friends, and
to the people and nation of Sri Lanka,
and expressing solidarity and support
for Sri Lanka, S. Res. 188, encouraging
a swift transfer of power by the mili-
tary to a civilian-led political author-
ity in the Republic of the Sudan, the
nomination of Jeffrey L. Eberhardt, of
Wisconsin, to be Special Representa-
tive of the President for Nuclear Non-
proliferation, with the rank of Ambas-
sador, Department of State, and other
pending calendar business.
S–116
Joint Economic Committee
To hold hearings to examine the eco-
nomic impacts of the 2020 Census and
business uses of Federal data.
CHOB–210
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion Office of Advocacy.
SD–106
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine S. 123, to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to enter into a contract or other agree-
ment with a third party to review ap-
pointees in the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration who had a license termi-
nated for cause by a State licensing
board for care or services rendered at a
non-Veterans Health Administration
facility and to provide individuals
treated by such an appointee with no-
tice if it is determined that an episode
of care or services to which they re-
ceived was below the standard of care,
S. 221, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to require the Under Secretary of
Health to report major adverse per-
sonnel actions involving certain health
care employees to the National Practi-
tioner Data Bank and to applicable
State licensing boards, S. 318, to au-
thorize the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to furnish medically necessary
transportation for newborn children of
certain women veterans, S. 450, to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to carry out a pilot program to expe-
dite the onboarding process for new
medical providers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, to reduce the dura-
tion of the hiring process for such med-
ical providers, S. 514, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
benefits and services provided by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, S. 524, to establish the
Department of Veterans Affairs Advi-
sory Committee on Tribal and Indian
Affairs, S. 711, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand eligibility for
mental health services from the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to include
members of the reserve components of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20MY8.031 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E636 May 20, 2019
the Armed Forces, S. 746, to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the accessibility of
websites of the Department of Veterans
Affairs to individuals with disabilities,
S. 785, to improve mental health care
provided by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, S. 805, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
processing of veterans benefits by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, to
limit the authority of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to recover overpay-
ments made by the Department and
other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the due proc-
ess accorded veterans with respect to
such recovery, S. 850, to extend the au-
thorization of appropriations to the
Department of Veterans Affairs for
purposes of awarding grants to vet-
erans service organizations for the
transportation of highly rural vet-
erans, S. 857, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the amount of
special pension for Medal of Honor re-
cipients, S. 980, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
provision of services for homeless vet-
erans, S. 1101, to ensure that only li-
censed health care providers furnish
disability examinations under a certain
Department of Veterans Affairs pilot
program for use of contract physicians
for disability examinations, S. 1154, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
establish an advisory committee on the
implementation by the Department of
Veterans Affairs of an electronic
health record, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Janey Ensminger Act of 2019’’, and an
original bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the authority of
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
continue to pay educational assistance
or subsistence allowances to eligible
persons when educational institutions
are temporarily closed.
SR–418
MAY 23
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine resources
needed to protect and secure the home-
land.
SD–342
9:45 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific,
and International Cybersecurity Policy
To hold hearings to examine the Asia Re-
assurance Initiative Act in action, fo-
cusing on the benefits of economic di-
plomacy.
SD–419
MAY 24
9:30 a.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing with the House
Committee on Financial Services on
trade-based money laundering.
RHOB–2360
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M20MY8.000 E20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D562
Monday, May 20, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2951–S2984
Measures Introduced: Twelve bills were intro-
duced, as follows: S. 1541–1552. Page S2962
Measures Passed:
Alaska Remote Generator Reliability and Pro-
tection Act: Senate passed S. 163, to prevent cata-
strophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power
engines due to emission control devices. Page S2982
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 13303 of May
22, 2003, with respect to the stabilization of Iraq;
which was referred to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–18) Page S2961
Collins Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Daniel P. Collins,
of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit. Pages S2957–59
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 117), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S2957–58
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, at 2:15
p.m., on Tuesday, May 21, 2019, all post-cloture
time on the nomination expire. Page S2982
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10:00 a.m., on Tues-
day, May 21, 2019. Page S2982
Messages from the House: Pages S2961–62
Measures Referred: Page S2962
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S2962
Executive Communications: Page S2962
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2962–64
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2964–72
Additional Statements: Pages S2960–61
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S2972
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—117) Pages S2957–58
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:54 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, May
21, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S2982.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
AUTHORIZATION: DEFENSE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness and Management Support met in closed session
and approved for full committee consideration those
provisions which fall under the subcommittee’s juris-
diction of the proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
AUTHORIZATION: DEFENSE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Airland
met in closed session and approved for full com-
mittee consideration those provisions which fall
under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal
year 2020.
AUTHORIZATION: DEFENSE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces met in closed session and approved for
full committee consideration those provisions which
fall under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal
year 2020.
PROSPECTS FOR AFGHAN PEACE
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee received a
closed briefing on the prospects for Afghan peace
from William Burke, National Intelligence Officer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D563
May 20, 2019
for Afghanistan, and Randall Blake, National Intel-
ligence Officer for Transnational Threats, both of the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 17 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2837–2838, 2840–2854; 1 private
bill, H.R. 2855; and 1 resolution, H. Res. 390, were
introduced. Pages H4009–10
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H4011–12
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2326, to amend the Social Security Act, to
amend the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans’
Benefits Improvement Act of 2012, and to direct the
Secretaries of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor, and
Homeland Security, and the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, to take certain ac-
tions to improve transition assistance to members of
the Armed Forces who separate, retire, or are dis-
charged from the Armed Forces, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–73, Part
1);
H.R. 2480, to reauthorize the Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment Act, and for other purposes,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–74);
H.R. 1812, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to furnish Vet Center readjustment counseling
and related mental health services to certain individ-
uals, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–75);
H.R. 1947, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to exempt transfers of funds from Federal
agencies to the Department of Veterans Affairs for
nonprofit corporations established under subchapter
IV of chapter 73 of such title from certain provisions
of the Economy Act, with amendments (H. Rept.
116–76);
H.R. 2340, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to provide to Congress notice of any suicide or
attempted suicide of a veteran in a Department of
Veterans Affairs facility, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–77);
H.R. 2839, making appropriations for Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–78);
H. Res. 389, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1500) to require the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to meet its statutory purpose, and
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1994) to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to encourage retirement savings, and
for other purposes; providing for the proceedings
during the period from May 24, 2019, through May
31, 2019; and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–79);
and
Committee on Appropriations. Revised Suballoca-
tion of Budget Allocations for Fiscal Year 2020 (H.
Rept. 116–80). Page H4009
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Clay to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H3965
Recess: The House recessed at 12:01 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H3965
Recess: The House recessed at 2:04 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:02 p.m. Page H3966
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Global Fragility Act: H.R. 2116, to enhance sta-
bilization of conflict-affected areas and prevent vio-
lence and fragility globally; Pages H3966–69
Refugee Sanitation Facility Safety Act of 2019:
H.R. 615, to provide women and girls safe access to
sanitation facilities in refugee camps; Page H3970
Digital Global Access Policy Act of 2019: H.R.
1359, to promote Internet access in developing
countries and update foreign policy toward the Inter-
net; Pages H3970–73
Intercountry Adoption Information Act of 2019:
H.R. 1952, amended, to amend the Intercountry
Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary of
State to report on intercountry adoptions from coun-
tries which have significantly reduced adoption rates
involving immigration to the United States, by a 2⁄3
yea-and-nay vote of 397 yeas with none voting
‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 218; Pages H3973–75, H3995
Global Electoral Exchange Act of 2019: H.R.
753, to promote international exchanges on best
election practices, cultivate more secure democratic
institutions around the world; Pages H3975–76
Denouncing female genital mutilation/cutting
as a violation of the human rights of women and
girls and urging the international community and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D564 May 20, 2019
the Federal Government to increase efforts to
eliminate the harmful practice: H. Res. 106, de-
nouncing female genital mutilation/cutting as a vio-
lation of the human rights of women and girls and
urging the international community and the Federal
Government to increase efforts to eliminate the
harmful practice, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 393
yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 219; and
Pages H3976–78, H3996
Stronger Child Abuse Prevention and Treat-
ment Act: H.R. 2480, amended, to reauthorize the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act.
Pages H3978–94
Recess: The House recessed at 5:36 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H3995
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to the sta-
bilization of Iraq is to continue in effect beyond May
22, 2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–36).
Pages H3994–95
Senate Referrals: S. 744 was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. S. 820 was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary. S. 998 was referred to
the Committee on the Judiciary. S. 1379 was held
at the desk. Page H4007
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on pages H3965–66.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H3995 and H3996. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:49 p.m.
Committee Meetings
SETTING EVERY COMMUNITY UP FOR
RETIREMENT ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2019;
CONSUMERS FIRST ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 1500, the ‘‘Consumers First Act’’; and H.R.
1994, the ‘‘Setting Every Community Up for Retire-
ment Enhancement Act of 2019’’. The Committee
granted, by record vote of 6–4, a rule providing for
consideration of H.R. 1500, the ‘‘Consumers First
Act’’, and H.R. 1994, the ‘‘Setting Every Commu-
nity Up for Retirement Enhancement Act of 2019’’.
The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 1500,
the ‘‘Consumers First Act’’, under a structured rule.
The rule provides one hour of general debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices. The rule waives all points of order against con-
sideration of the bill. The rule provides that an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–15 shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order only those
amendments printed in part A of the Rules Com-
mittee report accompanying the resolution. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part A of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. The rule
provides for consideration of H.R. 1994, the ‘‘Set-
ting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhance-
ment Act of 2019’’, under a closed rule. The rule
provides one hour of general debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Ways and Means. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the bill. The rule provides that the amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the
bill, modified by the amendment printed in part B
of the Rules Committee report, shall be considered
as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as read. The rule waives all points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended. The rule
provides one motion to recommit with or without
instructions. Section 3 of the rule provides that on
any legislative day during the period from May 24,
2019, through May 31, 2019: the Journal of the
proceedings of the previous day shall be considered
as approved; and the Chair may at any time declare
the House adjourned to meet at a date and time to
be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjourn-
ment. The rule provides that the Speaker may ap-
point Members to perform the duties of the Chair
for the duration of the period addressed by section
3.
The rule provides that each day during the period
addressed by section 3 shall not constitute a legisla-
tive day for the purposes of clause 7 of rule XV, the
Consensus Calendar. The rule provides that it shall
be in order at any time on the legislative day of May
23, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions that
the House suspend the rules relating to a measure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D565
May 20, 2019
making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019. The rule waives
the requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee
on Rules on the same day it is presented to the
House with respect to any resolution reported
through the legislative day of May 23, 2019, relat-
ing to a measure making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019.
Finally, the rule provides that the Committee on
Appropriations may, at any time before 5:00 p.m. on
Sunday, June 2, 2019, file privileged reports to ac-
company measures making appropriations for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020. Testimony was
heard from Chairman Neal, Chairman Waters, and
Representatives Smith of Nebraska, Mitchell,
McHenry, Steil, Jackson Lee, and Rodney Davis of
Illinois.
BUSINESS MEETING
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a business meeting on public release of
Michael Cohen interview transcripts (February 28
and March 6, 2019) and certain exhibits. Public Re-
lease of Michael Cohen interview transcripts (Feb-
ruary 28 and March 6, 2019) and certain exhibits,
was approved, without amendment. This meeting
was closed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
MAY 21, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: to hold
hearings to examine climate change and the agriculture
sector, 9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Cyberse-
curity, closed business meeting to markup those provi-
sions which fall under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction of
the proposed National Defense Authorization Act for fis-
cal year 2020, 9:30 a.m., SR–232A.
Subcommittee on SeaPower, closed business meeting to
markup those provisions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National Defense Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 11 a.m., SR–232A.
Subcommittee on Personnel, business meeting to mark-
up those provisions which fall under the subcommittee’s
jurisdiction of the proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020, 2:15 p.m., SD–G50.
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities,
closed business meeting to markup those provisions
which fall under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction of the
proposed National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal
year 2020, 4:30 p.m., SR–232A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine combating illicit financing by
anonymous shell companies through the collection of ben-
eficial ownership information, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider the nominations of Daniel Habib
Jorjani, of Kentucky, to be Solicitor, and Mark Lee
Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, both of
the Department of the Interior; to be immediately fol-
lowed by a hearing to examine opportunities to advance
renewable energy and energy efficiency efforts in the
United States, 10:15 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Pamela Bates, of Virginia, to be
Representative of the United States of America to the Or-
ganization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
with the rank of Ambassador, and Christopher Landau, of
Maryland, to be Ambassador to the United Mexican
States, both of the Department of State, Jennifer D.
Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United States Executive Di-
rector of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, and other pending nominations, 11 a.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emer-
gency Management, to hold hearings to examine the
Government Accountability Office’s annual duplication
report, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the digital advertising ecosystem and the impact of data
privacy and competition policy, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: closed business meeting
to consider pending intelligence matters; to be imme-
diately followed by a closed hearing to examine certain
intelligence matters, 9:30 a.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Livestock
and Foreign Agriculture, hearing entitled ‘‘To Review
Animal Pest and Disease Prevention and Response Capa-
bilities’’, 11 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, Full Committee, markup on
the Energy and Water Development, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020; and the Defense Ap-
propriations Bill, FY 2020, 10:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Military
Personnel; and Subcommittee on Health of the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, joint hearing entitled
‘‘Military and Veteran Suicide: Understanding the Prob-
lem and Preparing for the Future’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Eliminating Barriers to Employment: Open-
ing Doors to Opportunity’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D566 May 20, 2019
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Under-
mining Mercury Protections: EPA Endangers Human
Health and the Environment’’, 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Improving
Drug Pricing Transparency and Lowering Prices for
American Consumers’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Housing in America: Oversight of the U.S. De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development’’, 10 a.m.,
2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe,
Eurasia, Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Undermining Democ-
racy: Kremlin Tools of Malign Political Influence’’, 10
a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Trans-
portation and Maritime Security, hearing entitled ‘‘The
TSA Workforce Crisis: A Homeland Security Risk’’, 10
a.m., 310 Cannon.
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protec-
tion and Innovation, hearing entitled ‘‘Growing and Di-
versifying the Cyber Talent Pipeline’’, 2 p.m., 310 Can-
non.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Election Assistance
Commission’’, 2 p.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Report by Special Counsel Rob-
ert S. Mueller, III: Former White House Counsel Donald
F. McGahn, II’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the
President’s Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Proposal for the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Government Operations, hearing entitled ‘‘Trump’s War
on a Merit Based Civil Service’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Investigations and Oversight, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Need for Resilience: Preparing America’s Transportation
Infrastructure for Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, Oversight, and Regulation, hearing entitled ‘‘In-
vesting in Community: The SBA’s Community Advan-
tage Loan Program’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation,
hearing entitled ‘‘Review of Fiscal Year 2020 Budget for
the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Programs’’,
10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Health,
hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing on Protecting Patients from
Surprise Medical Bills’’, 3 p.m., 1100 Longworth.
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of May 21 through May 24, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Daniel P. Collins, of California, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Daniel
P. Collins, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Howard C. Nielson,
Jr., of Utah, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Utah.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: May 21,
to hold hearings to examine climate change and the agri-
culture sector, 9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Appropriations: May 22, Subcommittee on
Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget
estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the De-
partment of the Interior, 9:30 a.m., SD–124.
May 22, Subcommittee on Department of Defense, to
hold closed hearings to examine proposed budget esti-
mates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Missile
Defense Agency, 10 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Armed Services: May 21, Subcommittee on
Cybersecurity, closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the subcommittee’s jurisdic-
tion of the proposed National Defense Authorization Act
for fiscal year 2020, 9:30 a.m., SR–232A.
May 21, Subcommittee on SeaPower, closed business
meeting to markup those provisions which fall under the
subcommittee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National De-
fense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 11 a.m.,
SR–232A.
May 21, Subcommittee on Personnel, business meeting
to markup those provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National Defense
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 2:15 p.m.,
SD–G50.
May 21, Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Ca-
pabilities, closed business meeting to markup those provi-
sions which fall under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction of
the proposed National Defense Authorization Act for fis-
cal year 2020, 4:30 p.m., SR–232A.
May 22, Full Committee, closed business meeting to
markup the proposed National Defense Authorization Act
for fiscal year 2020, 9 a.m., SR–222.
May 23, Full Committee, closed business meeting to
markup the proposed National Defense Authorization Act
for fiscal year 2020, 9 a.m., SR–222.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D567
May 20, 2019
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: May
21, to hold hearings to examine combating illicit financ-
ing by anonymous shell companies through the collection
of beneficial ownership information, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: May 21, busi-
ness meeting to consider the nominations of Daniel
Habib Jorjani, of Kentucky, to be Solicitor, and Mark Lee
Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, both of
the Department of the Interior; to be immediately fol-
lowed by a hearing to examine opportunities to advance
renewable energy and energy efficiency efforts in the
United States, 10:15 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: May 22, to
hold hearings to examine legislation to address the risks
associated with per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS), 9:45 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: May 21, to hold hearings
to examine the nominations of Pamela Bates, of Virginia,
to be Representative of the United States of America to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop-
ment, with the rank of Ambassador, and Christopher Lan-
dau, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to the United Mexi-
can States, both of the Department of State, Jennifer D.
Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United States Executive Di-
rector of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, and other pending nominations, 11 a.m.,
SD–419.
May 22, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to
examine the reconciliation process in Afghanistan, 10:15
a.m., SVC–217.
May 22, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
S. 178, to condemn gross human rights violations of eth-
nic Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and harassment of these
communities inside and outside China, S. 249, to direct
the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to regain ob-
server status for Taiwan in the World Health Organiza-
tion, S. 1025, to provide humanitarian relief to the Ven-
ezuelan people and Venezuelan migrants, to advance a
constitutional and democratic solution to Venezuela’s po-
litical crisis, to address Venezuela’s economic reconstruc-
tion, to combat public corruption, narcotics trafficking,
and money laundering, S. 1340, to authorize activities to
combat the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, H.R. 31, to require certain additional ac-
tions in connection with the national emergency with re-
spect to Syria, S. Res. 74, marking the fifth anniversary
of Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity by honoring the brav-
ery, determination, and sacrifice of the people of Ukraine
during and since the Revolution, and condemning contin-
ued Russian aggression against Ukraine, S. Res. 81, call-
ing for accountability and justice for the assassination of
Boris Nemtsov, S. Res. 135, expressing the gratitude and
appreciation of the Senate for the acts of heroism and
valor by the members of the United States Armed Forces
who participated in the June 6, 1944, amphibious land-
ing at Normandy, France, and commending those indi-
viduals for leadership and bravery in an operation that
helped bring an end to World War II, S. Res. 184, con-
demning the Easter Sunday terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka,
offering sincere condolences to the victims, to their fami-
lies and friends, and to the people and nation of Sri
Lanka, and expressing solidarity and support for Sri
Lanka, S. Res. 188, encouraging a swift transfer of power
by the military to a civilian-led political authority in the
Republic of the Sudan, the nomination of Jeffrey L.
Eberhardt, of Wisconsin, to be Special Representative of
the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the rank
of Ambassador, Department of State, and other pending
calendar business, 2 p.m., S–116, Capitol.
May 23, Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and
International Cybersecurity Policy, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act in action, fo-
cusing on the benefits of economic diplomacy, 9:45 a.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
May 21, Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight
and Emergency Management, to hold hearings to examine
the Government Accountability Office’s annual duplica-
tion report, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
May 22, Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Fed-
eral Management, with the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, to hold hearings to examine reau-
thorization of the Small Business Administration Office of
Advocacy, 2:30 p.m., SD–106.
May 23, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
resources needed to protect and secure the homeland,
9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: May 21, to hold hearings to
examine the digital advertising ecosystem and the impact
of data privacy and competition policy, 10 a.m., SD–226.
May 22, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Daniel Aaron Bress, of California, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Mi-
chael S. Bogren, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Michigan, Stephanie Dawkins
Davis, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Michigan, Jason K. Pulliam, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of Texas,
Frank William Volk, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of West Virginia, and David
Austin Tapp, of Kentucky, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: May 22,
with the Committee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management, to hold hearings to examine reau-
thorization of the Small Business Administration Office of
Advocacy, 2:30 p.m., SD–106.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: May 22, to hold hearings
to examine S. 123, to require the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to enter into a contract or other agreement with
a third party to review appointees in the Veterans Health
Administration who had a license terminated for cause by
a State licensing board for care or services rendered at a
non-Veterans Health Administration facility and to pro-
vide individuals treated by such an appointee with notice
if it is determined that an episode of care or services to
which they received was below the standard of care, S.
221, to amend title 38, United States Code, to require
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D568 May 20, 2019
the Under Secretary of Health to report major adverse
personnel actions involving certain health care employees
to the National Practitioner Data Bank and to applicable
State licensing boards, S. 318, to authorize the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to furnish medically necessary trans-
portation for newborn children of certain women veterans,
S. 450, to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
carry out a pilot program to expedite the onboarding
process for new medical providers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, to reduce the duration of the hiring
process for such medical providers, S. 514, to amend title
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and serv-
ices provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, S. 524, to establish the Department of
Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee on Tribal and In-
dian Affairs, S. 711, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to expand eligibility for mental health services
from the Department of Veterans Affairs to include mem-
bers of the reserve components of the Armed Forces, S.
746, to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the accessibility of websites of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to individuals with disabil-
ities, S. 785, to improve mental health care provided by
the Department of Veterans Affairs, S. 805, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to improve the processing
of veterans benefits by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, to limit the authority of the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to recover overpayments made by the Department
and other amounts owed by veterans to the United States,
to improve the due process accorded veterans with respect
to such recovery, S. 850, to extend the authorization of
appropriations to the Department of Veterans Affairs for
purposes of awarding grants to veterans service organiza-
tions for the transportation of highly rural veterans, S.
857, to amend title 38, United States Code, to increase
the amount of special pension for Medal of Honor recipi-
ents, S. 980, to amend title 38, United States Code, to
improve the provision of services for homeless veterans, S.
1101, to ensure that only licensed health care providers
furnish disability examinations under a certain Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs pilot program for use of contract
physicians for disability examinations, S. 1154, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to establish an advisory
committee on the implementation by the Department of
Veterans Affairs of an electronic health record, an original
bill entitled, ‘‘Janey Ensminger Act of 2019’’, and an
original bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to ex-
tend the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
continue to pay educational assistance or subsistence al-
lowances to eligible persons when educational institutions
are temporarily closed, 2:30 p.m., SR–418.
Select Committee on Intelligence: May 21, closed business
meeting to consider pending intelligence matters; to be
immediately followed by a closed hearing to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters, 9:30 a.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: May 22, to hold hearings to
examine aging and disability in the 21st century, focus-
ing on how technology can help maintain health and
quality of life, 9:30 a.m., SD–562.
House Committees
Committee on Appropriations, May 22, Full Committee,
markup on the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020; and the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill,
FY 2020, 10:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
May 23, Subcommittee on the Departments of Trans-
portation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies, markup on the Departments of Transpor-
tation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, 8:30 a.m.,
2358–A Rayburn.
May 23, Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agen-
cies, markup on the Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, 10 a.m., 2362 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, May 22, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Key Design Components and Considerations
for Establishing a Single-Payer Health Care System’’, 10
a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, May 22, Sub-
committee on Higher Education and Workforce Invest-
ment, hearing entitled ‘‘Engines of Economic Mobility:
The Critical Role of Community Colleges, Historically
Black Colleges and Universities, and Minority-Serving In-
stitutions in Preparing Students for Success’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, May 22, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘LIFT America: Modernizing
Our Infrastructure for the Future’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
May 23, Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and
Commerce, hearing entitled ‘‘Summer Driving Dangers:
Exploring Ways to Protect Drivers and their Families’’,
10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
New Committee on Financial Services, May 22, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Annual Testimony of the
Treasury on the State of the International Financial Sys-
tem, Part II’’, 9 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, May 22, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Searching for Solutions in Syria: The
Trump Administration’s Strategy’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
May 22, Full Committee, markup on H.R. 2615, the
‘‘United States-Northern Triangle Enhanced Engagement
Act’’; H.R. 2744, the ‘‘USAID Branding Modernization
Act’’; H.R. 598, the ‘‘Georgia Support Act’’; H.R. 2140,
the ‘‘Preventing Child Marriage Act’’; H.R. 2023, the
‘‘Protect European Energy Security Act’’; H.R. 2046, the
‘‘Energy Diplomacy Act’’; H. Res. 129, condemning the
Government of Saudi Arabia’s continued detention and
alleged abuse of women’s rights activists; H. Res. 372,
expressing concern for the United States-Turkey alliance;
H. Res. 345, recognizing widening threats to freedoms of
the press and expression around the world, reaffirming
the centrality of a free and independent press to the
health of democracy, and reaffirming freedom of the press
as a priority of the United States, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, May 22, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of the Fiscal Year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D569
May 20, 2019
2020 Budget Request for the Department of Homeland
Security’’, 9:30 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, May 22, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 2820, the ‘‘Dream Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2821, the ‘‘American Promise Act of 2019’’; H.R. 549,
the ‘‘Venezuela TPS Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Natural Resources, May 22, Subcommittee
on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing on
H.R. 182, to extend the authorization for the Cape Cod
National Seashore Advisory Commission; H.R. 307, the
‘‘Preserving America’s Battlefields Act’’; H.R. 473, to au-
thorize the Every Word We Utter Monument to establish
a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and
its environs, and for other purposes; H.R. 1088, the
‘‘FIRST Act’’; H.R. 1130, the ‘‘Fort Pillow National Bat-
tlefield Park Study Act’’; H.R. 1179, the ‘‘African-Amer-
ican Burial Grounds Network Act’’; H.R. 1248, the
‘‘York River Wild and Scenic River Act of 2019’’; H.R.
1472, to rename the Homestead National Monument of
America near Beatrice, Nebraska, as the Homestead Na-
tional Historical Park; H.R. 1487, the ‘‘Santa Monica
Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Adjust-
ment Study Act’’; H.R. 1727, the ‘‘Complete America’s
Great Trails Act’’; H.R. 2369, the ‘‘Long Island Aviation
History Act’’; H.R. 2427, the ‘‘Chesapeake Bay Gateways
and Watertrails Network Reauthorization Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2490, to amend the National Trails System Act to
direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on
the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear Na-
tional Historic Trail, and for other purposes; H.R. 2525,
to establish the Steel Valley National Heritage Area in
the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio, and for other pur-
poses, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
May 22, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wild-
life, hearing entitled ‘‘Responding to the Global Assess-
ment Report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy
Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services’’, 10
a.m., 1324 Longworth.
May 23, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Insular
Areas Medicaid Cliff’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, May 22, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Facial Recognition Technology
(Part 1): Its Impact on our Civil Rights and Liberties’’,
10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
May 22, Subcommittee on Economic and Consumer
Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining For-Profit College
Oversight and Student Debt’’, 2 p.m., 2247 Rayburn.
May 22, Subcommittee on National Security Hearing,
hearing entitled ‘‘Securing U.S. Election Infrastructure
and Protecting Political Discourse’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, May 22, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Immigration and the Small Business
Workforce’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, May 22,
Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment,
hearing entitled ‘‘Policies, Recommendations, and Im-
pacts of the President’s Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Re-
quest’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
May 22, Subcommittee on Economic Development,
Public Buildings, and Emergency Management, hearing
entitled ‘‘Disaster Preparedness: DRRA Implementation
and FEMA Readiness’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, May 22, Subcommittee
on Health; and Subcommittee on Technology Moderniza-
tion, joint hearing entitled ‘‘MISSION Critical: Caring
for our Heroes’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
May 22, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions, hearing entitled ‘‘Improving the Department of
Veterans Affairs Effectiveness: Responding to Rec-
ommendations from Oversight Agencies’’, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, May 22, Subcommittee
on Trade, hearing entitled ‘‘Enforcement in the New
NAFTA’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, May 22, Full
Committee, business meeting on Committee Vote on En-
forcement Action regarding the Subpoena Issued by the
Committee to the Attorney General on May 8, 2019, for
Foreign Intelligence, Counterintelligence and Other Infor-
mation Related to the Special Counsel’s Investigation,
9:30 a.m., HVC–304. This meeting is closed.
May 23, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Mission
Imperative: Diversity and Inclusion in the Intelligence
Community’’, 5:45 p.m., HVC–304.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, May 23, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resilient
America’’, 9 a.m., 2247 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: May 22, to hold hearings to
examine the economic impacts of the 2020 Census and
business uses of Federal data, 2 p.m., 210, Cannon Build-
ing.
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: May 24,
to receive a briefing with the House Committee on Fi-
nancial Services on trade-based money laundering, 9:30
a.m., 2360, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D570 May 20, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, May 21
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Daniel P. Collins, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Daniel P.
Collins, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of Howard C. Nielson, Jr., of Utah,
to be United States District Judge for the District of
Utah.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, May 21
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Biggs, Andy, Ariz., E627
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E629
Brown, Anthony G., Md., E631
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E628
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E634
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E631
Duffy, Sean P., Wisc., E633
Estes, Ron, Kans., E632
Garamendi, John, Calif., E627
Grijalva, Raúl M., Ariz., E628, E629, E630, E632, E634
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E630
Higgins, Clay, La., E627
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E634, E634
Keating, William R., Mass., E627, E633
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E633
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E630
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E628, E632, E633
Pence, Greg, Ind., E631
Roby, Martha, Ala., E630
Smucker, Lloyd, Pa., E633
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E629
Taylor, Van, Tex., E627, E631, E634
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E633
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 May 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D20MY9.REC D20MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
