Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2721
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 2019 No. 46
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CARBAJAL).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 14, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable SALUD O.
CARBAJAL to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Merciful God, thank You for giving
us another day.
Your care and wisdom are shown to
us by the way You extend Your king-
dom into our world down to the present
day. Your word reveals every aspect of
Your saving plan. You accomplish Your
designed purpose in and through the
hearts of the faithful who respond to
You.
Today, convert our minds and hearts
that we may become the great Nation
You hope us to be.
Help the Members of this people’s
House to seek Your presence in the
midst of their busy lives. Animate
them with Your Spirit, and help them
to perform their appointed tasks to
come to solutions that will redound to
the benefit of our Nation.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. HARDER of California. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I
demand a vote on agreeing to the
Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. HARDER of California. Mr.
Speaker, I object to the vote on the
ground that a quorum is not present
and make the point of order that a
quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from California (Mr. HARD-
ER) come forward and lead the House in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. HARDER of California led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S PROPOSED
BUDGET
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Mr.
Speaker, this week, the administration
released its proposed budget, and I am
here to share what those budget cuts
actually mean for the farmers in my
home, California’s Central Valley.
Imagine you are an almond farmer in
the Central Valley. Maybe your farm
has been a part of the family for mul-
tiple generations. Over the past 5
years, you have seen your net farm in-
come has dropped by half, the largest
drop since the Great Depression.
Then you wake up this week and hear
that the administration, which prom-
ised to be in your corner, wants to cut
billions of dollars from programs that
help you and your family put food on
tables across the country:
Programs like crop insurance so if
you lose your crops from flooding or
from fires your farm stays afloat.
Under this budget, crop insurance is
cut by $26 billion;
Programs like drought relief to make
up for damaged properties during arid
seasons. Well, under this budget
drought relief is cut by $8 billion.
Or imagine you live in a district like
mine where water management and
storage are essential. Well, under this
budget, 30 percent of the Army Corps of
Engineers’ budget is cut, putting all
those structures at risk.
f
GOOD NEWS ABOUT THE OPIOID
EPIDEMIC
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to address an issue that impacts
all our congressional districts and com-
munities: the opioid crisis.
For years now, it seems that the only
news about it has been bad news: 70,000
overdose deaths in 2017, widespread im-
portation of deadly drugs like fentanyl,
families devastated, lives wasted.
But now, finally, some good news to
report. In my district, specifically, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:36 Mar 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.000 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2722 March 14, 2019
Hamilton County, we have had a 20 per-
cent decrease in opioid deaths in the
first half of 2018.
The decline is the result of multiple
prevention efforts, a task force of first
responders, law enforcement, health of-
ficials, and community leaders all
working together to tackle this deadly
epidemic. Their efforts are truly saving
lives in our community.
Most importantly, their successes
can be used as a model to help save
thousands and thousands of lives
across the country. And I can’t think
of any better news than that.
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S BUDGET
(Mr. CARBAJAL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, this
week the President broke his promise
to America’s seniors that he would not
cut Medicare or Social Security bene-
fits.
After Republicans in Congress passed
a massive tax giveaway for corpora-
tions and the wealthiest 1 percent, the
President now wants to balance the
budget on the backs of our seniors and
students.
This budget cuts $2 trillion from
Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Secu-
rity over the next 10 years, programs
that our seniors have paid into for dec-
ades.
As students face a $1 trillion student
loan debt crisis, Trump’s budget pushes
affordable college further out of reach
by cutting $207 billion from student
loan programs.
Thankfully, Americans voted over-
whelmingly last election to place a
check on this President by sending a
new Democratic majority to Congress,
and they can rest assured knowing that
we will not consider the President’s
cruel budget cuts in this House.
f
GOVERNMENT TRANSPARENCY
(Mr. COLLINS of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I have thus far released the inter-
view transcripts of two individuals at
the heart of the 2016 DOJ investiga-
tions controversy. Today, I am releas-
ing a third.
As I have said before, I believe the
American people deserve transparency
and deserve to know what transpired at
the highest echelons of the FBI during
this tumultuous time for the Bureau.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I request the
link, dougcollins.house.gov/strzok be
placed into the RECORD so that the
American people can review the tran-
script of Peter Strzok.
Out of an abundance of caution, this
transcript has a limited number of nar-
rowly tailored redactions relating only
to confidential sources and methods,
nonpublic information about ongoing
investigations and nonmaterial per-
sonal information.
I will continue to work to release as
many transcripts as possible. The
American people deserve transparency
and the truth.
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S PROPOSED
BUDGET CUTS
(Mr. O’HALLERAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to express my deep concerns
over the proposed budget cuts made in
the President’s budget and the sky-
rocketing deficits that will leave our
children and grandchildren with tril-
lions more in debt.
While it is imperative that we rein in
wasteful government spending and get
our national debt under control, we
cannot do so at the expense of the men
and women living in rural and Tribal
communities and our seniors.
This budget proposal slashes trillions
from healthcare programs that mil-
lions of seniors, working families, and
veterans rely on every day. Addition-
ally, it would cut infrastructure pro-
grams and funding for critical projects
in rural America and hurt farming
families.
This is not how we are going to curb
spending and get our fiscal house in
order. We need to act now to pass a bi-
partisan budget that addresses the debt
crisis and invests in the future of our
Nation.
f
THANKING THE ADMINISTRATION
FOR DISASTER RELIEF IN
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, 25
months ago, we saw the crisis in
Oroville, California, of the broken
spillway at Oroville Dam, belonging to
the State water project. Thankfully,
emergency services were able to come
in and, as soon as possible, get things
functioning once again for the safety of
the flood control as well as the storage
and the hydroelectricity that is pro-
duced there.
We had much help that came from
FEMA; and I want to say thank you to
the folks at FEMA, this administra-
tion, and Secretary Nielsen for being
on the spot in helping with this res-
toration process. $333 million have
flowed to helping the crisis at the spill-
way be restored to a working spillway.
Now, there are those who are clam-
oring for even more money, but that
lies on the backs of the State of Cali-
fornia and the DWR for the extra
money, bringing it up to $1.1 billion.
The State of California claims it is in
a surplus situation, and it needs to pay
its own bills and put the money aside
to take care of the project—not the
other 49 States—for the nonemergency
part of the project.
So, again, thanks to FEMA for their
attention to this, as well as the wild-
fire situation we had in Paradise, Cali-
fornia, for helping us in northern Cali-
fornia.
f
SUPPORTING THE DREAM AND
PROMISE ACT
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to express my strong and un-
wavering support for H.R. 5, the Dream
and Promise Act.
I am proud to represent the 29th Con-
gressional District of Texas. One of the
things I am most proud of is the strong
and vibrant immigration communities
that reside in our district, where thou-
sands of DACA, TPS, and DED recipi-
ents live, work, and play beside us as
neighbors and colleagues. If Dreamers
were forced to leave our district tomor-
row, we would lose over $400 million of
GDP.
Our immigration policies put politics
over people, which often hurt our chil-
dren who are in constant fear of being
separated and uprooted from the coun-
try they call their own. This is wrong
for our economy. This is wrong for our
communities. This is wrong for our
country.
It is time that we pass a permanent
solution for these vital members of our
society, which is why I urge all my col-
leagues to support H.R. 5.
f
WE HAVE GOT TO KNOW IF OUR
PRESIDENT IS A CROOK
(Mr. CASTEN of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
just last week we passed H.R. 1, the For
the People Act, with its worthy aim: to
ensure that this government represents
the voices of all Americans and not
just the privileged and powerful.
Now, among the many reforms in
H.R. 1, one would require that can-
didates for President and Vice Presi-
dent must disclose their tax returns.
Giving voters personal tax information
has been a tradition of Presidents since
1973, when Richard Nixon, of all people,
released his returns and said: ‘‘People
have got to know whether or not their
President is a crook.’’ On that issue, I
agree with Mr. Nixon.
Now, that seems to be the thinking
of my home State legislature, too,
which has been working on legislation
that would require any Presidential or
Vice Presidential candidate who wants
to be on the ballot in Illinois to release
their tax returns. They think that the
people have the right to know the true
character of the person who will sit in
the White House.
Mr. Speaker, we have got to know if
our President is a crook. I would like
to see the Senate take up this bill.
And if they are unable to follow in
the great leadership of this House, I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:36 Mar 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.003 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2723
March 14, 2019
hope that other States will follow the
great leadership of the State of Illi-
nois.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). Members are reminded
to refrain from engaging in personal-
ities toward the President.
f
EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS
THAT THE REPORT OF SPECIAL
COUNSEL MUELLER SHOULD BE
MADE AVAILABLE TO THE PUB-
LIC AND TO CONGRESS
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 208, I call up the
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 24)
expressing the sense of Congress that
the report of Special Counsel Mueller
should be made available to the public
and to Congress, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the con-
current resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 208, the
amendments to the concurrent resolu-
tion and the preamble, printed in
House Report 116–17, are agreed to, and
the concurrent resolution, as amended,
is considered read.
The text of the concurrent resolu-
tion, as amended, is as follows:
H. CON. RES. 24
Whereas, on January 6, 2017, the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence released a re-
port concluding that ‘‘Russian President Vladi-
mir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016
aimed at the US presidential election’’, that the
goal of this campaign was ‘‘to undermine public
faith in the US democratic process’’, and that
‘‘Putin and the Russian Government developed
a clear preference for President-elect Trump’’;
Whereas, on March 20, 2017, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) testi-
fied that he was authorized by the Department
of Justice to confirm that the FBI is inves-
tigating whether ‘‘there was any coordination’’
between individuals associated with the Trump
presidential campaign and the Russian Govern-
ment;
Whereas part 600 of title 28, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on March 7, 2019 (in
this resolution referred to as ‘‘Special Counsel
Regulations’’), provides for the appointment of
a Special Counsel when the Attorney General or
Acting Attorney General ‘‘determines that crimi-
nal investigation of a person or matter is war-
ranted and—(a) That investigation . . . by a
United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Di-
vision of the Department of Justice would
present a conflict of interest for the Department
or other extraordinary circumstances; and (b)
That under the circumstances, it would be in
the public interest to appoint an outside Special
Counsel to assume responsibility for the mat-
ter’’;
Whereas the Special Counsel Regulations call
for any individual named as Special Counsel to
be a ‘‘lawyer with a reputation for integrity and
impartial decision making and with appropriate
experience to ensure that both the investigation
will be conducted ably, expeditiously and thor-
oughly, and that investigative and prosecutorial
decisions will be supported by an informed un-
derstanding of the criminal law and Department
of Justice policies’’;
Whereas, on May 17, 2017, the Acting Attor-
ney General appointed former FBI Director Rob-
ert S. Mueller III to serve as Special Counsel ‘‘to
ensure a full and thorough investigation of the
Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the
2016 presidential election’’, including an exam-
ination of ‘‘any links and/or coordination be-
tween the Russian government and individuals
associated with the campaign of President Don-
ald Trump’’, ‘‘any matters that arose or may
arise directly from the investigation’’, and ‘‘any
other matters within the scope of 28 C.F.R.
600.4(a)’’;
Whereas the Acting Attorney General ex-
plained that he had appointed Special Counsel
Mueller because he ‘‘determined that it is in the
public interest . . . to . . . appoint a Special
Counsel to assume responsibility for this matter
. . . based upon the unique circumstances, the
public interest requires [him] to place this inves-
tigation under the authority of a person who ex-
ercises a degree of independence from the nor-
mal chain of command . . . [and that] a Special
Counsel is necessary in order for the American
people to have full confidence in the outcome.
Our nation is grounded on the rule of law, and
the public must be assured that government offi-
cials administer the law fairly’’;
Whereas Special Counsel Mueller has pre-
viously served in the Department of Justice as a
prosecutor, United States Attorney, and Direc-
tor of the FBI under both Republican and
Democratic administrations, and his selection as
the Special Counsel elicited bipartisan praise
recognizing his reputation for competence, fair-
ness, and nonpartisanship;
Whereas the Special Counsel’s investigation
has thus far resulted in the public indictment of
34 individuals and 3 companies, 7 guilty pleas,
and 1 conviction following a jury trial;
Whereas the Special Counsel Regulations pro-
vide that ‘‘[a]t the conclusion of the Special
Counsel’s work, he or she shall provide the At-
torney General with a confidential report ex-
plaining the prosecution or declination decisions
reached by the Special Counsel’’;
Whereas, on January 15, 2019, at his con-
firmation hearing before the Senate Committee
on the Judiciary, Attorney General William
Barr testified ‘‘I . . . believe it is very important
that the public and Congress be informed of the
results of the special counsel’s work. For that
reason, my goal will be to provide as much
transparency as I can consistent with the law’’;
Whereas, on February 22, 2019, the chairs of
six committees of the House of Representatives
wrote to Attorney General Barr to inform him of
their expectation that he will make Special
Counsel Mueller’s report public ‘‘to the max-
imum extent permitted by law’’;
Whereas transparency is consistent with the
overall purpose and intent of the Special Coun-
sel Regulations and the accompanying Depart-
ment of Justice commentary, which notes the im-
portance of ‘‘ensur[ing] congressional and pub-
lic confidence in the integrity of the process’’;
Whereas the need for transparency is most
pronounced with regard to investigations that
involve the President or individuals associated
with his campaign as the President is respon-
sible for the appointment of the senior leader-
ship of the Department of Justice;
Whereas the Department of Justice’s United
States Attorney’s Manual indicates that in pub-
lic filings and proceedings, prosecutors ‘‘should
remain sensitive to the privacy and reputation
interests of uncharged third-parties’’, that is, of
persons who the Department considers may be,
but are not yet criminally charged;
Whereas this general nonstatutory policy of
sensitivity to the ‘‘interests of uncharged third-
parties’’ should be inapplicable to a sitting
President because the Department of Justice’s
Office of Legal Counsel has previously written
that ‘‘a sitting President is constitutionally im-
mune from indictment and criminal prosecu-
tion’’;
Whereas the Department of Justice has on nu-
merous recent occasions provided investigatory
information to Congress and the public con-
cerning investigations of high-level public offi-
cials in both pending and closed cases;
Whereas in the only other instance where a
Special Counsel was appointed under the Spe-
cial Counsel Regulations (in 1999, concerning
the 1993 confrontation in Waco, Texas), both the
interim and final reports, including findings,
provided by the Special Counsel were released to
the public by the Attorney General; and
Whereas the allegations at the center of Spe-
cial Counsel Mueller’s investigation strike at the
core of our democracy, and there is an over-
whelming public interest in releasing the Special
Counsel’s report to ensure public confidence in
both the process and the result of the investiga-
tion: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the
Senate concurring), That Congress—
(1) calls for the public release of any report,
including findings, Special Counsel Mueller pro-
vides to the Attorney General, except to the ex-
tent the public disclosure of any portion thereof
is expressly prohibited by law; and
(2) calls for the full release to Congress of any
report, including findings, Special Counsel
Mueller provides to the Attorney General.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER)
and the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
COLLINS) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
f
b 0915
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H. Con.
Res. 24.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H. Con. Res. 24 ex-
presses the sense of Congress that any
report Special Counsel Robert Mueller
delivers to the Attorney General
should be released to the public and to
Congress. This concurrent resolution is
important for several reasons.
First, transparency is fundamental
to the special counsel process, espe-
cially when dealing with matters of na-
tional security involving the President.
In January 2017, the U.S. intelligence
community unanimously reported that
‘‘Russian President Vladimir Putin or-
dered an influence campaign in 2016
aimed at the U.S. Presidential elec-
tion’’ and that ‘‘Putin and the Russian
Government developed a clear pref-
erence for President-elect Trump.’’ As
a result of the importance of this
charge and the clear conflict of inter-
est in a matter involving the Presi-
dent, Robert Mueller was appointed as
special counsel by the Acting Attorney
General ‘‘in order for the American
people to have full confidence in the
outcome.’’
This is why in the only other in-
stance involving the appointment of a
special counsel under the regulations,
concerning the Waco tragedy, the spe-
cial counsel’s report was released in
full by the Attorney General.
Second, this resolution is critical be-
cause of the many questions and criti-
cisms of the investigation raised by the
President and his administration. It is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.004 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2724 March 14, 2019
important that Congress stand up for
the principle of full transparency at a
time when the President has publicly
attacked the Russian investigation
more than 1,100 times and counting.
Among other things, the President has
repeatedly referred to the investiga-
tion as a ‘‘witch hunt’’ and called it a
‘‘hoax,’’ ‘‘rigged,’’ and a ‘‘scam.’’
This resolution is also needed be-
cause high-ranking DOJ officials have
indicated that they may not release in-
formation about individuals who are
not indicted. Deputy Attorney General
Rosenstein stated last month that ‘‘if
we aren’t prepared to prove our case
beyond a reasonable doubt in court,
then we have no business making alle-
gations against American citizens.’’
This normally salutary policy must
not apply in the event the Department
adheres to its policy that it cannot in-
dict a sitting President. To maintain
that a sitting President cannot be in-
dicted no matter how much evidence
there is because he is a sitting Presi-
dent, and then to withhold evidence of
wrongdoing from Congress because the
President cannot be charged, is to con-
vert DOJ policy into the means for a
coverup.
Third, releasing the Mueller report,
even in its entirety, does not absolve
the Department of Justice of its obliga-
tion to provide Congress with the un-
derlying evidence uncovered by the
special counsel. This expectation is
well grounded in precedent set by the
Department just in the last Congress in
connection with three Republican-led
investigations into Hillary Clinton’s
emails, the dismissal of former FBI
Acting Director McCabe, and allega-
tions of bias concerning the Russian in-
vestigation.
With respect to the investigation in-
volving Secretary Clinton’s emails,
this included the Department of Jus-
tice releasing to Congress more than
880,000 pages of documents regarding
the FBI’s decisionmaking, identifying
to Congress the names of career offi-
cials involved in the charging decision,
identifying to Congress specific court
cases relied on in the charging deci-
sion, and making numerous DOJ and
FBI personnel available to Congress for
transcribed interviews.
With respect to the dismissal of
former Acting Director McCabe, this
included releasing to Congress all doc-
uments relied on by the Office of Pro-
fessional Responsibility in making its
decision.
With respect to claims of bias in the
Russian investigation, this included
not only releasing to the public an oth-
erwise classified foreign intelligence
application, but also releasing to Con-
gress: one, all underlying documents
and communications involving the
FISA applications; two, four memos de-
tailing the former FBI Director’s com-
munications with the President; three,
materials pertaining to classified brief-
ings involving the Trump and Clinton
Presidential campaigns; and four, mak-
ing even more DOJ and FBI officials
available for a total of 21 transcribed
interviews and hearings.
These precedents make clear the ob-
ligation of the Department of Justice
to release all evidence with respect to
the Russian investigation.
A vote for this resolution will send a
clear signal to both the American peo-
ple and to the Department of Justice
that Congress believes transparency is
a fundamental principle necessary to
ensure that government remains ac-
countable to the public.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to join me in
supporting this commonsense resolu-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I intend to support this
resolution, but as a matter of time and
coming through this week, I have 30
minutes, so I might as well talk about
a resolution that is a restatement of
the regulation. I want to provide some
background on the special counsel’s
regulations.
Special Counsel Mueller is operating
under a different regulatory framework
from the independent counsel statute
that gave us the Starr report.
The Clinton administration Justice
Department, which was led by Attor-
ney General Janet Reno, Deputy Attor-
ney General Eric Holder, and Neal
Katyal, drafted the special counsel reg-
ulations in effect today. They estab-
lished a regulatory framework that
gives the Attorney General flexibility.
Attorney General Barr has a few op-
tions when he receives the information
from Mr. Mueller. He can give Congress
the complete report or a summary, or
he can simply tell Congress that the
Mueller investigation has concluded.
The Clinton administration regula-
tions do not require a full report to
Congress. However, during his con-
firmation, Attorney General Barr said
he wants to be ‘‘transparent’’ with Con-
gress and the public ‘‘consistent with
the rules and the law.’’ I have no rea-
son to think Attorney General Barr
would back away from those state-
ments he made before the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee.
Mr. Speaker, I believe he is truthful
and will be truthful to his word to
make as much public as he possibly
can.
The American people should not ex-
pect another Starr report. The Clinton
Justice Department made sure another
President would not have salacious sto-
ries aired before the American people.
Janet Reno herself testified before
Congress in 1999 that it was a bad idea
for independent counsels to publish
final reports.
Many Members of the Democratic
majority in Congress today voted
against the public release of materials
related to the Starr report.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a narrative related to a roll call vote
from the 105th Congress. For the
RECORD, I note that the following
Democratic Members voted against the
release of the Starr materials: Speaker
PELOSI, Majority Whip CLYBURN, Chair-
man NADLER, Chairman CUMMINGS,
Chairman ENGEL, Chairman WATERS,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. MARKEY, Chair
LOFGREN, and Chairman NEAL, among
others.
It is amazing that we have now
changed our perspective on that, in
light of a Republican in the White
House.
Again, this resolution simply, basi-
cally, restates the regulations that are
currently in place that were written
under the Clinton Department of Jus-
tice. It is going to go forward. The new
Attorney General has said he wants to
make as much public to the American
people as he legally can.
I believe in transparency. I believe
that there are many other things we
could be working on, but I am happy to
support a resolution that is actually
just a restatement of the regulatory
burden already placed upon the Attor-
ney General.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. WATERS), the distinguished
chairwoman of the Financial Services
Committee.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman NADLER for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.
Con. Res. 24, which expresses the sense
of Congress that the report of Special
Counsel Robert Mueller should be
available to the public and to Congress.
Special Counsel Mueller has been ap-
pointed to ensure a full and thorough
investigation of the Russian Govern-
ment’s efforts to interfere in the 2016
Presidential election and to examine
any links and/or coordination between
the Russian Government and individ-
uals associated with the campaign of
President Donald Trump.
He has also been appointed with the
authority to investigate and prosecute
Federal crimes committed in the
course of and with the intent to inter-
fere with the investigation, including
perjury, obstruction of justice, destruc-
tion of evidence, and intimidation of
witnesses.
The gravity and magnitude of this in-
vestigation, given that it goes straight
to the heart of our democracy and in-
volves the President of the United
States, requires the public release of
the special counsel’s findings.
This is an investigation that affects
each and every American, whether it
implicates or exonerates the President.
Therefore, it must be brought to light
so that the American people can see for
themselves the findings and determina-
tions made by an objective, impartial
investigator who has a reputation for
integrity.
In addition, the report will provide
valuable insight and information for
the important investigations being un-
dertaken in the House, including the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:36 Mar 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.006 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2725
March 14, 2019
investigation being conducted by the
Committee on Financial Services on
money laundering and the President’s
finances.
Special Counsel Mueller has been ap-
propriately deliberate and discreet in
conducting this investigation. It is
clear from the manner in which the
special counsel has approached this in-
vestigation that he has taken it seri-
ously and has not conducted what
President Trump refers to as a ‘‘witch
hunt.’’
So far, the special counsel’s inves-
tigation has resulted in 199 criminal
charges, 37 indictments or guilty pleas,
and five prison sentences.
Whatever his prosecutorial decisions
may be going forward, it is in the
public’s interest to be given full trans-
parency into those decisions and the
explanations behind them.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SCHIFF), the distinguished
chair of the Intelligence Committee.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) for yielding and for his spon-
sorship of this important legislation. I
rise in strong support.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller was
appointed in May 2017 to oversee the
ongoing criminal and counterintel-
ligence investigation into Russia’s in-
terference in the 2016 election. Over the
nearly 2 years since his appointment,
the special counsel has indicted 34 indi-
viduals and three companies, and se-
cured guilty pleas or convictions from
eight individuals.
We do not know when the special
counsel will complete his work, but
there are indications that it could
occur in the near future.
Notwithstanding the overwhelming
public interest in the special counsel’s
report and findings, I am deeply con-
cerned that Attorney General Barr
may attempt to withhold Mueller’s full
report from the public and the under-
lying evidence from Congress and could
instead seek to provide only a
CliffsNotes version of the report to
Congress.
As this resolution makes clear, Con-
gress will not accept any attempt by
Mr. Barr or the President to bury the
report and the findings of the special
counsel. Withholding this information
would be untenable in light of the in-
tense public interest and need for
transparency, but particularly so when
the Department has provided volumi-
nous production to Congress at the de-
mand of the previous majority, includ-
ing sensitive FISA materials and other
classified and law enforcement-sen-
sitive materials related to the Mueller
investigation and the Clinton email in-
vestigation.
Last year, I repeatedly warned De-
partment leadership that, in providing
these materials to Congress, they were
establishing a precedent and one that
they would have to live with in the fu-
ture. They did so anyway.
While anonymous sources at the De-
partment have attempted to publicly
blame James Comey for the provision
of this information, in fact, the Depart-
ment has turned over more than 880,000
pages of documents from the Clinton
email investigation to Congress, all of
them—all of them—pursuant to con-
gressional subpoenas issued after
James Comey was fired. They have pro-
duced highly sensitive records, includ-
ing FISA materials, directly related to
ongoing investigations at the core of
the special counsel’s charter.
To be sure, something far more seri-
ous than precedent is at stake. Disclo-
sure is uniquely imperative here be-
cause the special counsel reportedly is
investigating whether the President
himself engaged in misconduct. If the
special counsel has indeed uncovered
evidence of serious wrongdoing on the
President’s part, then that evidence
must be furnished to Congress and ulti-
mately to the American people.
Withholding the full report or under-
lying evidence would only heighten
concerns over a coverup or a pernicious
or partisan double standard.
The special counsel’s regulations
were written, above all, to ensure pub-
lic confidence in the fair and impartial
administration of justice. That charge
would be entirely vitiated by an at-
tempt to cover up or conceal Special
Counsel Mueller’s findings and report,
whatever they may be and whenever
they are finalized.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members of both
parties to join me in supporting this
resolution and to make clear that any-
thing less than full transparency is un-
acceptable.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. TED LIEU), a member of
the Judiciary Committee.
b 0930
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Chairman NADLER for
his leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
resolution requesting that Special
Counsel Mueller’s report be made
available to the public.
There are three reasons why this
must happen.
First, the taxpayers paid for this re-
port. The American people funded this
investigation. They have a right to see
the contents of the report of the inves-
tigation.
Second, internal bureaucratic De-
partment of Justice policies do not
apply to Congress, especially on mat-
ters of national importance.
And third, if we don’t get this report,
it could amount to a cover-up.
The United States Constitution does
not say that a sitting President cannot
be indicted. There is nothing in the
Constitution that would prevent that.
Unfortunately, the Department of
Justice has taken the policy position
that they are not going to indict a sit-
ting President, which means that the
only institution that can hold the
President accountable is Congress. If
we do not get this information, we can-
not effectively do our jobs, we cannot
hold the President accountable, and it
is something that the American public
wants to see.
Over 87 percent of respondents in a
recent poll say that this report should
be made available to Congress and to
the American public. If the Depart-
ment of Justice does not do this, we all
need to ask: What are they trying to
hide?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. NEGUSE), a member of the Ju-
diciary Committee.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for his leadership and for
introducing this incredibly important
resolution.
Mr. Speaker, the investigation cur-
rently under way by Special Counsel
Robert Mueller is incredibly impor-
tant: an open investigation into incred-
ibly serious allegations, potential ob-
struction of justice, corruption, and
possible links of coordination between
President Trump’s Presidential cam-
paign and the Russian Government, ef-
forts to meddle in our democratic proc-
ess, and mislead and manipulate Amer-
ican voters.
The allegations at the center of this
investigation, as I said, are serious,
they are credible, and they are unprec-
edented. With 37 indictments and
counting, it is of paramount impor-
tance that the special counsel’s report
and the underlying evidence be made
public for the sake of transparency and
trust in our government.
As a nation, as a Congress, and as a
Republic, we need to know all of the
facts about this investigation and what
unfolded between players in the Presi-
dent’s campaign and Russia in 2016. We
must protect and respect the work of
Special Counsel Mueller, and his report
must be released, in full, for the Con-
gress and for the American people to
see.
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank the
chairman for introducing this resolu-
tion, and I encourage my colleagues to
support it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. COHEN), the distinguished
chairman of the Subcommittee on Con-
stitution, Civil Rights and Civil Lib-
erties.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, what we
are discussing is one of the most im-
portant documents that will ever be
produced and given, potentially, to
Congress for the American people in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:36 Mar 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.007 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2726 March 14, 2019
our modern history: a question of
whether or not this administration was
involved with the Russian Government,
our number one foreign enemy, in in-
fluencing the outcome of our Presi-
dential election, something tanta-
mount to treason.
The report needs to be made public
because the American people have a
right to know. The American people, as
Ronald Reagan, to paraphrase, said: I
paid for this microphone, the American
people paid for this report, they paid
for the special counsel, they deserve to
see the fruits of his work and whether
or not, as Richard Nixon said, their
President is a crook, they need to
know that.
Unfortunately, as I sit here listening
to this discussion, I feel like I am
thrown back into a time in the 1970s—
I think it was 1977, somewhere around
there—in Kinshasa, Zaire, not in the
Washington, D.C. capitol. It is the Mu-
hammad Ali-George Foreman fight,
and the other side, the Republicans,
are playing the role of Muhammad Ali.
Not the ‘‘float like a butterfly, sting
like a bee’’ Muhammad Ali, but the
rope-a-dope, sit back, take the
punches, let them swing, let them hit
you, because they know that eventu-
ally they will wear themselves out and
they know the outcome, because the
fix is in.
There is a reason why the Attorney
General was picked by this President,
and we will soon find out. But we need
to pass this resolution and show the
American people that Congress is on
the side of transparency and are releas-
ing this report and letting the Amer-
ican public, who paid for this report,
know the results of it and know what
needs to happen to protect our democ-
racy and the rule of law.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are, again, reminded that they
should refrain from engaging in person-
alities toward the President.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, how about engaging in personalities
against the sitting Attorney General?
You are saying that he was appointed
for a reason.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Is it not
also directed at the House to not also
impugn the integrity and the character
of a sitting Cabinet member?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. At this
time, the gentleman from Georgia is
advised that the Chair will not issue an
advisory opinion.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I wouldn’t
want to do it either, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will not offer an advisory opin-
ion.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Offer? Can
you offer it? You said you were able to
offer an advisory opinion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will once again advise that the
rule requires Members to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue my parliamentary in-
quiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I made a
parliamentary inquiry concerning a
Cabinet member, not the President. I
understand your advisory opinion
against the President. I fully agree
with it. I am asking about a member of
the Cabinet.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would advise that the rule does
not extend to a member of the Cabinet.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Wow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Those
are the rules of the House. The gen-
tleman is advised.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Wow.
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for enlight-
ening us on that. It is okay, basically,
if you impugn the integrity of a sitting
member of the Cabinet. I guess we just
learned something new today. That is
encouraging. As far as Members of the
House, I get that it is not in the rules,
but it also shouldn’t be a part of this
debate.
This is a simple resolution. It simply
restates the regulation. Don’t make it
any more or any less than what it is.
That is why we are here. We are going
to approve this, we are going to vote
for it, but let’s not make it any more
than what it is. Let’s continue on so we
can get a vote, everybody can go home,
and maybe we will come back and actu-
ally vote on legislation that actually
matters.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL), a member of the Judiciary
Committee.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Con. Res. 24, to ex-
press the sense of Congress that Spe-
cial Counsel Mueller’s report be made
available to the American people and
to Congress. We cannot impugn the in-
tegrity of the American people by
keeping this report silenced.
For nearly 2 years, Special Counsel
Robert Mueller and his team have in-
vestigated serious and credible allega-
tions about obstruction of justice and
collusion at the highest levels of our
government. To date, Mr. Speaker, the
investigation has led to the public in-
dictment of three companies and 34 in-
dividuals, including the indictment of
President Trump’s former campaign
manager and personal lawyer, seven
guilty pleas, and one conviction fol-
lowing a jury trial. The allegations
range from election interference, to
lying to the FBI, to conspiracy to de-
fraud the United States.
Mr. Speaker, this should not be a Re-
publican or a Democratic issue. I hope
that my colleagues on the other side
will understand that there should be
nothing to hide from the American
people about this investigation, a spe-
cial counsel’s investigation into wheth-
er there was interference in our elec-
tions.
If my Republican colleagues have
nothing to fear from this report, if
they are willing to stand up for the
Constitution, if they are willing to
stand up for the American people and
put that Constitution over party, over
any individual, including the one that
sits in the White House, then they, too,
will join us in voting unanimously for
this resolution.
It is a big deal for the American peo-
ple to maintain trust in our democracy
and in our government. They have to
know the results of the special coun-
sel’s report. This is, again, an Amer-
ican issue. It is about doing our con-
stitutional duty to protect our democ-
racy.
I look forward, Mr. Speaker, to hav-
ing a unanimous vote on this resolu-
tion, passing it through and making it
clear that we have nothing to hide. It
is our duty to the American people.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I don’t know, maybe I need to make
the talking points to the other side
clear. I agreed on Monday that I was
voting for this. We are not opposing
this, because it is simply a restatement
of the regulation. I know that it is
fashionable to think that we are not.
So, again, I am sorry, I could have
maybe made the talking points more
clear at Rules that I was voting for
this so we could have saved extra time
on some of the discussion here.
Mr. Speaker, again, we will continue
to go through this, and, at this point, I
will continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. DOGGETT), the sponsor of this leg-
islation to ensure that the work of the
special counsel is not suppressed and
will offer valuable assistance on to-
day’s resolution.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for his work on this.
Mr. Speaker, the relentless, baseless
attacks on an American patriot, Rob-
ert Mueller, and his team, have moved
us ever so closer to a constitutional
crisis. Just as we cannot yield to
Trump’s attempt to discredit this dis-
tinguished team of legal experts, nei-
ther can we let them bury the results
of this taxpayer-funded investigation.
Having nothing to fear means having
nothing to hide. Those who seek to
hide this report, obviously, do not be-
lieve that the truth will set them free.
Rather, as it has for so many of Mr.
Trump’s sleazy cohorts, they feel that
the truth will lock them up. So many
lies, so much daily deceit. Already so
much evidence of collusion and ob-
struction and, from the organization’s
own former lawyer, evidence of an ap-
parent criminal enterprise that bears
the name of the Trump organization.
If it is a witch hunt, Mr. President, it
has more witches than a Mar-a-Lago
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:36 Mar 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.009 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2727
March 14, 2019
Halloween party. And your witches’
brew seems to have cast a spell over
many Members of this Congress who
find themselves locked in continuing
silence or wishy-washy efforts to ig-
nore and bolster your floundering Pres-
idency.
Today’s resolution says to President
Trump, who has shown some consistent
disregard for the rule of law: You can-
not seize and secret evidence of con-
duct that others need to see. Let the
taxpayers see the results of the inves-
tigation of the wrongdoing, which their
dollars have rightly funded.
Our congressional duty is to enforce
the borders, to be Border Patrol people,
to see that this President, who is will-
ing to cross every line, every constitu-
tional boundary, to see that he is con-
tained within the borders of the Con-
stitution. For the rule of law to stand,
the administration cannot be allowed
to sit on the special counsel’s report.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the
resolution.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, how
much time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 11 minutes
remaining.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, how much time do I have remain-
ing?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Georgia has 261⁄2 minutes
remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. HIMES).
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from New York for yielding.
And I also thank the ranking member.
I very much appreciate his comments
that he will support this concurrent
resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I will just observe, as a
member of the Intelligence Committee,
that we have seen our politics twisted
into almost unrecognizable form by the
unprecedented attacks of the President
on the Department of Justice, on the
FBI, on the investigation as a whole.
This report must see the light of day
and must be made available to the
American public for a catharsis that
will allow us to start with the facts, to
understand what happened and to re-
build the faith that the American peo-
ple did and should have in the Depart-
ment of Justice, in the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and in the govern-
ment in general.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of Congress, in strong, bipartisan fash-
ion, passing this bill so that the Amer-
ican people will understand that the
truth will be out there and it will help
fix our politics.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE),
a member of the Judiciary Committee.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman very much for
yielding.
I, too, add my appreciation to Mr.
COLLINS’ eagerness to adhere to what I
think is an appropriate policy that re-
asserts the article I authority, if you
will, of the Congress. And I think it is
important for my colleagues to recog-
nize that Americans are wondering.
They are wondering. They have heard
over and over again of Russian collu-
sion. They have heard the factual affir-
mation that the Russians did interfere
with the 2016 election and tried to
interfere with the 2018 election. There-
fore, it is important for them, in their
concern, to be informed. They are tax-
payers. We say this all the time.
b 0945
And it is important to note that,
through this investigation, the Na-
tional Security Advisor and former for-
eign policy advisor and many others
have gone to court because of Mr.
Mueller.
It is indeed important to know that
we have learned much because of his
report, but we have not learned all.
And we must overcome Attorney Gen-
eral Barr’s hesitation, because the
American people have made the point.
The point is that 68 percent of them
say that they would like to see this re-
port.
Now, we know that it has been ban-
died around that we cannot indict a
President. This is not about indicting a
President. But assuming, arguendo,
that this regulation is correct, that
someone thinks that that is constant
law and the President cannot be sub-
jected to criminal process and, there-
fore, cannot and should not be indicted,
it is a logical fallacy to say that be-
cause he cannot be indicted by virtue
of his office and because it is the Jus-
tice Department’s regulation not to re-
veal information about unindicted par-
ties and individuals.
The Justice Department cannot re-
veal any information or potential
wrongdoing by the President and not
reveal any information to the body
that possesses the constitutional re-
sponsibility for holding this President
accountable.
So let us follow good policy. Even the
words of Attorney General Barr that
recognizes that the DOJ’s purpose is to
release investigations in the public in-
terest. This is in the public interest.
Mr. Speaker, I would suggest to all
that we do this in a bipartisan way to
give to the American people what they
deserve and what they want.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the
Committee on Judiciary, which has oversight
of the Department of Justice, and as a Senior
Member of the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, which has oversight over our election se-
curity infrastructure, I rise in strong support of
H. Con. Res. 24.
Mr. Speaker, I rise because I believe our
nation will soon be at an inflection point.
For many years now, Americans have won-
dered about the role of Russia’s interference
in the 2016 election and whether that crime
was aided and abetted by Associates of the
Trump Campaign.
Americans have been concerned as we
have watched a parade of colleagues and
contemporaries of the President hauled before
court.
This includes the President’s National Secu-
rity Advisor, his longtime confidante, his
former foreign policy advisor, and yesterday
his former campaign manager and his former
campaign manager.
Indeed, the future that awaits the Presi-
dent’s former campaign manager is bleak—he
is facing 7.5 years in federal prison, and today
a 16-count indictment was returned in Manhat-
tan detailing residential mortgage fraud, con-
spiracy and falsifying business records.
Indeed, most if not all of what we have
learned about those who surround the presi-
dent has been because of the work of the
Special Counsel, Robert Mueller.
It is important that whatever work Mr.
Mueller has done, be shared by the American
people.
This is for any number of reasons.
First of all, broad swaths of the American
people want this report published.
The last public opinion poll conducted
showed that 68% of Americans want this
Mueller report published.
Next, the entire purpose of appointing a
special counsel was because the president’s
first attorney General had to recuse himself
because he was found to be less-than-truthful
about his contacts with Kremlin officials during
the 2016 campaign, on behalf of then Can-
didate Trump.
According to the former Acting Attorney
General, the Special Counsel was appointed
in order for the American people to have full
confidence in the outcome of the investigation
. . . the public must be assured that govern-
ment officials administer the law fairly.
And thus far, Mr. Mueller’s investigation has
revealed the public indictment of 34 individ-
uals, 3 companies, 7 guilty pleas and one 1
conviction following trial.
Through the work done by Mr. Mueller and
his ‘‘speaking indictments,’’ we learned that
Russian military officials tried to wage an ac-
tive measures campaign.
We know that the Russians manipulated our
social media systems.
They did this by turning our social media
platforms like Twitter and Facebook, into
rowdy and unwieldy debates that turned Amer-
icans against one another.
They did this by creating fake online social
media accounts and populated them on social
media platforms.
After infiltrating the social media accounts of
real Americans, these fake accounts sought to
sow discord in these online communities by
purposely exacerbating divisions within our na-
tion and creating new ones—all with the intent
of pitting Americans against one another.
While they were distorting the social media
landscape, they were also selectively dissemi-
nating emails stolen from the Democratic Na-
tional Committee and the campaign of Hillary
Clinton with the purpose of timing the dissemi-
nation to maximize political damage on Sec-
retary Clinton’s campaign.
All the while, the President was encouraging
this behavior.
And, despite protestations by the President,
this is not a witch hunt—it has yielded the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.011 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2728 March 14, 2019
public indictments of 34 individuals and 3
companies, 7 guilty pleas, and 1 conviction.
The American people are watching and pay-
ing attention.
The most recent public opinion poll shows
that a super majority of Americans—a full
68%—wants the Mueller Report made public.
The Mueller Report is one unparalleled way
in which Americans can learn this information
with confidence.
And, finally, we must tackle a serious issue
that is being discussed among elected officials
and the Justice Department.
Over the past two years, we have been told
that it is Justice Department regulations that a
sitting President cannot be indicted. I will note
that this principle has not been tested in court.
That regulation was implemented during the
Watergate investigation, under the theory that
the President cannot be subjected to criminal
process.
But, assuming arguendo that this regulation
is correct, and the President cannot be sub-
jected to criminal process and therefore can-
not and should not be indicted, it is a logical
fallacy to say that because he cannot be in-
dicted by virtue of his office, and because it is
Justice Department regulation not to reveal in-
formation about unindicted parties and individ-
uals, the Justice Department cannot reveal
any information of potential wrongdoing by the
President and not reveal any information to
the body that possesses the constitutional re-
sponsibility for holding this president account-
able.
For these reasons, I rise in strong support
of H. Con. Res. 24, and urge my colleagues
to support it and urge passage so the Amer-
ican people can learn how the 2016 election
became a crime scene.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Ohio
(Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to thank Chairman NADLER for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, my call today is for full
transparency, with a clear focus on the
sinister motives of Russia’s corrupt
leaders. Their interference in our 2016
elections has created confusion, anger,
bewilderment, and division—exactly
what Russia wanted.
Today’s resolution calls for the De-
partment of Justice to make Special
Counsel Robert Mueller’s report, along
with any findings, available to the pub-
lic to the maximum extent permitted
by the law and to provide the report
and its findings, in entirety, to the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica.
So whether you have used Special
Counsel Mueller as a patriot con-
ducting a nonpartisan investigation
into a foreign power’s possible influ-
ence in our elections or as a witch
hunt, a full accounting and public re-
lease of the findings is needed to heal
our political differences.
This is not about embarrassing Presi-
dent Trump. This is about closure and
full disclosure.
If there was no collusion, as the
President has emphasized, then he
should want complete transparency.
Mr. Speaker, the American people de-
serve no less.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the distinguished
majority leader.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, last week,
the House passed H.R. 1, major legisla-
tion to strengthen voter access, ad-
dress the corrosive influence of dark
money in politics, institute national
redistricting reform, and hold public
officials accountable to higher stand-
ards of ethics and transparency.
Taking the next step, this week is
sunshine week on the House floor. The
House has already passed several pieces
of legislation this week to modernize
government and increase transparency,
accountability, and good governance.
They include measures aimed at shin-
ing a light onto Russia’s malign activi-
ties around the world and the suppres-
sion of democracy within its own bor-
ders.
The resolution we now have before us
expresses the sense of Congress that
the American public ought to have
transparency when it comes to the in-
vestigation into Russia’s interference
in our elections and efforts to under-
mine our democracy. It says that the
special counsel’s report ought to be
made public to the fullest extent of the
law and that Congress should see all of
it.
Nearly 9 in 10 Americans believe the
special counsel’s report should be made
public, and we have heard that from
Republicans in Congress as well. I hope
this will be a bipartisan vote to tell the
American people: You have the right to
and ought to know the results of this
report.
One of my Republican colleagues,
Representative MIKE TURNER from
Ohio, said in February the report has
to be made public.
SUSAN COLLINS of Maine said: ‘‘The
American people deserve to know what
the findings are of Mr. Mueller.’’
‘‘I believe the report should be re-
leased,’’ said Senator COLLINS.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me, Mr. NADLER, Republicans, and
Democrats on supporting this resolu-
tion and in calling for transparency.
Let’s come together in a bipartisan
vote to make it clear that the Amer-
ican people deserve to know the full ex-
tent of what Russia—of what Russia—
has done in the objective of subverting
and undermining our democratic insti-
tutions.
I thank the chair for bringing this
resolution to the floor. I urge all of us
to support it. Let’s send a unanimous
message to the Russians and to any
other country or entity that would try
to subvert our democratic elections
that that will not be tolerated.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, how much time do I have remain-
ing?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Georgia has 261⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from New
York has 6 minutes remaining.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Speaker, as I said today, and it is
interesting to me—I think this is the
funny part of this, because so many
times we would come up here and we
retreat to our partisan sides and we
say, I am going to be a ‘‘yes’’; you are
going to be a ‘‘no.’’
The sad part about it is the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN),
my colleague, I said ‘‘yes’’ on Monday
night. I said ‘‘yes’’ to the resolution on
Monday night. Yet it seems like some-
how, through the process: Well, we
need everybody to come together.
We have talked about this. It is noth-
ing but a restatement of the regula-
tion.
Attorney General Barr will follow
the regulation. He has said so. He has
been in committee, and during his time
of confirmation, he has said so.
I think what we need to understand
here, and maybe we also need to throw
this out here, and maybe this is some-
thing because I have heard a lot of my
colleagues across the aisle talk about
what they believe should be in this re-
port. Well, maybe I have a problem and
maybe a news flash to give them: What
happens when it comes back and says
none of this was true, the President did
not do anything wrong? Then the melt-
down will occur.
I heard probably, earlier, just one of
my colleagues actually on the other
side stated that the elections has
thrown chaos into the system. No, the
reason the election has thrown chaos is
because President Trump won and the
Democratic candidate didn’t know
where Wisconsin was. You all remedied
that this time, though. The Demo-
cratic candidate for President will ac-
tually have been to Wisconsin by the
election day next time.
There are other reasons to do this.
Transparency is good.
As we go forward, my hope would be,
on this issue, let’s let the report be
given to the Attorney General. Let’s
let the Attorney General do the regula-
tions and follow the regulations and
give as much as he has said in his con-
firmation hearing: that he wants to be
transparent, he wants to be a part, he
wants this to come out, because he un-
derstands the questions and the tur-
moil that this has caused.
So I have nothing to believe that this
would not be true. There is nothing
that has been presented here today to
think that it wouldn’t be true. That is
what makes this resolution even more
amazing to me: Nothing has been pre-
sented that Mr. Barr would not do what
the regulations say.
Now, there may be more on it and ev-
erything else, but let’s talk about what
actually the resolution says, and that
is what it says.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, contrary to what the
gentleman from Georgia implied a few
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.009 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2729
March 14, 2019
minutes ago, that we shouldn’t be
wasting our time on this because it
only restates what the regulations re-
quire and the Judiciary Committee
ought to be spending its time more pro-
ductively, I simply want to say, first,
that the Democratic House majority
and the Judiciary Committee are not
focused on the President to the exclu-
sion of our legislative priorities.
In the 2 months since we organized,
the Judiciary Committee has passed
H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act of 2019, through the House
and has passed H.R. 1112, the Enhanced
Background Checks Act of 2019,
through the House. H.R. 1585, the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019, passed through the com-
mittee. We have passed H.R. 1, the For
the People Act of 2019, through the
House.
The Judiciary Committee has also
held a hearing to begin the process of
reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act
and held a hearing to examine the
state of competition in the healthcare
industry, as well as the T-Mobile-
Sprint merger.
We have introduced H.R. 5, the
Equality Act; H.R. 1327, the Never For-
get the Heroes: Permanent Authoriza-
tion of September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund Act; and the American
Dream and Promise Act of 2019, the so-
called Dreamers bill.
These are some of the things we have
been doing besides looking into the
possible misconduct by the President.
In closing, I would like to include the
following items in the RECORD:
First, the U.S. Intelligence Commu-
nity report concluding that Vladimir
Putin ordered a misinformation cam-
paign directed against the 2016 Presi-
dential election and displayed a clear
preference for then-candidate Donald
Trump.
ASSESSING RUSSIAN ACTIVITIES AND
INTENTIONS IN RECENT US ELECTIONS
(January 6, 2017)
KEY JUDGMENTS
Russian efforts to influence the 2016 US
presidential election represent the most re-
cent expression of Moscow’s longstanding de-
sire to undermine the US-led liberal demo-
cratic order, but these activities dem-
onstrated a significant escalation in direct-
ness, level of activity, and scope of effort
compared to previous operations.
We assess Russian President Vladimir
Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016
aimed at the US presidential election. Rus-
sia’s goals were to undermine public faith in
the US democratic process, denigrate Sec-
retary Clinton, and harm her electability
and potential presidency. We further assess
Putin and the Russian Government devel-
oped a clear preference for President-elect
Trump. We have high confidence in these
judgments.
We also assess Putin and the Russian Gov-
ernment aspired to help President-elect
Trump’s election chances when possible by
discrediting Secretary Clinton and publicly
contrasting her unfavorably to him. All
three agencies agree with this judgment. CIA
and FBI have high confidence in this judg-
ment; NSA has moderate confidence.
Moscow’s approach evolved over the course
of the campaign based on Russia’s under-
standing of the electoral prospects of the two
main candidates. When it appeared to Mos-
cow that Secretary Clinton was likely to win
the election, the Russian influence campaign
began to focus more on undermining her fu-
ture presidency.
Further information has come to light
since Election Day that, when combined
with Russian behavior since early November
2016, increases our confidence in our assess-
ments of Russian motivations and goals.
Moscow’s influence campaign followed a
Russian messaging strategy that blends cov-
ert intelligence operations—such as cyber
activity—with overt efforts by Russian Gov-
ernment agencies, state-funded media, third-
party intermediaries, and paid social media
users or ‘‘trolls.’’ Russia, like its Soviet
predecessor, has a history of conducting cov-
ert influence campaigns focused on US presi-
dential elections that have used intelligence
officers and agents and press placements to
disparage candidates perceived as hostile to
the Kremlin.
Russia’s intelligence services conducted
cyber operations against targets associated
with the 2016 US presidential election, in-
cluding targets associated with both major
US political parties.
We assess with high confidence that Rus-
sian military intelligence (General Staff
Main Intelligence Directorate or GRU) used
the Guccifer 2.0 persona and DCLeaks.com to
release US victim data obtained in cyber op-
erations publicly and in exclusives to media
outlets and relayed material to WikiLeaks.
Russian intelligence obtained and main-
tained access to elements of multiple US
state or local electoral boards. DHS assesses
that the types of systems Russian actors tar-
geted or compromised were not involved in
vote tallying.
Russia’s state-run propaganda machine
contributed to the influence campaign by
serving as a platform for Kremlin messaging
to Russian and international audiences.
We assess Moscow will apply lessons
learned from its Putin-ordered campaign
aimed at the US presidential election to fu-
ture influence efforts worldwide, including
against US allies and their election proc-
esses.
Mr. NADLER. Second, I include a
February 22, 2019, letter to the Attor-
ney General from six House committee
chairs expressing the expectation that
the Mueller report will be made public
and that the Department will make the
underlying investigative materials
available to committees upon request.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 22, 2019.
Hon. WILLIAM P. BARR,
Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL: Recent re-
ports suggest that Special Counsel Robert
Mueller may be nearing the end of his inves-
tigation into ‘‘any links and/or coordination
between the Russian government and indi-
viduals associated with the campaign of
President Donald Trump’’ and other matters
that may have arisen directly from the in-
vestigation. As you know, Department of
Justice regulations require that, ‘‘[a]t the
conclusion of the Special Counsel’s work, he
or she shall provide the Attorney General
with a confidential report explaining the
prosecution or declination decisions reached
by the Special Counsel.’’
After nearly two years of investigation—
accompanied by two years of direct attacks
on the integrity of the investigation by the
President—the public is entitled to know
what the Special Counsel has found. We
write to you to express, in the strongest pos-
sible terms, our expectation that the Depart-
ment of Justice will release to the public the
report Special Counsel Mueller submits to
you—without delay and to the maximum ex-
tent permitted by law.
There also remains a significant public in-
terest in the full disclosure of information
learned by the Special Counsel about the na-
ture and scope of the Russian government’s
efforts to undermine our democracy. To the
extent that the Department believes that
certain aspects of the report are not suitable
for immediate public release, we ask that
you provide that information to Congress,
along with your reasoning for withholding
the information from the public, in order for
us to judge the appropriateness of any
redactions for ourselves.
We also expect that the Department will
provide to our Committees, upon request and
consistent with applicable law, other infor-
mation and material obtained or produced by
the Special Counsel regarding certain for-
eign actors and other individuals who may
have been the subject of a criminal or coun-
terintelligence investigation. This expecta-
tion is well-grounded in the precedent set by
the Department in recent years. In other
closed and pending high-profile cases alleg-
ing wrongdoing by public officials, both the
Department and the FBI have produced sub-
stantial amounts of investigative material,
including classified and law enforcement
sensitive information, to the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Finally, although we recognize the policy
of the Department to remain sensitive to the
privacy and reputation interests of individ-
uals who will not face criminal charges, we
feel that it is necessary to address the par-
ticular danger of withholding evidence of
misconduct by President Trump from the
relevant committees.
If the Special Counsel has reason to believe
that the President has engaged in criminal
or other serious misconduct, then the Presi-
dent must be subject to accountability ei-
ther in a court or to the Congress. But be-
cause the Department has taken the position
that a sitting President is immune from in-
dictment and prosecution, Congress could be
the only institution currently situated to
act on evidence of the President’s mis-
conduct. To maintain that a sitting presi-
dent cannot be indicted, and then to with-
hold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress
because the President will not be charged, is
to convert Department policy into the means
for a cover-up. The President is not above
the law.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
REP. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, House Com-
mittee on the Judici-
ary.
REP. ELIJAH CUMMINGS,
Chairman, House Com-
mittee on Oversight
and Reform.
REP. ADAM SCHIFF,
Chairman, House Per-
manent Select Com-
mittee on Intel-
ligence.
REP. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, House For-
eign Affairs Com-
mittee.
REP. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, House
Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
REP. RICHARD NEAL,
Chair, House Ways
and Means Com-
mittee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.014 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2730 March 14, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Third, the introduc-
tion to the final report to the Deputy
Attorney General concerning the 1993
confrontation at the Mount Carmel
complex.
INTRODUCTION
This Report contains the findings of the
Special Counsel in response to the questions
directed to him by Attorney General Janet
Reno in Order No. 2256–99, dated September 9,
1999. The questions pertain to the 1993 con-
frontation between federal law enforcement
officials and the Branch Davidians at the Mt.
Carmel complex near Waco, Texas. The Re-
port is issued pursuant to Section (e) of
Order No. 2256–99 which provides, in relevant
part, that the Special Counsel shall submit
‘‘to the maximum extent possible . . . a final
report . . . in a form that will permit public
dissemination.’’
The Office of Special Counsel has organized
the Report in the following format:
(I) a description of the Issues investigated
by the Special Counsel;
(II) the Conclusions of the Special Counsel;
(III) a description of the Investigative
Methods used by the Special Counsel;
(IV) a Statement of Facts relevant to the
Special Counsel’s investigation;
(V) Exhibits to the text of the Report; and
(VI) Appendices that include a narrative
summary of the relevant beliefs and prac-
tices of the Branch Davidians, a summary of
expert findings, a chronological table of
events, and the reports of experts retained
by the Office of Special Counsel.
Mr. NADLER. And fourth, the De-
partment of Justice commentary inter-
preting the special counsel regulations.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Office of the Attorney General
28 CFR Parts 0 and 600
[A.G. Order No. 2232–99]
Office of Special Counsel
AGENCY: Department of Justice.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: This order amends the Code of
Federal Regulations to provide regulations
concerning Attorney General appointment of
Special Counsel to investigate and, when ap-
propriate, to prosecute matters when the At-
torney General concludes that extraordinary
circumstances exist such that the public in-
terest would be served by removing a large
degree of responsibility for a matter from
the Department of Justice. These regula-
tions replace the procedures for appointment
of independent counsel pursuant to the Inde-
pendent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994.
EFFECTIVE DATES: July 1, 1999.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CON-
TACT: John C. Keeney, Deputy Assistant At-
torney General, Criminal Division, U.S. De-
partment of Justice, Washington, DC 20530,
(202) 514–2621.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background
The Attorney General is promulgating
these regulations to replace the procedures
set out in the Independent Counsel Reau-
thorization Act of 1994. These regulations
seek to strike a balance between independ-
ence and accountability in certain sensitive
investigations, recognizing that there is no
perfect solution to the problem. The balance
struck is one of day-to-day independence,
with a Special Counsel appointed to inves-
tigate and, if appropriate, prosecute matters
when the Attorney General concludes that
extraordinary circumstances exist such that
the public interest would be served by re-
moving a large degree of responsibility for
the matter from the Department of Justice.
The Special Counsel would be free to struc-
ture the investigation as he or she wishes
and to exercise independent prosecutorial
discretion to decide whether charges should
be brought, within the context of the estab-
lished procedures of the Department. Never-
theless, it is intended that ultimate respon-
sibility for the matter and how it is handled
will continue to rest with the Attorney Gen-
eral (or the Acting Attorney General if the
Attorney General is personally recused in
the matter); thus, the regulations explicitly
acknowledge the possibility of review of spe-
cific decisions reached by the Special Coun-
sel.
The regulations also remove § 0.14, setting
forth procedures for Special Independent
Counsels for members of Congress. The regu-
lations in that section have been suspended
since April 19, 1989. 54 FR 15752.
Section-by-Section Discussion
Section 600.1. Grounds for Appointing a
Special Counsel
‘‘The Attorney General, or in cases in
which the Attorney General is recused, the
Acting Attorney General, will appoint a Spe-
cial Counsel when he or she determines that
criminal investigation of a person or matter
is warranted and—
(a) That investigation or prosecution of
that person or matter by a United States At-
torney’s Office or litigating Division of the
Department of Justice would present a con-
flict of interest for the Department or other
extraordinary circumstances; and
(b) That under the circumstances, it would
be in the public interest to appoint an out-
side Special Counsel to assume responsi-
bility for the matter.’’
Section 600.2. Alternatives Available to the
Attorney General
‘‘When matters are brought to the atten-
tion of the Attorney General that might war-
rant consideration of appointment of a Spe-
cial Counsel, the Attorney General may:
(a) Appoint a Special Counsel;
(b) Direct that an initial investigation,
consisting of such factual inquiry or legal re-
search as the Attorney General deems appro-
priate, be conducted in order to better in-
form the decision; or
(c) Conclude that under the circumstances
of the matter, the public interest would not
be served by removing the investigation
from the normal processes of the Depart-
ment, and that the appropriate component of
the Department should handle the matter. If
the Attorney General reaches this conclu-
sion, he or she may direct that appropriate
steps be taken to mitigate any conflicts of
interest, such as recusal of particular offi-
cials.’’
Discussion:
There are occasions when the facts create
a conflict so substantial, or the exigencies of
the situation are such that any initial inves-
tigation might taint the subsequent inves-
tigation, so that it is appropriate for the At-
torney General to immediately appoint a
Special Counsel. In other situations, some
initial investigation, whether factual or
legal, may be appropriate to better inform
the Attorney General’s decision. This provi-
sion is intended to make it clear that a vari-
ety of approaches, even in cases that might
create an apparent conflict of interest, may
be appropriate, depending on the facts of the
matter.
Section 600.3. Qualifications of the Special
Counsel
‘‘(a) An individual named as Special Coun-
sel shall be a lawyer with a reputation for in-
tegrity and impartial decisionmaking, and
with appropriate experience to ensure both
that the investigation will be conducted
ably, expeditiously and thoroughly, and that
investigative and prosecutorial decisions
will be supported by an informed under-
standing of the criminal law and Department
of Justice policies. The Special Counsel shall
be selected from outside the United States
Government. Special Counsels shall agree
that their responsibilities as Special Counsel
shall take first precedence in their profes-
sional lives, and that it may be necessary to
devote their full time to the investigation,
depending on its complexity and the stage of
the investigation.
‘‘(b) The Attorney General shall consult
with the Assistant Attorney General for Ad-
ministration to ensure an appropriate meth-
od of appointment, and to ensure that a Spe-
cial Counsel undergoes an appropriate back-
ground investigation and a detailed review of
ethics and conflicts of interest issues. A Spe-
cial Counsel shall be appointed as a ‘con-
fidential employee’ as defined in 5 U.S.C.
7511(b)(2)(C).’’
Section 600.4. Jurisdiction
‘‘(a) Original Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction
of a Special Counsel shall be established by
the Attorney General. The Special Counsel
will be provided with a specific factual state-
ment of the matter to be investigated. The
jurisdiction of a Special Counsel shall also
include the authority to investigate and
prosecute federal crimes committed in the
course of, and with intent to interfere with,
the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as
perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction
of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses;
and to conduct appeals arising out of the
matter being investigated and/or prosecuted.
‘‘(b) Additional Jurisdiction. If in the
course of his or her investigation the Special
Counsel concludes that additional jurisdic-
tion beyond that specified in his or her origi-
nal jurisdiction is necessary in order to fully
investigate and resolve the matters assigned,
or to investigate new matters that come to
light in the course of his or her investiga-
tion, he or she shall consult with the Attor-
ney General, who will determine whether to
include the additional matters within the
Special Counsel’s jurisdiction or assign them
elsewhere.’’
Discussion:
Under these regulations, it is intended that
a Special Counsel’s jurisdiction will be stat-
ed as an investigation of specific facts. The
regulations also recognize, however, that ac-
commodations can be made as necessary
throughout the course of the investigation,
with the Attorney General’s approval. This
provision establishes a protocol whereby
Special Counsels are provided with an appro-
priate description of the boundaries of their
investigation, with the full recognition that
adjustments to that jurisdiction may be re-
quired.
Paragraph (b) establishes a single proce-
dure through which a variety of different ju-
risdictional issues can be resolved. For ex-
ample, a Special Counsel assigned responsi-
bility for an alleged false statement about a
government program may request additional
jurisdiction to investigate allegations of
misconduct with respect to the administra-
tion of that program; a Special Counsel may
conclude that investigating otherwise unre-
lated allegations against a central witness in
the matter is necessary to obtain coopera-
tion; or a Special Counsel may come across
evidence of additional, unrelated crimes by
targets of his or her investigation. Rather
than leaving the issue to argument and mis-
understanding as to whether the new mat-
ters are included within a vague category of
‘‘related matters,’’ the regulations clarify
that the decision as to which component
would handle such new matters would be
made by the Attorney General. The Special
Counsel would report such matters to the At-
torney General, and the Attorney General
would decide whether to grant the Special
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.016 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2731
March 14, 2019
Counsel jurisdiction over the additional mat-
ters.
‘‘(c) Civil and Administrative Jurisdiction.
If in the course of his or her investigation
the Special Counsel determines that admin-
istrative remedies, civil sanctions or other
governmental action outside the criminal
justice system might be appropriate, he or
she shall consult with the Attorney General
with respect to the appropriate component
to take any necessary action. A Special
Counsel shall not have civil or administra-
tive authority unless specifically granted
such jurisdiction by the Attorney General.’’
Discussion:
Paragraph (c) is intended to clarify that
the Special Counsel’s jurisdiction will cover
only the criminal aspects of the matters
within his or her jurisdiction, unless other
jurisdiction is specifically granted by the At-
torney General.
Section 600.5. Staff
‘‘A Special Counsel may request the as-
signment of appropriate Department em-
ployees to assist the Special Counsel. The
Department shall gather and provide the
Special Counsel with the names and resumes
of appropriate personnel available for detail.
The Special Counsel may also request the de-
tail of specific employees, and the office for
which the designated employee works shall
make reasonable efforts to accommodate the
request. The Special Counsel shall assign the
duties and supervise the work of such em-
ployees while they are assigned to the Spe-
cial Counsel. If necessary, the Special Coun-
sel may request that additional personnel be
hired or assigned from outside the Depart-
ment. All personnel in the Department shall
cooperate to the fullest extent possible with
the Special Counsel.’’
Discussion:
This provision, providing for the assign-
ment of appropriate personnel to assist the
Special Counsel, also includes assignment of
needed investigative resources from the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation. It is antici-
pated that most personnel will be Depart-
ment of Justice employees provided by detail
to the Special Counsel, although the regula-
tion provides for additional employment
from outside the Department when nec-
essary.
Section 600.6. Powers and Authority
‘‘Subject to the limitations in the fol-
lowing paragraphs, the Special Counsel shall
exercise, within the scope of his or her juris-
diction, the full power and independent au-
thority to exercise all investigative and
prosecutorial functions of any United States
Attorney. Except as provided in this part,
the Special Counsel shall determine whether
and to what extent to inform or consult with
the Attorney General or others within the
Department about the conduct of his or her
duties and responsibilities.’’
Section 600.7. Conduct and Accountability
‘‘(a) A Special Counsel shall comply with
the rules, regulations, procedures, practices
and policies of the Department of Justice. He
or she shall consult with appropriate offices
within the Department for guidance with re-
spect to established practices, policies and
procedures of the Department, including eth-
ics and security regulations and procedures.
Should the Special Counsel conclude that
the extraordinary circumstances of any par-
ticular decision would render compliance
with required review and approval proce-
dures by the designated Departmental com-
ponent inappropriate, he or she may consult
directly with the Attorney General.’’
Mr. NADLER. I would also like to
say, Mr. Speaker, that one reason for
this resolution, given the fact that Mr.
Barr, the Attorney General, has, in
fact, said that he would want to release
as much as possible—and we appreciate
that statement—but he and Mr. Rosen-
stein, the Deputy Attorney General, as
I mentioned in my opening remarks,
have both cited the Department policy
not to comment on the conduct of
someone not indicted.
That leads us to expect that a
misapplication of the normal Depart-
ment policy to a sitting President of
not commenting on someone who is not
indicted, the application of that nor-
mally good policy to a sitting Presi-
dent who the Department believes can-
not be indicted because he is a sitting
President, would, in fact, greatly limit
the ability of the Department or the
willingness of the Department to re-
lease information in the report to the
Congress and to the public.
One of the reasons for this resolution
is that we want to say, no, you cannot
use that normally salutary policy to
convert the Department’s policy of
never indicting a sitting President into
a coverup that you can’t comment or
give to the Congress information about
that.
If you can’t indict a sitting President
and you can’t give the information to
Congress, then you are holding the
President above the law, and you are
frustrating Congress’ ability to do its
job of holding an administration ac-
countable.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. HURD).
b 1000
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman for his indulgence.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
resolution because I want the whole
truth and nothing but the truth to
come to light in this matter; I want to
know what Vladimir Putin did to our
electoral process; I want to know the
failures of the Obama administration
in reacting to this attack in real time;
I want any Americans complicit to face
severe consequences; and I want the
American people to know as much as
they can and see as much as they can.
As a member of the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, I
support the efforts and the request for
all information pertaining to this in-
vestigation to be open to the public.
That includes all witness lists, every
interview transcript, and every docu-
ment provided.
The taxpayers paid millions for this
information, and they should get to see
all of it and not just the assessment of
one person.
This resolution should have been
broader; it should have been deeper;
and it should have covered everything
dealing with the investigation. But it
is a step in the right direction.
I hope my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle accept the calls for all
the information to be made public be-
cause full transparency is the only way
to prevent future speculation. Full
transparency is the only way to pre-
vent future innuendo.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 15
seconds to the gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. COLLINS).
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I just want to say thank you to the
chairman. I appreciate it. Mr. HURD
was on his way over here. I did my best
song and dance. It didn’t last long
enough. I am from the South. I am bad
because I can’t dance that well. So I
appreciate the gentleman giving him
that moment.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, for all the reasons stat-
ed by all the people who spoke in favor
of this resolution, myself and everyone
else, I urge adoption of the resolution.
I urge everyone to vote for it. It is a
very important resolution to maintain
the rule of law in this country
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 208,
the previous question is ordered on the
concurrent resolution and preamble, as
amended.
The question is on adoption of the
concurrent resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on adoption of the concur-
rent resolution will be followed by a 5-
minute vote on agreeing to the Speak-
er’s approval of the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 420, nays 0,
answered ‘‘present’’ 4, not voting 7, as
follows:
[Roll No. 125]
YEAS—420
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.003 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2732 March 14, 2019
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—4
Amash
Gaetz
Gosar
Massie
NOT VOTING—7
Cleaver
Hastings
Lofgren
Marshall
McEachin
Ratcliffe
Schweikert
b 1030
Messrs. BRADY and BUCK changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. GAETZ changed his vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘present.’’
So the concurrent resolution was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I regrettably
missed votes on Thursday, March 14, 2019. I
had intended to vote ‘‘yes’’ on rollcall vote No.
125.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I was ab-
sent from the House floor during today’s roll-
call vote on H. Con. Res. 24. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 125.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM THURSDAY,
MARCH 14, 2019, TO MONDAY,
MARCH 18, 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at noon on Monday, March 18,
2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1004
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to remove Rep-
resentative TOM RICE as a cosponsor
from H.R. 1004.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is advised that a unanimous
consent request for the consideration
of that measure would have to receive
clearance from the majority and the
minority floor and committee leader-
ships.
The Chair is unaware at this time of
any such clearance. Therefore, the
Chair cannot and will not entertain
that request at this time.
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I urge
to immediately schedule this impor-
tant bill.
f
DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, domestic vi-
olence is an insidious problem that af-
fects far too many people across our
country.
One in four women and one in seven
men will be the victim of violence by
an intimate partner in their lifetime.
Sadly, the scourge of domestic and
sexual violence affects our commu-
nities, our schools, our servicemem-
bers, and threatens the well-being of
women, men, children, the LGBTQ
community, our veterans, and others.
But through education and legisla-
tive action like reauthorizing the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, or VAWA,
we can and have made a difference.
Since its passage 25 years ago
through 2012, the rate of domestic vio-
lence decreased by 63 percent. From
1996 to 2015, the rate of women mur-
dered by men in a single-victim/single-
offender incident dropped by 29 per-
cent.
This week, we voted in the Judiciary
Committee to reauthorize this life-sav-
ing legislation.
I look forward to bringing VAWA to
the floor so that families may be pro-
tected from the tragedy of domestic
and sexual violence; so that young
women like my granddaughter, Au-
brey, feel safe to focus on the things
that are most important, like claiming
her education, her career, and her
happy life ahead of her.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this important leg-
islation.
f
RECOGNIZING JEANNETTE RANKIN
DURING WOMEN’S HISTORY
MONTH
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.006 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2733
March 14, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize a trailblazing Mon-
tanan as we celebrate Women’s History
Month.
A fearless, principled leader,
Jeannette Rankin was a courageous
pioneer. The daughter of a rancher and
a teacher, she was born and raised in
Montana. Growing up, she helped on
her family’s ranch and, in 1902, grad-
uated from what is now the University
of Montana.
As a staunch advocate for women’s
suffrage, she successfully led efforts to
secure women the right to vote in Mon-
tana in 1914, 6 years before the 19th
Amendment to our Constitution was
ratified.
Four years before women could vote
throughout our Nation, Montanans
elected Jeannette Rankin to Congress.
She was the first woman to serve in
this body.
Dedicated to her guiding principles,
Jeannette Rankin is foundational to
Montana’s and our country’s history. It
is my distinct honor to recognize her
for her lasting contributions to our
country during Women’s History
Month.
f
SHED LIGHT ON DARK MONEY
(Ms. SCANLON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, last
week the House passed H.R. 1, the For
the People Act, a sweeping voting
rights and government reform package
that returns the power of our democ-
racy to the American people.
Since this week is Sunshine Week, I
want to focus on a particular part of
H.R. 1 that is designed to shine some
much-needed sunshine on the corrosive
influence of dark money.
Multiple sources reported this week
that the President’s 2017 inaugural
fund received tens of thousands of dol-
lars in contributions from shell compa-
nies to conceal illegal contributions
from foreign donors.
Think about that. Foreign agents
lavished tens of thousands of dollars on
the U.S. inaugural celebration so they
could try to influence our President.
That is why I introduced the Inau-
gural Fund Integrity Act, which is part
of H.R. 1, to close loopholes in the ex-
isting regulations, to put an end to do-
nations by foreign nationals and cor-
porations, to ban personal use of inau-
gural funds, and to require disclosure
of all donations and spending by inau-
gural committees.
It is hard to think of an area more in
need of sunshine than a shadowy slush
fund rife with opportunities for govern-
ment corruption.
f
COMMUNITY SERVICES BLOCK
GRANT
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of
H.R. 1695, the Community Services
Block Grant Reauthorization Act of
2019.
This bill renews our Nation’s com-
mitment to reducing poverty through
locally driven, comprehensive ap-
proaches.
I am proud to lead this legislation
with Congresswoman BETTY MCCOL-
LUM.
Mr. Speaker, the Community Serv-
ices Block Grant traces its roots back
more than 50 years ago to the Eco-
nomic Opportunity Act of 1964. This
act established local committee action
agencies to help people identify why
people were in poverty and how to ad-
dress it using public and private re-
sources and partnerships.
Virtually every county in America
has a community action agency. They
act as a safety net for low-income indi-
viduals and families, but, more impor-
tantly, they help to create opportuni-
ties to raise people out of poverty—
from poverty to independence.
The Community Services Block
Grant is the only Federal program with
the explicit goal of reducing poverty,
regardless of its cause. Unfortunately,
this program has not been reauthorized
in more than 20 years, which is unac-
ceptable.
It is time to reauthorize the Commu-
nity Services Block Grant, and I urge
all my colleagues to cosponsor and sup-
port this bill.
f
RISING FOR MOLLY
(Ms. HOULAHAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
for my Molly.
I stand here on the floor of the House
of Representatives as a proud mother
of a gay daughter.
When I was in the Air Force, we were
taught never to leave anyone behind;
and, after the 2016 election, I listened
as my daughter, my Molly, cried in my
arms.
She was scared for her community,
the LGBTQ community. She was
scared that America had left her and
her community behind.
This is and was the country that I
served. This was the daughter that I
have raised. I was scared too.
When we decided, as a family, to run
for Congress, Molly and I spoke about
her story and whether she was com-
fortable with me sharing it with our
Nation. We agreed that it was impor-
tant.
As a mother, an ally, and now a
Member of Congress, I feel it my duty
and my privilege to champion the
voices of those in the LGBTQ commu-
nity.
I am proud to cosponsor the Equality
Act. I do so for my daughter—my
Molly—for my community, the Penn-
sylvania 6th, and for all of my fellow
LGBTQ Americans.
You will not be left behind.
f
BMW CREATES JOBS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, it was reported last week that
the BMW plant in South Carolina re-
mained the top vehicle exporter in
America, with more than $8.4 billion
worth of cars shipped to foreign coun-
tries.
Nearly a quarter of a million cars
were exported, with the vast majority
sent from the Port of Charleston, led
by State Ports Authority President
Jim Newsome.
Mr. Speaker, 25 years ago, the late
Governor Carroll Campbell recruited
BMW to South Carolina with export
production of 1,400 cars a day. Produc-
tion in 2018 was 356,749 vehicles.
Governor Henry McMaster and Com-
merce Secretary Bobby Hitt continue
to promote an additional $600 million
investment in Plant Spartanburg,
which already at $10 billion is the larg-
est BMW plant in the world, providing
11,000 jobs.
Thousands of additional jobs in the
region have been created by suppliers
to the assembly facility.
Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, God bless
our troops, and we will never forget
September the 11th in the global war
on terrorism.
f
b 1045
WISHING SUPREME COURT JUS-
TICE RUTH BADER GINSBURG A
HAPPY 86TH BIRTHDAY
(Ms. BARRAGÁN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. BARRAGÁN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg and to wish her a happy 86th
birthday this Friday.
During this Women’s History Month,
we celebrate visionary women like Jus-
tice Ginsburg, whose work ethic and
achievements have motivated me and
many women across this country.
Throughout her career, Justice Gins-
burg has been a pioneer for gender
equality. As a first-year Harvard Law
student, she was one of nine women in
a 500-person class and became the first
female professor to have tenure at Co-
lumbia.
She would later cofound the ACLU’s
Women’s Rights Project, paving the
way for groundbreaking work around
issues like pregnancy and parenting,
education equity and equal pay.
Undoubtedly, Justice Ginsburg has
set a precedent for women everywhere
and continues to do so as a Supreme
Court Justice.
I wish Justice Ginsburg many more
years of health and happiness. She
truly is an American hero.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.023 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2734 March 14, 2019
COMMEMORATING DR. JOHN
BARDO
(Mr. ESTES asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of Wichita State Uni-
versity President Dr. John Bardo, who
sadly passed away on March 12, 2019. In
his 7 years as president, Dr. Bardo’s de-
votion to education and Wichita State
was unsurpassed as he led the univer-
sity in a bold direction that benefited
students and the entire Wichita com-
munity.
Dr. Bardo’s tenure was not his first
job at the university. In 1975, Dr.
Bardo, then an assistant professor of
sociology, met his wife, Deborah.
When Dr. Bardo returned to Wichita
State as president in 2012, he said: ‘‘We
came home . . . to reposition this uni-
versity as a key driver of the future of
Wichita.’’ From developing the Innova-
tion Campus and WSU Tech, to increas-
ing online courses, research, and dorm
space, his leadership accomplished that
goal and set the university on a path to
be a nationwide leader in education.
Last July, Dr. Bardo was invited to
come testify before the House Edu-
cation and the Workforce Committee
about Wichita State’s leadership in in-
novation. As a member of the com-
mittee at the time, I will never forget
the pride Dr. Bardo showed for the uni-
versity and our community.
I know Shockers are better off be-
cause of his leadership, passion, and vi-
sion.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
praying for the Bardo family.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
VICTOR MCELHANEY
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the memory of Vic-
tor McElhaney, the son of my friend,
Oakland City Councilwoman Lynette
McElhaney, and his father, Clarence,
and to offer my deepest condolences on
behalf of the 13th Congressional Dis-
trict.
Victor was tragically slain in a
senseless act of gun violence early Sun-
day morning in Los Angeles. He was
killed in a robbery attempt while head-
ing home from a friend’s house.
Victor was just 21 years old and a
senior at the University of Southern
California’s Thornton School of Music,
where he was pursuing his lifelong love
of music. He was a talented drummer
and was often playing at jam sessions,
displaying his musical genius.
Victor was a son of Oakland, and his
passing is a loss for Oakland and the
entire East Bay community. My heart
is heavy for Lynette and her family
and all those who loved and cared for
Victor.
Victor was killed in Los Angeles, but
his murder reflects the epidemic of gun
violence in my district and all around
the country, especially communities of
color. Even before Victor’s tragic pass-
ing, combating gun violence in Oak-
land was a priority for his mother as a
city council member.
May God comfort Victor’s family as
we mourn his loss. May his spirit lead
and guide us in the work that we must
do to end gun violence in his memory.
May Victor’s legacy live, and may he
rest in peace.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF CAPTAIN JAKE RINGERING
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life
and service of Captain Jake Ringering,
a beloved member of the Godfrey Fire
Protection District who tragically lost
his life in the line of duty on March 5.
While responding to a fire in
Bethalto, members of the Godfrey Fire
Protection District were attempting to
suppress the fire from outside when the
building partially collapsed. Captain
Ringering and Firefighter Luke Warner
both sustained injuries from the col-
lapse.
Captain Ringering served as a fire-
fighter for more than 18 years, begin-
ning with the East Alton Fire Depart-
ment before joining the Godfrey Fire
Department in 2010. He was promoted
to captain in May 2014.
The Godfrey fire chief described him
as ‘‘gold’’ and leaving a legacy that
will be remembered for a long time.
Godfrey’s mayor, and my friend, Mike
McCormick, said his passing leaves
‘‘hard boots to fill.’’
Captain Ringering is survived by his
wife and three young children. Please
join me in keeping his family, as well
as the Godfrey community, in your
thoughts and prayers.
f
OPPOSING PRESIDENT TRUMP’S
BUDGET PROPOSAL
(Mr. MCADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the President’s budget
proposal, which would increase the
Federal deficit from $779 billion in 2018
to $1.1 trillion in 2020. If the goal is to
rein in deficits and debt, this budget
represents epic failure.
I am a public servant who takes seri-
ously the responsibility of spending
other people’s money. As a freshman
Member of the Congress, the current
deficit hole we have dug for ourselves
wasn’t my doing, but I was elected to
solve problems, not make them worse.
America’s $22 trillion debt is a bipar-
tisan problem. Democrats and Repub-
licans have acted in a way that sug-
gests that debt doesn’t matter. But
Utahns know that if it was their small
business with books so badly out of
balance, they would soon be out of
business.
Our government has been living be-
yond its means for years, and I believe
it is wrong for one generation to for-
ever burden generations yet to come.
As a former mayor who had to bal-
ance, in bipartisan fashion, a budget
every year, I know these choices aren’t
easy. But it is our job to roll up our
sleeves, come together, and work out a
budget that takes serious steps toward
reducing the dangerous, unsustainable
levels of debt in our country. Those
steps are not in the President’s budget.
f
CONGRATULATING FIRST
SERGEANT IAN MCCLURE
(Ms. CHENEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate First Sergeant
Ian McClure, U.S. Army, for being
named the 2018 Allied Command Oper-
ations Military Member of the Year.
A 2003 graduate of East High School
in Cheyenne, Wyoming, First Sergeant
McClure went on to serve in the Army
Special Forces in Afghanistan, Iraq,
and Mali, and he is now stationed at
NATO Special Operations headquarters
in Belgium.
First Sergeant McClure was selected
for this award because of his superior
performance and professional excel-
lence. I am proud that General
Scaparrotti recognized First Sergeant
McClure’s significant contributions to
the success of alliance operations.
Sergeant McClure exemplifies the
best that Wyoming and our country
has to offer, and I thank him for his
service and his sacrifices for our free-
dom.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I am proud to
congratulate First Sergeant Ian
McClure on this prestigious honor and
for being a brilliant example for the
entire State of Wyoming.
f
MAINLAND REGIONAL HIGH
SCHOOL GIRLS BASKETBALL
STATE CHAMPIONS
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, thank
you for allowing me to honor some out-
standing members of south Jersey. The
Mainland Regional High School Girls
Basketball team has recently won the
New Jersey Group 3 State champion-
ship. This is the first time the Main-
land Regional High School girls bas-
ketball team has achieved this amaz-
ing accomplishment.
These girls are the embodiment of
teamwork. This win, and the hard work
that they have put in to achieve it, is
about all of them, not any one indi-
vidual. I have been told that some of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.025 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2735
March 14, 2019
them have been best friends since they
were 7 years old.
This friendship and teamwork have
led them to reach an amazing goal. We
could all learn a little bit about team-
work, especially in this great House of
ours, and we could learn it from these
amazing young ladies.
Congratulations to the Mainland Re-
gional High School girls basketball
team. Keep up the good work. We are
really proud of you.
f
REMEMBERING THE EIGHTH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE SYRIAN CON-
FLICT
(Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Mr.
Speaker, I stand here today in remem-
brance of the eighth anniversary of the
Syrian conflict, which resulted in the
tragic loss of many human lives and
the destabilization of the entire region.
This is all because of the dictator
Bashar Assad, who is unwilling to step
aside and heed the Syrian people’s call
for freedom. After destroying Syria,
Assad is now attempting to attract
economic investment. But in addition
to killing over 400,000 Syrians of the
Muslim faith, Assad has also failed to
protect the religious minority of Chris-
tians in Syria.
Having personally met with the Syr-
ian Christians for Peace, I have heard
firsthand how Assad repeatedly tar-
geted Syria’s most vulnerable popu-
lations.
Few Christians continue to live in
Assad’s Syria, due to brutality by pro-
Assad militias. That is why we must
support the Trump administration’s
isolation of the regime and its allies in
Tehran and Moscow. That is why the
Senate must follow the House and pass
the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection
Act.
f
SUPPORTING THE EQUALITY ACT
(Ms. HAALAND asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Equality Act.
America must live up to its values,
and that means treating everyone as
equals and ending discrimination. The
Equality Act is about making sure all
Americans, regardless of sexual ori-
entation or gender identity, can par-
ticipate in our society without fear.
New Mexico is home to diverse reli-
gious and traditional communities and
has stood up for its LGBTQ population
for a long time. We stood up early to
ban the cruel practice of conversion
therapy.
The Equality Act allows us to adhere
to our faiths while prohibiting harmful
and isolating acts of discrimination ex-
perienced by too many LGBTQ Ameri-
cans.
Consider this: 38 percent of
transgender New Mexicans are unem-
ployed; 40 percent live in poverty; 26
percent have been discriminated
against during the hiring or promotion
processes; 41 percent have been home-
less at some point; and 33 percent have
been discriminated against at a place
of public accommodation.
No one should have to worry about
being discriminated against when plan-
ning their wedding or struggle to sim-
ply get a cake. The Equality Act will
outlaw such discrimination, which is
why we should pass it as soon as pos-
sible.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
MAYOR NANCY SHAVER
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor and recognize
Mayor Nancy Shaver and her tenure of
dedicated service to the citizens of St.
Augustine, Florida. A strong advocate
for the Nation’s oldest city, Mayor
Shaver recently stepped down from her
position with an admirable record of
leadership in her community.
Mayor Shaver, who previously served
as a teacher and businesswoman, was
elected to office in 2014. During her
time as mayor, she was a tireless advo-
cate for important issues that are very
unique to the city of St. Augustine. It
was my honor to work with her in the
effort to combat sea level rise to pro-
tect our coastal economies and safe-
guard the priceless historical and cul-
tural features that make St. Augustine
so special.
As mayor, she exemplified the vir-
tues of local government by putting
citizens, not politics, first and remain-
ing devoted to the northeast Florida
community.
I thank Nancy Shaver for her com-
mitment to the city of St. Augustine
and our fellow citizens, for whom she
so dearly cared. I wish her and her fam-
ily the best in their future endeavors.
f
OPPOSITION TO USING FEDERAL
FUNDS TO ARM TEACHERS
(Mrs. HAYES asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to voice my opposition to the
idea of using Federal funds to arm
teachers. This issue has haunted me
from the moment it was first discussed
after the tragedy at Sandy Hook Ele-
mentary School to more recently when
it was revisited after the Parkland
shooting.
Seventy-three percent of teachers do
not want this. More than 60 percent of
parents do not want this. And the ma-
jority of students do not want this.
Since 1999, in 225 incidents of school
campus gun violence, armed personnel
failed to disarm a shooter 223 times.
I came to Congress from the class-
room. As a teacher, I would never want
the responsibility of securing a firearm
in a school. I understand how this
would drastically change the school
culture and make it feel more like a
prison.
As the wife of a police officer, I un-
derstand the training that is involved
with the responsibility of owning a
firearm, and I know that school dis-
tricts cannot manage that. I could
never imagine explaining to a parent
that it was my firearm that acciden-
tally injured their child.
I recognize that many local school
communities are still trying to decide
where they fall on this conversation,
yet I cannot overstress the point that
Federal funds should not be diverted
from student learning outcomes to arm
teachers.
This is why, today, I have introduced
a resolution to prohibit the use of Fed-
eral funds to arm teachers.
f
b 1100
GRAHAM CREEK BRIDGE
(Mr. PENCE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, as a mem-
ber of the House Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure with a
strong background in the industry, I
understand the vital role freight rail
plays in getting Hoosier-made and Hoo-
sier-grown products to the market.
Short line freight rail makes up near-
ly 30 percent of all freight rail, allow-
ing rural communities like those
across Indiana’s Sixth District to play
an integral role in our economy. One
such line is the Madison Railroad,
which provides exclusive access to the
national rail network for many Hoo-
siers in southeastern Indiana.
The city of Madison is working to ob-
tain Federal grant funding to replace
the 100-year-plus Graham Creek Bridge,
critical infrastructure that keeps the
Madison Railroad safely operating and
serving our community.
Built in the 19th century, the current
structure poses an immediate safety
risk and cannot accommodate heavy
commercial freight loads. Replacement
of this bridge will benefit southeast In-
diana by removing a potential safety
risk and creating jobs and economic
opportunity for Hoosiers.
Mr. Speaker, we are proud of the his-
toric architecture throughout Indiana,
and the Graham Creek Bridge has been
an iconic landmark that extends over
the beautiful Muscatatuck River. I
hope my colleagues in this Chamber
can join me in supporting this infra-
structure project.
f
RECOGNIZING RAQUEL GUERRERO
(Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
during Women’s History Month, I rise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.027 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2736 March 14, 2019
to honor the life and legacy of Raquel
Guerrero, a woman who immigrated as
a child to Chicago’s Pilsen community
and who dedicated her life to make it a
better place for her family and for all
families.
She was instrumental in improving
opportunities and demanding more re-
sources and better education for the
mostly Latino students in my district.
She understood the value of a good
education for children, but it extended
beyond books, and advocated for
healthy hot meals for students at what
is now known as the Pilsen Community
Academy, where I had my first years of
schooling.
She helped establish Pilsen’s annual
Fiesta del Sol, the largest community
festival in the Midwest.
Raquel was instrumental in securing
funds to build the new Benito Juarez
Community Academy High School in
Pilsen, which has since provided many
generations of young people with good
public education.
She helped found APO, the Associa-
tion for Workers Rights, a workers’
rights group that still operates in the
community.
Raquel’s organizing efforts also re-
sulted in the funding of the Rudy
Lozano Library in Pilsen.
She was the mother of 11, but treated
every child in the community as a part
of her family.
Mr. Speaker, we honor her during
Women’s History Month.
f
REMEMBERING THE HONORABLE
LOUISE SLAUGHTER
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, it is
hard to believe that it has been almost
a year since we lost our beloved col-
league, the Honorable Louise Slaugh-
ter.
Louise always believed personal rela-
tionships could transcend politics. She
set an example for us all through her
acts of kindness, particularly with
those of us in the other party.
We bonded as members of an exclu-
sive club, a club I wish upon no one:
those of us who have lost our spouses.
Somehow she made me feel like I was
helping her through the loss of her hus-
band when, in fact, she, being much
smarter than I, knew that, through my
attempts to help her, she was really
helping me through the loss of my wife.
It was recently announced that Lou-
ise, the first female chair of the House
Rules Committee, would be inducted
into the National Women’s Hall of
Fame. What a deserving honor.
I will always appreciate my friend-
ship with the Honorable Louise Slaugh-
ter and will never forget the efforts she
made to take me under her wing from
across the political aisle.
f
FOR THE PEOPLE AGENDA
(Mr. CARTWRIGHT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to remind this House of the Demo-
cratic For the People agenda, which
starts with rebuilding American infra-
structure and creating good paying
jobs doing so.
It includes expanding healthcare so
that it is available to more and more
Americans, and bringing down the
costs of healthcare and prescription
drugs.
It includes cleaning up our American
democracy and rooting out corruption
in our electoral process.
We achieved the third one this month
with H.R. 1, the For the People Act,
but the other two took a serious blow
this week when we saw the President’s
budget, which cuts Medicare to the
tune of $1.5 trillion over the next 10
years, breaking a core promise of the
President’s campaign, and also cuts in-
frastructure spending.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
reject that shortsightedness in the
President’s budget, and let’s go ahead
and achieve the For the People agenda.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO DAVID LEON
LOYA
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to pay tribute to David Leon
Loya. This is a young man who was full
of life.
David loved life and enjoyed some-
thing that many of us have partici-
pated in and that we see more Ameri-
cans doing across the Nation, and that
is bicycling. He was an avid bicyclist
and enjoyed the outdoors in Houston,
Texas.
He was a young man with a future be-
fore him with a loving family.
He was a young man that we want to
pay tribute to because we know that he
exhibited values of love and generosity,
because of the community who came
out to express their remorse and their
sadness that he lost his life while bicy-
cling.
We understand, in tribute to him,
recognizing that as the world changes,
more Americans will be riding their bi-
cycle. We want to make sure, in his
name, that we have designed bicycle
paths, that in the urban areas they
cover streets in a lighted way so that
vehicles can acknowledge those on bi-
cycles and that they can be protected.
David Leon Loya, we honor him and
love him. In his name, Mr. Speaker, we
will make these bicycle paths the best
and the most safe, and he will not have
died in vain.
To his family, my deepest sympathy.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
TRONE) laid before the House the fol-
lowing communication from the Clerk
of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I have the honor to
transmit herewith a letter from Mr. Josh
Lawson, General Counsel, North Carolina
State Board of Elections, indicating that a
special election has been ordered for the
Ninth Congressional District of North Caro-
lina.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
Enclosure.
NORTH CAROLINA,
STATE BOARD OF ELECTIONS,
March 13, 2019.
Re Notification of Order of new election in
Ninth Congressional District of the State
of North Carolina.
Hon. CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk of the House of Representatives, c/o Tom
Wickham, Parliamentarian.
DEAR MADAM CLERK: The North Carolina
State Board of Elections today entered a
written Order directing a new election in our
State’s Ninth Congressional District. The
Order, which was separately with your Of-
fice, established the following special elec-
tion calendar, including a primary required
by State law:
Primary election: May 14, 2019;
Second primary (if necessary): September
10, 2019;
General election (if no second primary):
September 10, 2019; and
General election (if second primary): No-
vember 5, 2019.
Our State greatly appreciates all actions
that may be authorized by your Office to en-
able ongoing provision of services to resi-
dents within the District.
Sincerely,
JOSH LAWSON,
General Counsel.
f
EQUALITY FOR THE LGBTQ
COMMUNITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from New
Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Hampshire?
There was no objection.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, there are
times in Washington that go beyond
the mundane, times when you can feel
the pull of public sentiment and the
weight of history, times that aren’t po-
litical but become personal. For some
of us who serve here and for millions
more around the country, this is one of
those times.
Yesterday, I was proud to join so
many Members of this House to intro-
duce the Equality Act. This bill will
ensure full equality under the law for
the LGBTQ community, an essential
step, given that Americans can still be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.029 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2737
March 14, 2019
fired or discriminated against in nearly
30 States.
We have made marked progress over
recent decades, no doubt, but full
equality for LGBTQ Americans still
lies somewhere over the horizon.
We are not asking for anything more
or anything less than any other Amer-
ican enjoys. We are asking to be treat-
ed equally, and we are asking for it
right now.
I grew up afraid about whether I
would be accepted by the world around
me and convinced I wouldn’t be able to
live a full life. This is, unfortunately, a
reality today for too many LGBTQ
Americans. Too many still live in fear
of sharing their truth or telling their
stories. Too many contend with injus-
tice because of who they are or whom
they love.
There is injustice when more than 4
million workers could face the risk of
employment discrimination in this
country.
There is injustice when more than 2
million students are left without pro-
tections against bullying, harassment,
and roadblocks on their path to an edu-
cation.
There is injustice when nearly 7 mil-
lion Americans could be subject to dis-
crimination in public accommodations.
There is injustice when 51⁄2 million
Americans could be denied equal oppor-
tunities to secure housing or credit.
This is heartbreaking. This is not
what America stands for, and we can
do something about it.
We can take action to support the
values and the Constitution of this Na-
tion.
We can take action that will protect
the safety and well-being of millions
and tell everyone, particularly the
LGBTQ youth, that they can reach
their full potential.
We can take action and pass the
Equality Act.
The Equality Act will end these in-
justices and establish equality under
the law by enshrining sexual orienta-
tion and gender identity language into
the Civil Rights Act, the Fair Housing
Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act,
and the Jury Selection and Services
Act.
We must address this at the Federal
level. Equality and human dignity are
not concepts that can be left up to the
States. Americans who live in Ne-
braska deserve the same civil rights
protections as those living in my home
State of New Hampshire. The same
goes for those living in Mississippi and
in Massachusetts.
The end of discrimination can only
begin when we protect our fellow citi-
zens in each and every community
across this Nation.
Since Stonewall, millions of LGBTQ
Americans have come out and have
told their stories. Many have done so
at great personal risk, but with a great
societal benefit.
Coming out and living openly has
done more to change hearts, minds,
and laws than anything else. As a re-
sult, we now stand on the cusp of his-
tory and of full equality, with the
American people and public opinion
squarely behind us.
Mr. Speaker, as the people’s House
considers this bill, I ask my colleagues
a simple question: Who deserves to be
treated as a second-class citizen just
for being who we are? Which Members
of this body, which people in your dis-
tricts, which people in your own lives
deserve to be less than equal?
Mr. Speaker, I hope this House gets
it right. Full equality under the law—
nothing less, nothing more. It is a sim-
ple concept; it is a beautiful concept;
and it is also an American concept.
Mr. Speaker, for the sake of the
LGBTQ Americans today, for future
generations, let’s pass H.R. 5, the
Equality Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
b 1115
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, as most
Members are heading back home, I was
reminded in the elevator of someone
who said: Well, you know, you guys are
getting off this week. I have told
friends and some of the media that you
guys take vacations all the time.
I explained: You don’t want us in ses-
sion every day. Every day we are in
session, we pass something that could
be law restraining you in furtherance
of your freedoms.
It is a good thing when Members of
Congress go home, as most of us do. It
is tougher for those on the West Coast,
but most of us go home each weekend
during recesses or maybe a quick trip
to speak here or there just outside of
the district. But it is a good thing for
Members of Congress to go home and to
hear from people back home. That is
good. Anyway, sometimes the rigors at
home are even more than we face here.
There are at least three things I want
to address today. One of them is infor-
mation that has come out.
I was there for a number of the depo-
sitions that were taken behind closed
doors of witnesses—formerly from the
Justice Department, some still with
the Justice Department—regarding
what Gregg Jarrett called ‘‘The Russia
Hoax,’’ and he documents why that
sounds like an appropriate title.
There is an article from FOX News
about this by Gregg Re. This quoted
Lisa Page. She was an interesting wit-
ness. It was interesting watching her
testify.
As a former judge who has tried a
tremendous number of cases in Federal
court, State court, and military court,
it is interesting watching people tes-
tify. Most you can get a little tell when
they are being dishonest, but it has
been amazing to me, especially since I
have been in Congress, how many peo-
ple can look you in the eye and lie. You
know they are lying; they know they
are lying; and often you can see they
don’t care. People like that are often
able to pass polygraph tests because
you have got to have a conscience. You
cannot have numbed your conscience
to the point that you are not affected
by your own lying anymore.
Lisa Page’s presentation as she testi-
fied was tremendously different from
Peter Strzok as he testified behind
closed doors. It was amazing to watch
that guy. Because of his answers, I
knew he was lying. And it appeared to
me that there were no tells, that he
just didn’t seem to be bothered by the
fact and that he could sit there and lie
under oath. I thought perhaps he would
be a great candidate to pass a lie
detecter test when he is lying.
But then somebody told me, actually,
he failed two lie detecter tests in the
FBI, but somebody like Lisa Page re-
moved those from his file. It is great to
have friends to help you out when you
do wrong and they can cover for you.
And I am being sarcastic, for friends
who cannot figure that out.
But the article points out that
former FBI lawyer, Lisa Page, testi-
fied: ‘‘The FBI was ordered by the
Obama DOJ not to consider charging
Hillary Clinton for gross negligence in
the handling of classified informa-
tion.’’
It goes on and says: ‘‘Page’s testi-
mony was perhaps the most salient evi-
dence yet that the Justice Department
improperly interfered with the FBI’s
supposedly independent conclusions on
Clinton’s criminal culpability’’—well,
stating that that came from JOHN
RATCLIFFE, a colleague of ours from
Texas, here in Congress. He was ques-
tioning her, and he says: ‘‘But when
you say advice you got from the De-
partment, you’re making it sound like
it was the Department’’—talking about
the Department of Justice—‘‘that told
you: You’re not going to charge gross
negligence because we’re the prosecu-
tors and we’re telling you we’re not
going to—’’
And Lisa Page interrupted and said:
‘‘That is correct.’’
Lisa Page also testified that ‘‘the
DOJ and FBI had multiple conversa-
tions . . . about charging gross neg-
ligence,’’ and the DOJ decided that the
term was ‘‘constitutionally vague,’’
which is really interesting because as a
judge, as a lawyer, I tried cases in
which gross negligence was alleged. I
am not aware of any court case ever in-
dicating that gross negligence was un-
constitutionally vague. Maybe there is
a case that says that. I am not aware of
one.
But if there were to be one from the
Supreme Court, then there would be
massive criminal and civil judgments
that would be due to be undone and be
reversed because most lawyers who
have done any research, tried any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:44 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.031 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2738 March 14, 2019
cases, or done adequate reading know
that the term ‘‘gross negligence’’ is not
unconstitutionally vague, nor is it neg-
ligence.
Now, different States in the Federal
Government may have slightly dif-
ferent definitions of negligence and
gross negligence, but they are substan-
tially the same. It has just never been
a problem with constitutional vague-
ness from the term ‘‘gross negligence.’’
Understanding that, it would bring
one to the conclusion, if Lisa Page is
correct, that the prosecutors in the
Obama Justice Department were say-
ing Hillary Clinton was grossly neg-
ligent handling classified material but
gross negligence is too vague so we are
not going to charge her, then it shows
one of two things: the Obama DOJ had
some of the most ignorant lawyers in
the country working there, or the
Obama DOJ had some exceedingly dis-
honest lawyers working there. You
choose.
Going back to the article, it says: ‘‘In
July 2016, then-FBI Director James
Comey’’—parenthetically, I would in-
sert, another real peach—‘‘publicly an-
nounced at a bombshell press con-
ference that Clinton had been ‘ex-
tremely careless’ in handling classified
information. . . . Federal law states
that gross negligence in handling the
Nation’s intelligence can be punished
criminally with prison time or fines,
and there is no requirement that de-
fendants act intentionally. . . . Origi-
nally, Comey accused the former Sec-
retary of State of being ‘grossly neg-
ligent’ ’’—using that term ‘‘grossly
negligent’’—‘‘in handling classified in-
formation in a draft dated May 2, 2016,
but that was modified to claim that
Clinton had merely been ‘extremely
careless’ in a draft dated June 10, 2016.’’
Comey also said: ‘‘Although there is
evidence of potential violations of the
statutes regarding the handling of clas-
sified information’’—I mean, I am sure
the guy from the Navy that snapped a
few pictures on a submarine and had
absolutely no ill intent whatsoever,
though he apparently was acting reck-
lessly and ended up doing prison time,
I am sure he would love to know that
there was such a high standard applied
to Hillary Clinton while he, who put
his life on the line, ended up having to
do prison time for far less mens rea
than, according to Comey, what Hil-
lary Clinton had.
‘‘Then-Obama administration Attor-
ney General Loretta Lynch was spotted
meeting secretly with former President
Bill Clinton on an airport tarmac as
the probe into Hillary Clinton, which
Lynch was overseeing, continued.’’
And that is pretty amazing: two
planes just happen to sit down and get
over to where two people can get to-
gether. If it weren’t for the reporter
who spotted a guy he thought to be Bill
Clinton, we would never have known
about this.
I wonder how many DOJ officials
would have lied about this if no one
had spotted it. I mean, they lied
enough about other things, but they
got busted being seen out in a remote
spot on the tarmac get-together while
the DOJ jury was still out on what
they were going to do about Hillary
Clinton and she had not testified.
And then we find out, actually, they
never had her testify. They gave immu-
nity to her lawyer, Cheryl Mills, and
all these people who had direct evi-
dence of potential crimes.
And the prosecutors—and I have been
one. You don’t give immunity to some-
one without knowing what they are
going to say. If a lawyer comes to you
and says, ‘‘My client wants immu-
nity,’’ then you say, ‘‘Give us a proffer.
What is your client going to say?’’ Be-
cause we are not just handing out im-
munity and then there is nothing
worth giving immunity to get.
Yet the Obama Justice Department
handed out immunity like candy to
anybody, it appeared, who was associ-
ated and had evidence of potential
crimes. They could have gotten a sub-
poena and gotten laptops of the wit-
nesses, but, instead, the Obama Justice
Department said: Do you know what?
We will give you immunity not know-
ing what you are going to say because
we really don’t want you to say any-
thing.
That is my interpretation, after hav-
ing read the immunity agreement.
And, look, the evidence you have got,
we just want to look, but we promise
you we will never use any of it and we
will give the stuff back. We just want
to look.
That is outrageous. Were these pros-
ecutors that incompetent or were they
that dishonest? It is up to individuals
to judge for themselves. But to use a
term coined by James Comey, no rea-
sonable prosecutor would have done
what they did in that case. They sure
didn’t do it when they were trying to
chase down anything they possibly
could regarding our current President,
Donald Trump.
It was revealed last month that FBI’s
top lawyer in 2016 thought Hillary Clin-
ton and her team should have imme-
diately realized they were mishandling
‘‘ ‘highly classified’ information based
on the obviously sensitive nature of
the emails’ content sent through her
private server. And he believed’’—this
is the FBI’s top lawyer—‘‘that she’’—
Hillary Clinton—‘‘should have been
prosecuted until ‘pretty late’ in the in-
vestigation, according to a transcript
of his closed-door testimony before
congressional committees last Octo-
ber.’’
b 1130
And, of course, being pretty late in
the investigation, actually goes along
with what Lisa Page said; that DOJ
prosecutors said, we are not charging
her.
And then that ties in nicely with the
FBI lawyers saying, Okay, I thought
she should have been prosecuted. But
then it ties in, by the time the DOJ
lawyers/prosecutors said ‘‘we are not
charging her,’’ then he decided, Okay,
maybe she shouldn’t be.
Among the texts between Lisa Page
and Peter Strzok was one concerning
the so-called ‘‘insurance policy.’’
During her interview with the Judici-
ary Committee, July 2018, Page was
questioned at length about the texts,
and essentially referred to the Russia
investigation, the insurance policy re-
ferred to the Russia investigation,
while explaining that officials were
proceeding with caution, concerned
about the implications of the case
while not wanting to go at a total
breakneck speed and risk burning
sources, as they presumed Trump
would be elected anyway.
Further, Lisa Page confirmed inves-
tigators only had a paucity of evidence
at the start.
Comey, last December, similarly ac-
knowledged that when the FBI initi-
ated its counterintelligence probe and
possible collusion between Trump cam-
paign officials and the Russian Govern-
ment in July 2016, investigators,
‘‘didn’t know whether we had any-
thing,’’ and that, ‘‘in fact, when I was
fired as Director in May 2017, I still
didn’t know whether there was any-
thing to it.’’
And that was from Comey.
Trey Gowdy had asked, ‘‘I want to
believe the path you threw out in Andy
McCabe’s office, that there is no way
he gets elected, but I am afraid we
can’t take the risk. It is like an insur-
ance policy in the unlikely event you
die before you are 40.’’ And that was
the quote from the text sent from
Peter Strzok to Lisa Page in August of
2016.
So clearly, they were talking about
coming up with this bogus Russia in-
vestigation as an insurance policy just
in case Donald Trump got elected, then
they could try to take him out of of-
fice, basically, a DOJ coup for the first
time in the history of this country.
And, unfortunately, there is no
George Washington around to stop this
attempted coup that continues today.
‘‘So, upon the opening of the cross-
fire hurricane investigation’’—which
was the name that these DOJ officials
who have been shown to have acted to-
tally inappropriately; that is the name
they gave the investigation into Don-
ald Trump—it goes on to say ‘‘we had a
number of the discussions up through
and including the Director regularly in
which we were trying to find an answer
to the question, right, which is, is
there somebody associated with the
Trump campaign who is working with
the Russians in order to obtain dam-
aging information about Hillary Clin-
ton? And given that it is August, we
were very aware of the speed and sensi-
tivity that we needed to operate
under.’’
It is really amazing.
You see, the way our justice is sup-
posed to work in the United States,
and in every State in the union, if you
have probable cause to believe a crime
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:44 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.032 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2739
March 14, 2019
was committed, then you can go after
someone for that crime.
In the case of Donald Trump, his
campaign, and those that worked with
him, they did just the opposite. They
said, Here is Donald Trump, he has got
a chance of winning—though we don’t
think he will—so let’s try to find some-
thing.
And if you go back and look, you can
find an Op Ed written by, I believe,
Bruce Ohr. And basically, it was from
2007 talking about Russia collusion.
And, of course, Donald Trump was not
mentioned at all. And then when they
came up with this Russia hoax inves-
tigation without any evidence at all,
there are indications that somebody—
perhaps Brennan—had asked the Brit-
ish to spy on Americans so it wouldn’t
be Americans spying on Americans,
which is not supposed to happen unless
there is probable cause to believe they
have engaged in a crime or—under the
Patriot Act—that they are conspiring
with a known foreign terrorist.
That is what we were sold when the
Patriot Act was reauthorized.
But as we have come to find out that
has been greatly loosened up by the
DOJ, CIA, NSA, and they pretty much
go after everybody they want to.
I found out—I had not been aware of
it until this week—that clear back in
2012, the Obama Justice Department
made a motion to the FISA court to
allow them to unmask information
about American citizens if—under this
new incredibly relaxed language—it
might be of assistance to someone out-
side the scope that is supposed to be al-
lowed to see this information, if it
might assist them in assessing other
information.
Well, it doesn’t get much more vague
than that. And I know from having
been on the Judiciary Committee for
years, that until the Obama Adminis-
tration, I had a lot of colleagues on the
other side of the aisle that were ex-
tremely concerned with privacy issues
and the government gathering evidence
without probable cause and the govern-
ment violating the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments.
Somehow during those years, I lost
my colleagues on the other side that
quit being as concerned about privacy
invasions and Fourth and Fifth Amend-
ment violations, but I am not aware of
anybody on our Judiciary Committee
that knew about this motion to just
blow the door wide open. And, I think,
against the wording of the law, they
came up with a motion and got a judge
to sign off, apparently, to say, Okay,
yes, you can unmask and spread infor-
mation to anybody outside the origi-
nally indicated circle, if it might help
them assess other information.
For Heaven’s sake, that is an out-
rage. I couldn’t believe it when I was
reading that motion.
And what I am saying, Mr. Speaker,
it is not classified. It was ordered de-
classified back years ago. But I haven’t
met anybody here in Congress that was
aware that in 2012, back at that time,
the Obama DOJ was going to blow the
door open and start spreading informa-
tion that people should never have had
it, making sure they got it.
And perhaps, that explains to some
extent how somebody like Samantha
Power could have, I think it was hun-
dreds of American citizens’ informa-
tion unmasked. I mean, basically, they
were running our intelligence agency
as a political operation to go after any-
one that they felt like might be a po-
tential problem for a Democratic ad-
ministration.
Very, very alarming.
This article from Town Hall is really
talking about the bill H.R. 1.
I love the idea of making information
more public. It was called For the Peo-
ple legislation. This article says that is
really for the government. I would sub-
mit it is really more for Democratic
politicians. The things in there that
would degrade our election process are
phenomenal.
We really ought to be going back to
paper ballots; that would be the appro-
priate thing to do, and put proper safe-
guards on those ballots. I think it
would be a good thing to do.
I also like RON KIND’s bill—he has
been filing ever since he has been
here—that would require each person
seeking Federal elected office to dis-
close the identity of anyone who do-
nates anything. You have got a $200
floor. And I like what RON KIND, my
colleague on the other side of the aisle,
his bill he has been pushing for years,
you know, whether you are a Repub-
lican or Democrat, we want to elimi-
nate this having people donate without
knowing who is donating.
It leaves open the possibility—and
surely, it has happened—that some-
body with a lot of money could give
$50, $50, $150, over and over and over.
And since you don’t have to report it,
who it came from, they could be vio-
lating—and criminally violating—our
election laws.
So I hope that we will have some
cleanup of election laws, but not the
kind of thing that allows you to go out
and harvest votes that didn’t happen
until after the election.
We have an election day in this coun-
try. And to leave that election open so
that you could have a Lyndon Johnson
style of finding votes after the fact—
whether they voted in alphabetical
order or not—is just not a good idea. It
leaves an opening for stealing elec-
tions.
We have an election day, and there
ought to be a cutoff; no ballots accept-
ed after this day, at this time. And
don’t come bringing in a bunch of bal-
lots the next day after you find out
how many ballots it is going to take to
overturn the election that finished the
day before.
I mean, it is third world-type activ-
ity with this election. If we heard that
a dictator somewhere had put into
place some of the things in H.R. 1, we
would be outraged and say that is what
a dictator does, and it is not right. You
are trying to manipulate the election,
and it is totally inappropriate.
Another topic that is, I think, very
important, we took up in Judiciary
Committee a bill called the Violence
Against Women Act; it hadn’t been re-
authorized in a while. And there has
been inequality in the treatment of
women compared to men in a number
of ways that needed to be addressed.
And the Violence Against Women Act
addresses some of those.
But now this bill goes too far and
does damage to so many of the equality
gains by women over the decades. And
one of the problems created in the new
Violence Against Women Act involves
what most people call transgender, but
the Diagnostics and Statistical Man-
ual, Fifth Edition—which in many
ways the DSM–4, DSM–5—they begin to
incorporate a great deal of politics in
some areas as much as they incor-
porated medicine.
b 1145
The definition or the term given in
DSM–5 for what is commonly called
transgender is someone who suffers
from gender dysphoria. That is a bit of
a reclassification from where DSM–III
and DSM–IV were.
The definition they give for gender
dysphoria is ‘‘distress that accom-
panies the incongruence between one’s
experienced and expressed gender and
one’s assigned or natal gender.’’
Then it also defines dysphoria as a
condition in which a person experi-
ences intense feelings of depression,
discontent, and, in some cases, indiffer-
ence to the world around them.
Some have said, well, dysphoria is
the opposite of euphoria, so it is some-
one who has difficulty dealing with the
gender with which they were born.
That is someone unhappy with, con-
fused about, displeased with, or de-
pressed about the gender which they
have.
We have made so much progress over
the years. I saw it as a felony judge. So
often in cases involving domestic
abuse, involving sexual assault, the
women have not been treated fairly,
and they have been demonized. Their
victimization has not been properly
considered.
Over the years, we have gotten better
and our justice system has gotten bet-
ter. It certainly has in Texas.
Some people, including my old
friend, former Congressman Ted Poe,
another former felony judge from
Houston, saw the way women were not
always treated properly as victims of
sexual assault.
Most D.A.’s offices were required to
have victim’s assistance that could
help, advise, counsel, and comfort vic-
tims of sexual assault. But this Vio-
lence Against Women Act that was
passed by the committee with many of
the Republicans voting ‘‘no’’—maybe
all of us; I am not sure—it sets wom-
en’s rights back significantly.
I am pointing this out with a heart
that has broken for women who I have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.034 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2740 March 14, 2019
seen so abused. Sometimes it was even
harder on the women because they
would end up blaming themselves.
There were many times when I would
call either a woman victim or a child
victim up because I could tell they had
that mentality that ‘‘I probably de-
served what I got.’’
After the trial was over, I would tell
them: You need to understand, this is
not your fault. You didn’t deserve this.
This was a crime committed against
you. You had nothing to do with this.
It was nothing that you should have
done. It was a crime being committed
against you, and you were not properly
protected. For that, I am sorry.
Again, this Violence Against Women
Act does not take into account what
has come to be known. As we have
tried to be more sensitive and caring,
and appropriately so, for female vic-
tims of domestic abuse, sexual assault,
and aggravated sexual assault, the
crimes against women can be, obvi-
ously, committed against men and
have been. But most often, it is against
women and, therefore, deserves special
consideration.
If you go to health.com, this site has
information talking about female vic-
tims of sexual assault. Most people are
familiar with post-traumatic stress dis-
order, PTSD, for soldiers. But this
points out: ‘‘In some ways, the trauma
from sexual assault may be worse than
the trauma from combat because, nor-
mally, soldiers are prepared and
trained for combat.’’ It points out that
PTSD affects about 3.5 percent of U.S.
adults, but women are twice as likely
as men to have PTSD.
For those who are not aware, there is
a difference between men and women,
and these kinds of statistics bear that
out.
Another article from Lindsay Bur-
gess in March of 2018 says: ‘‘For sur-
vivors of sexual assault, the odds of de-
veloping post-traumatic stress dis-
order, PTSD, are high: Up to 94 per-
cent,’’ and it is talking about women
who experience or are victims of as-
sault, ‘‘experience symptoms during
the first 2 weeks after the incident, and
up to 50 percent may struggle long
term. For these survivors, day-to-day
events . . . can hit especially hard. And
like any mental health issue, PTSD
can be debilitating.’’
It also goes on to point out: ‘‘PTSD is
commonly associated with combat vet-
erans, but around 50 percent of PTSD
cases in the U.S. develop in the after-
math of sexual or physical violence.
Despite the high number, it is impor-
tant to recognize that some sexual as-
sault survivors feel ‘okay’ afterward,
and that is equally valid.
‘‘ ‘Being sexually assaulted or abused
is such an invasion of our body, per-
sonal space, and safety,’ says Kandee
Lewis, executive director of The Posi-
tive Results Corporation. ‘People often
can’t move past that point.’
‘‘Psychotherapist Akiami McCoy,
LCSW, LCSW–C, explains that PTSD is
more common among survivors who
felt that their lives were in danger dur-
ing the assault. ‘The brain does not
perform well for a victim during a sex-
ual assault,’ says McCoy. She explains
that this is because the ‘fight or flight’
response kicks in. ‘Unfortunately,
most victims are overpowered, and
they can do neither. They may instead
disassociate themselves from the act,
and that is where the mind escapes the
body until the assault is over.’
‘‘Because dissociation is common
among sexual assault survivors, during
and after the event, a 2015 study looked
into and found strong links between
dissociation and PTSD.’’
It goes on to say that most people
who have lived through major trauma
don’t develop PTSD. Unfortunately,
survivors of sexual assault and rape
have particularly high chances of expe-
riencing symptoms of the disorder.
In fact, the overwhelming majority
of rape victims experience at least
some PTSD symptoms within just 2
weeks. Almost a third of all women
continued to experience their symp-
toms 9 months after being raped. Over-
all, more than two-thirds of all victims
of sexual assault and rape develop
stress reactions that qualify as mod-
erate or severe.
In a study published in 2005 in the
journal ‘‘Behaviour Research and Ther-
apy,’’ a team of British researchers ex-
plored the connection between un-
wanted memories in survivors of sexual
assault and the severity of PTSD
symptoms. The researchers found that
assault survivors who are easily and
frequently triggered by visual remind-
ers of their trauma can experience a
sharp increase in their symptom’s in-
tensity.
Then this goes—I guess it is com-
monly reported—that one out of four
women will be victims of sexual as-
sault. When you consider, if that is ac-
curate, those kinds of numbers, that
you have that many women who have
been sexually assaulted, and they go
into a public restroom that is for
women, in a confined space, having a
biological man come walking in be-
cause he indicates he feels like a
woman that day, it can trigger those
experiences of sexual assault all over
again.
Why would we do that? Women have
made so much progress toward equal-
ity. And I understand the hearts of my
Democratic friends who wanted to
allow transgenders to go in any rest-
room they feel like they should go
into. I understand they want to help
people who are often victims of abuse
themselves. I get the desire to help
them, but why traumatize women when
it is unnecessary?
We had people in the community say,
well, there is no indication anybody
has ever been bothered by having a bio-
logical man come into a women’s rest-
room or private facilities for women. I
am sure they were being sincere. They
were not familiar, but they abound.
That is why there is a lawsuit in
Fresno, California. This is a homeless
shelter. Who goes to homeless shelters?
Often, very often—and I have been
there; I have talked to them—it is
women who have been sexually abused.
Often, it is domestic abuse by a partner
or a spouse or a husband. They have
nowhere else to go. They are afraid if
they go to a friend’s home, that hus-
band will find them. They do have to be
careful.
Right in Marshall, Texas, the inspira-
tion for Kari’s Law that we passed in
the last Congress, she was afraid of her
husband. He was abusive, but she was
supposed to let him see the kids. He
took them to a hotel room, and he
pulled her into the bathroom and beat
her with his fist for many minutes.
Eventually, he took a knife and began
stabbing her over 20 times, ultimately
killing her, while her young daughter
was trying to dial 911, not knowing she
had to dial a prefix.
It was one event out of far too many
events where a victim of domestic
abuse, just trying to hang on and not
be abused further, they go to a home-
less shelter, having been abused, beat-
en, many times raped, and they think,
at a homeless shelter, they would be
protected against triggers that would
make them relive the trauma of their
aggravated rape.
b 1200
When you talk to people who work in
those facilities, they work there be-
cause they care deeply about women
who have been harmed. They have im-
mense hearts caring deeply. That is
why they are there. Yet this law will
end up forcing these women to be co-
habitating with biological men.
Whether they are honest about feel-
ing like a woman or not, why should
we pass laws that force women victims
of sexual assault to be further trauma-
tized?
That is not appropriate for a govern-
ment role.
In this case from the ‘‘Toronto Sun,’’
a predator—who claimed to be
transgender—because of his sexual
crimes had been declared to be a dan-
gerous sexual offender. Let’s face it,
like this guy in Toronto, Canada, since
you don’t have to have any overt proof,
Mr. Speaker, no patent proof that you
feel like a woman, you can just say it,
and people under the new Violence
Against Women Act have to recognize
it, then this will not be an isolated in-
cident.
I have seen it, I have prosecuted it,
and I have sentenced it. These preda-
tors look for any way they can to get
a woman in a defensive position—a
woman or a child—someone whom they
can render helpless. If they will drill
holes through walls so they can spy, do
you think they wouldn’t go to the trou-
ble of walking in?
Because if you drill a hole and spy,
Mr. Speaker, you can be arrested for
being a Peeping Tom. But if you, under
the new proposed laws, simply say: ‘‘I
feel like a woman today,’’ then you can
go in and be a voyeur all you want to,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:49 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.036 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2741
March 14, 2019
and it opens the door to sexual devi-
ants that should not have a door avail-
able to them.
There is another here from ‘‘The Cou-
rier’’ in the U.K. The mom of a super-
market sexual assault victim warns
that her attacker will strike again.
Regarding the lawsuit from the East-
ern District of California about the
man who claimed to be transgender,
why would we pass a law that would
undo the great appropriate advances
that have occurred for women’s rights
toward equality and toward not being
victimized?
I know the intention is to try to help
people who have gender dysphoria, gen-
der confusion, from being victims so
they can walk into any restroom they
want to, but it is a mistake that will
do far more damage to women, and it is
just tragic to have that kind of law in-
cluded in the Violence Against Women
Act.
It was mentioned by a friend across
the aisle—and I know his motivation.
He has a big heart and he cares about
people who are victims, and that in-
cludes people who have gender dys-
phoria—but he was bragging about—ap-
parently according to what he said—
that equality law was being passed yes-
terday that will open the door to equal-
ity for transgender across sports and
education and across the board.
We are already seeing something that
is just incredible. Martina Navratilova
is probably one of the top five women
tennis players of all time and has been
an icon for so many tennis players, es-
pecially for liberal tennis players, lib-
eral women, because she has fought so
for gay rights. Yet she is now being at-
tacked because she dared to say that
she didn’t think that someone who is a
biological man with biological advan-
tages over a biological woman, in most
cases, should be able to compete in
women’s tennis.
How is that something to beat her up
for verbally?
How is that something to abuse her
for?
What will happen to the great
progress of equality for women if that
bill becomes law will be it will elimi-
nate women’s sports. You may occa-
sionally have a woman who desires to
compete as a man who is extraordinary
and can win some things. The doctors
talk about the potential for greater
muscle mass, they are built differently,
can do better in some sports than
women can, as a general rule. And, yes,
I know there are women that could
kick the rear of many men, including
me, I know, I get that. But we are talk-
ing about competition at the highest
levels, and it is grossly unfair to allow
a biological man to compete in wom-
en’s sports. No matter how gender
dysphorically confused the person is, it
is unfair to the great progress of wom-
en’s equality.
What that bill will do if it becomes
the law is it will bring an end to wom-
en’s sports. You will be left with main-
ly men’s sports and co-ed sports—co-ed
sports consisting of the women and the
men who say they are women, and it
will end the equality, the fairness that
has come to be known in Title IX and
through women’s sports and women’s
professional sports, that they will be-
come co-ed sports. It is tremendously
unfair to women.
Now, the final thing I want to bring
up is the resolution we took up in here
regarding hate last week. The reason
that all came about were specific com-
ments by a Member of the House that
most everyone here, not all, but most
believe were anti-Semitic. For those in
Congress who don’t understand, anti-
Semitic comments are not criticism of
one person for something they have
said or done. That is not anti-Semitic,
even if that person happens to be Jew-
ish. It is not. So when I criticized
George Soros for damage I believe he
has done to my country by the things
that he has contributed to, by the dam-
age he has done to countries yearning
to be free in Europe as he has pushed
them toward socialism—why would a
billionaire push people toward social-
ism?
Because socialism means everybody
is treated equally.
It is because he knows that in a So-
cialist country after you eliminate the
middle class, what you are left with,
Mr. Speaker, is a very thin veneer of a
ruling class and everybody else who is
ruled over by the ruling class. That is
where socialism goes. Some billion-
aires think, oh, they will be there in
that tiny, little, ruling class, not un-
derstanding that historically if you go
to full-bore socialism or communism,
you are going to end up killing off the
billionaires and taking their money. So
it is an amazing thing to see that.
I am also aware that even Israel’s de-
fense ministry has pointed out the
damage that George Soros has done to
Israel. Because I have criticized George
Soros, people say: Oh, you are anti-Se-
mitic.
It is not anti-Semitic to criticize
somebody for things they have done,
things they are paying for, or things
they are contributing to just because
they happen to be Jewish. What makes
it anti-Semitic is when you slander or
libel an entire race or group of people
and smear them as all having the same
characteristics and belittle them as a
group.
So there was a resolution that was
supposed to address specific anti-Se-
mitic remarks by a Member of Con-
gress, and then we hear, well, there
were protests because they didn’t want
her condemned for anti-Semitic re-
marks. So it got watered down.
I printed out the copy of the resolu-
tion as it was at 3 o’clock that after-
noon. I came over here ready to speak
against that resolution because it had
been so watered down, and I was told:
well, actually, that one got pulled and
they watered it down even further, and
here is the new one, as of about 3:20
that afternoon.
It kept being watered down until it
basically said that we are against all
kinds of hate. Of course, they didn’t
mention the kind of political hate that
would cause a Democrat—and if it had
been a Republican who supported Don-
ald Trump, that would have been what
everybody talked about, oh, gosh, this
is what Trump inspires, but since it
was a Bernie Sanders supporter, I don’t
know of any Republican, including me,
who has blamed BERNIE SANDERS for
the criminal who shot STEVE SCALISE
and tried to kill my baseball friends
and colleagues. He wanted to kill them
all, but that wasn’t singled out.
In fact, when we were taking testi-
mony on gun crime in Judiciary, the
majority would not even allow STEVE
SCALISE to testify. Oh, well, if he
comes in and testifies, it might open
the door to all kinds of other Members
of Congress.
Well, why don’t you just say that we
will restrict the testimony from Mem-
bers of Congress to those who have
been shot by somebody who hates them
and their party?
How about that?
But STEVE was not even allowed to
come testify before our committee.
That kind of thing was not mentioned
in what was, basically, we are against
all kinds of hate, except for that, and
we are also not going to call out the
hate that causes the hate hoaxes which
there seem to be a rash of people say-
ing they are the victim of some hate
when actually it is their hate that cre-
ated a hoax.
But I have made loud and clear rep-
etitiously, the reason I and 22 others
voted against that resolution was be-
cause it did not do what it should have
done, and that is, call out specific anti-
Semitic comments.
Now, some were bothered that I said
that there is no moral equivalence be-
tween the Holocaust and say the years
of slavery, the slavery that is con-
tinuing today. I was shocked to find
out this year that there are 40 million
slaves in the world today, more than
any time in history. We ought to do all
we can to stop it. It is horrendous. It
did so much damage to the core of this
country for far too long. But there is a
special hatred that the Jewish people
have experienced that we need to stop
when it starts. For those morons who
didn’t know, I voted against the first
anti-hate resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 12 o’clock and 15 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, March
18, 2019, at noon.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MR7.038 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2742 March 14, 2019
376. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s joint final rule — Community Rein-
vestment Act Regulations (RIN: 3064-AE97)
received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
377. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Limited Exception for a
Capped Amount of Reciprocal Deposits From
Treatment as Brokered Deposits (RIN: 3064-
AE89) received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
378. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Depository Institution
Management Interlocks Act (RIN: 3064-AE92)
received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
379. A letter from the Senior Counsel for
Regulatory Affairs, Office of Financial Re-
search, Department of the Treasury, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Ongo-
ing Data Collection of Centrally Cleared
Transactions in the U.S. Repurchase Agree-
ment Market (RIN: 1505-AC58) received
March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
380. A letter from the PRAO Branch Chief,
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Hiring Flexibility Under Profes-
sional Standards [FNS-2017-0039] (RIN: 0584-
AE60) received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
381. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Office of Fossil Energy, De-
partment of Energy, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — SPR Standard Sales
Provisions (RIN: 1901-AB29) received March
13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
382. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Policy and Management Staff, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Food
Additives Permitted in Feed and Drinking
Water of Animals; Selenomethionine Hy-
droxy Analogue [Docket No.: FDA-2015-F-
2712] received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
383. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; GA: Emis-
sion Reduction Credits [EPA-R04-OAR-2009-
0226; FRL-9990-74-Region 4] received March
13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
384. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Massachu-
setts; High Occupancy Vehicle Lanes [EPA-
R01-OAR-2018-0790; FRL-9990-94-Region 1] re-
ceived March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
385. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Quality Designation for the
2010 Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Primary National
Ambient Air Quality Standard; Arkansas;
Redesignation of the Independence County
Area [EPA-R06-OAR-2018-0624; FRL-9990-00-
Region 6] received March 13, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
386. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Mary-
land; Amendment to Control of Emissions of
Volatile Organic Compounds from Consumer
Products [EPA-R03-OAR-2018-0153; FRL-9990-
86-Region 3] received March 13, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
387. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Implementation Plans; California; South
Coast Serious Area Plan for the 2006 PM2.5
NAAQS; Correction [EPA-R09-OAR-2017-0490;
FRL-9990-89-Region 9] received March 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
388. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Clean Air Plans; 2008 8-Hour
Ozone Nonattainment Area Requirements;
San Joaquin Valley, California; Correction
[EPA-R09-OAR-2018-0535; FRL-9990-90-Region
9] received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
389. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Oklahoma: Final Authorization
of State Hazardous Waste Management Pro-
gram Revision [EPA-R06-RCA-2017-0324;
FRL-9990-04-Region 6] received March 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
390. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Con-
sumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule — Ad-
vanced Methods to Target and Eliminate Un-
lawful Robocalls [CG Docket No.: 17-59] re-
ceived March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
391. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Dis-
ability Rights Office, Consumer and Govern-
mental Affairs Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting the Com-
mission’s final rule — Misuse of Internal
Protocol (IP) Captioned Telephone Service
[CG Docket No.: 13-24]; Telecommunications
Relay Services and Speech-to-Speech Serv-
ices for Individuals with Hearing and Speech
Disabilities [CG Docket No.: 03-123] received
March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
392. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Legal
and Policy, Auctions Division, Office of Eco-
nomics and Analytics, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting the Com-
mission’s fail rule — Connect America Fund
[WC Docket No.: 10-90]; Universal Service Re-
form — Mobility Fund [WT Docket No.: 10-
208] received March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
393. A letter from the General Counsel,
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
transmitting the Commission’s final rule —
Implementation of Amended Section
203(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Power Act [Docket
No.: RM19-4-000; Order No.: 855] received
March 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
394. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-563, ‘‘Short-Term Rental Regulation
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. BRADY (for himself, Mr. SMITH
of Nebraska, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
NUNES, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. MARCH-
ANT, Mr. REED, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. FER-
GUSON, Mr. ESTES, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mrs. MIL-
LER):
H.R. 1753. A bill to amend part A of title IV
of the Social Security Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr. BARR,
Ms. TITUS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. CASTOR
of Florida, Mr. KILMER, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. DELAURO, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. COLLINS of New York,
Ms. GABBARD, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
WATKINS, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. COOK,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. WOODALL, Mr.
HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 1754. A bill to improve the integrity
and safety of horseracing by requiring a uni-
form anti-doping and medication control
program to be developed and enforced by an
independent Horseracing Anti-Doping and
Medication Control Authority; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ROY:
H.R. 1755. A bill to provide for congres-
sional approval of national emergency dec-
larations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committees
on Foreign Affairs, and Rules, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. TLAIB (for herself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. COHEN, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. OMAR, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Ms. JAYAPAL, and Ms. SHALALA):
H.R. 1756. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to prohibit the use of con-
sumer reports and consumer information in
making any determination involving auto
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MR7.000 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2743
March 14, 2019
insurance with respect to a consumer, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself and
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois):
H.R. 1757. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the limitation
on the amount individuals can deduct for
certain State and local taxes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mrs. HARTZLER:
H.R. 1758. A bill to provide for the retro-
active application of the mandatory increase
in insurance coverage under the
Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance for
members of the Armed Forces deployed to
combat theaters of operation; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. MURPHY (for herself, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico, and Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 1759. A bill to amend title III of the
Social Security Act to extend reemployment
services and eligibility assessments to all
claimants for unemployment compensation,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. FLORES (for himself and Mr.
MCNERNEY):
H.R. 1760. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish and carry out a program
to support the availability of HA-LEU for do-
mestic commercial use, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. HARRIS, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
GUEST, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. LAMALFA,
and Mr. DUNCAN):
H.R. 1761. A bill to prohibit Federal fund-
ing of State firearm ownership databases,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CASE,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. COOPER, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KIND, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. LONG, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RICE of
South Carolina, Mr. SHIMKUS, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. WOODALL,
and Mr. WOMACK):
H.R. 1762. A bill to provide high-skilled
visas for nationals of the Republic of Korea,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mr. KATKO, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois):
H.R. 1763. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the dis-
tribution of additional residency positions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1764. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act with respect to
permitting terms, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr.
MARCHANT, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Ms. ADAMS, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mr.
PERRY):
H.R. 1765. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage
under the Medicare program for FDA-ap-
proved qualifying colorectal cancer screen-
ing blood-based tests, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. STEFANIK, and
Mr. HARDER of California):
H.R. 1766. A bill to establish a postsec-
ondary student data system; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COLE, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. EMMER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. KATKO, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Ms. MENG, Mr. PETERSON,
Miss RICE of New York, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. STAUBER, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. TONKO, and Ms. WILD):
H.R. 1767. A bill to increase the number of
States that may conduct Medicaid dem-
onstration programs to improve access to
community mental health services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. LONG,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mr. WITTMAN):
H.R. 1768. A bill to reauthorize subtitle G
of title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005,
relating to diesel emissions reduction, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. SIMP-
SON, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. KIND,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. KILDEE, Mr.
SCHRADER, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. REED, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. TONKO, Mr. COL-
LINS of New York, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. LONG, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, and Mr. DELGADO):
H.R. 1769. A bill to require enforcement
against misbranded milk alternatives; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself, Mr.
PETERSON, and Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 1770. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come certain amounts realized on the dis-
position of property raised or produced by a
student agriculturist, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. WOODALL,
Ms. BASS, and Ms. GABBARD):
H.R. 1771. A bill to require consultations on
reuniting Korean Americans with family
members in North Korea; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 1772. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to penalize false communica-
tions to cause an emergency response, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. HUFFMAN, and Mr.
DESAULNIER):
H.R. 1773. A bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to the women in
the United States who joined the workforce
during World War II, providing the aircraft,
vehicles, weaponry, ammunition and other
material to win the war, that were referred
to as ‘‘Rosie the Riveter’’, in recognition of
their contributions to the United States and
the inspiration they have provided to ensu-
ing generations; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on House Administration, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI):
H.R. 1774. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit
against income tax for employees who par-
ticipate in qualified apprenticeship pro-
grams; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. STAUBER (for himself and Mr.
DESAULNIER):
H.R. 1775. A bill to establish a task force on
NOTAM improvements, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1776. A bill to amend the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981 to prohibit importation,
exportation, transportation, sale, receipt, ac-
quisition, and purchase in interstate or for-
eign commerce, or in a manner substantially
affecting interstate or foreign commerce, of
any live animal of any prohibited wildlife
species; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. CRIST, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Ms. HAALAND, and Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia):
H.R. 1777. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to provide equal treatment
of LGBT older individuals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. BRINDISI (for himself and Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1778. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide a special rule
for the period of admission of H-2A non-
immigrants employed as dairy workers and
sheepherders, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Education and Labor,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 1779. A bill to amend titles 10 and 38,
United States Code, to authorize a person
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MR7.100 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2744 March 14, 2019
awarded the Medal of Honor to designate an
individual to receive the special pension
after death, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Armed Services,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. NEAL,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, and Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 1780. A bill to establish the Commis-
sion to study the potential creation of a Na-
tional Museum of Irish American History,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on House Administration, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. RICE of
South Carolina, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
GIANFORTE, and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 1781. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission with access to certain drug
payment information, including certain re-
bate information; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1782. A bill to establish and strength-
en projects that defray the cost of related in-
struction associated with pre-apprenticeship
and qualified apprenticeship programs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1783. A bill to provide for increased
scrutiny with respect to pesticide residues of
glyphosate, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
HECK, Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. MOORE, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. SABLAN, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Ms. WEXTON, Mr. COOPER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. DEAN,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. TONKO, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. WILD, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. PALLONE,
Ms. ESHOO, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. BERA, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. RUIZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. KENNEDY,
Ms. MENG, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
LUJÁN, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. CLAY,
Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Ms. WATERS, Ms. DELBENE, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 1784. A bill to allow Americans to earn
paid sick time so that they can address their
own health needs and the health needs of
their families; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on House Administration, and
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOLDEN (for himself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1785. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to exempt certain 16-
and 17-year-old individuals employed in tim-
ber harvesting entities or mechanized timber
harvesting entities from child labor laws,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. YOUNG, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 1786. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the limitation on
the cover over of distilled spirits taxes to
Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands and to trans-
fer a portion of such cover over to the Puerto
Rico Conservation Trust Fund; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Ms. FRANKEL, and Mr.
DEUTCH):
H.R. 1787. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
impose certain additional requirements on
applicants for COPS grants, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. HILL of California (for herself,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
COX of California, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. ROUDA, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. ROSE of New York, and Mr.
BABIN):
H.R. 1788. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to limit the penalty for
late enrollment under part B of the Medicare
Program to 15 percent and twice the period
of no enrollment, and to exclude periods of
COBRA, retiree, and VA coverage from such
late enrollment penalty; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina):
H.R. 1789. A bill to eliminate the discount
for UHF television stations for purposes of
the limitation on the aggregate national au-
dience reach of television broadcast stations
in which a party may have a cognizable in-
terest; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr.
SCHWEIKERT):
H.R. 1790. A bill to require any amounts re-
maining in Members’ Representational Al-
lowances at the end of a fiscal year to be de-
posited in the Treasury and used for deficit
reduction or to reduce the Federal debt; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for
himself, Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, and Mr.
WITTMAN):
H.R. 1791. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exempt survivor benefit
annuity plan payments from the individual
alternative minimum tax; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LEVIN of California (for him-
self, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. HILL of
California, Mrs. LURIA, and Ms.
SPANBERGER):
H.R. 1792. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to address health, safety, and
environmental hazards at private military
housing units, to prohibit the payment by
members of the Armed Forces of deposits or
other fees relating to such housing units,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 1793. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that a deduction
equal to fair market value shall be allowed
for charitable contributions of literary, mu-
sical, artistic, or scholarly compositions cre-
ated by the donor; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 1794. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exclusion
from gross income for AmeriCorps edu-
cational awards; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 1795. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Defense, upon request of the Ministry of
Defense of Israel and with the concurrence of
the Secretary of State, to carry out re-
search, development, test, and evaluation ac-
tivities, on a joint basis with Israel, to estab-
lish directed energy capabilities that address
threats to the United States, deployed forces
of the United States, or Israel, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, and Mr. VEASEY):
H.R. 1796. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the qualifying
advanced coal project credit, and for other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MR7.100 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2745
March 14, 2019
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 1797. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to remove the authority of the
National Capital Planning Commission with
respect to property owned by the District of
Columbia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 1798. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the deduction
allowed for student loan interest and to ex-
clude from gross income discharges of in-
come contingent or income-based student
loan indebtedness; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. COOPER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
COLE, Miss RICE of New York, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. CRIST, Mr. TURNER, and
Mr. PETERS):
H.R. 1799. A bill to amend the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for
determining which States and political sub-
divisions are subject to section 4 of the Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 1800. A bill to modify the minimum
allocation requirement for the emergency
solutions grants program; to the Committee
on Financial Services.
By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself and Mr.
CARBAJAL):
H.R. 1801. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to develop a strategy to recruit and
retain mental health providers, to direct the
Secretaries of the military departments to
develop medication monitoring programs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself, Mr.
EMMER, and Mr. PETERSON):
H.R. 1802. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to waive the requirement of
certain veterans to make copayments for
hospital care and medical services in the
case of an error by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WALDEN:
H.R. 1803. A bill to nullify the Supple-
mental Treaty Between the United States of
America and the Confederated Tribes and
Bands of Indians of Middle Oregon, concluded
on November 15, 1865; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. WALKER (for himself and Mr.
RICHMOND):
H.R. 1804. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to prohibit qualified ama-
teur sports organizations from prohibiting or
substantially restricting the use of an ath-
letes name, image, or likeness, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. KILMER, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
Mr. TURNER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. MOULTON, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. COLE, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. LATTA, and Mr. HICE of
Georgia):
H.R. 1805. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the centennial of the establishment
of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1806. A bill to amend the Marine
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to protect
the cultural practices and livelihoods of pro-
ducers of Alaska Native handicrafts and fos-
silized ivory products, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1807. A bill to extend the authoriza-
tion of appropriations to the Department of
Veterans Affairs for purposes of awarding
grants to veterans service organizations for
the transportation of highly rural veterans;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr.
BABIN, and Mr. WRIGHT):
H.J. Res. 51. A joint resolution proposing a
balanced budget amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ROUDA:
H. Con. Res. 25. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the necessity of preserving official
and unofficial records of meetings between
the President of the United States and for-
eign leaders, for the purposes of promoting
transparency and the national security of
the United States of America; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H. Res. 229. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the month of August as
National Destroyer Recognition Month; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. COOK, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, and Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER):
H. Res. 230. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States condemns all forms of vio-
lence against children globally and recog-
nizes the harmful impacts of violence
against children; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. HAYES (for herself, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. NADLER, Mr. DEUTCH,
and Ms. DELAURO):
H. Res. 231. A resolution keeping guns out
of classrooms; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. HIMES, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma):
H. Res. 232. A resolution expressing support
for designation of March 14, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Pi Day’’; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SHERMAN, and Mr.
DOGGETT):
H. Res. 233. A resolution condemning the
Government of the Philippines for its contin-
ued detention of Senator Leila De Lima,
calling for her immediate release, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SIRES, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. VARGAS,
Mr. VELA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. SOTO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Ms. TITUS, Mr. NADLER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms.
SPEIER, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms. ESCOBAR,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and
Mr. RASKIN):
H. Res. 234. A resolution recognizing the
heritage, culture, and contributions of
Latinas in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H. Res. 235. A resolution recognizing Wom-
en’s History Month and the historic con-
tributions of women to the American labor
movement; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H. Res. 236. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
welfare programs discourage marriage and
hurt the institution of the family in the
United States; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
BARR, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. TITUS, and Mr.
SWALWELL of California):
H. Res. 237. A resolution expressing support
for designation of March 21, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Rosie the Riveter Day’’; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. NORTON, and Ms.
SPEIER):
H. Res. 238. A resolution recognizing the
cultural and historical significance of
Nowruz; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H. Res. 239. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to re-
move the motion to recommit; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. MEADOWS, Miss RICE of
New York, Ms. NORTON, and Ms.
TITUS):
H. Res. 240. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of July 30, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Whistleblower Appreciation Day’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. STEUBE (for himself, Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER, Mr. DUNCAN, and Mr.
GOHMERT):
H. Res. 241. A resolution condemning the
anti-Semitic comments of Representative
Ilhan Omar from Minnesota; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MR7.100 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2746 March 14, 2019
the Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Eth-
ics, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
6. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the General Assembly of the State of New
Jersey, relative to Assembly Resolution No.
85, urging Congress to enact the Military
Surviving Spouses Equity Act; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
7. Also, a memorial of the General Assem-
bly of the State of New Jersey, relative to
Assembly Resolution No. 163, urging the
United States Congress to pass legislation to
automatically enroll veterans for benefits
they are entitled to in the United States De-
partment of Veterans Affairs system; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
8. Also, a memorial of the General Assem-
bly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, rel-
ative to House Resolution No. 122, com-
mending and supporting the President of the
United States and his decision to secure our
borders by declaring a national emergency,
and commending and thanking the men and
women of the United States Immigration
and Customs Enforcement; jointly to the
Committees on the Judiciary, Ways and
Means, and Homeland Security.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. KING of New York introduced a
bill (H.R. 1808) for the relief of
Alemseghed Mussie Tesfamical;
which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. BRADY:
H.R. 1753.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 1754.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. ROY:
H.R. 1755.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1 § 8
By Ms. TLAIB:
H.R. 1756.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article l, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 1757.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitution of the United States, Article
1, Section 8
By Mrs. HARTZLER:
H.R. 1758.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mrs. MURPHY:
H.R. 1759.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, which grants
Congress the power to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 1760.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 1761.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Ariticle 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this
Consitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof’’ and the Second Amendment of the
U.S. Constitution, which states that the ‘‘A
well regulated militia, being necesary to the
security of a free state, the right of the peo-
ple to keep and bear arms, shall not be in-
fringed.’’
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1762.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 1763.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion [Page H3003]
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1764.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 1765.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3—Congress has
the ability to regulate Commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 1766.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18—to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 1767.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 1768.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 1769.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. McCAUL:
H.R. 1770.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 1771.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion [Page Hl 0170]
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 1772.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing powers and all Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or in any
Depattment or Officer thereof.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1773.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 1774.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of, and the
Sixteenth Amendment to, the United States
Constitution. [Page H4186]
By Mr. STAUBER:
H.R. 1775.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 3 (related
to the regulation of Commerce with foreign
Nation, and among the several States, and
with Indian tribes).
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 1776.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. BONAM1C1:
H.R. 1777.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 1778.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 1779.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 1780.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
H.R. 1781.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MR7.100 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2747
March 14, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1782.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 1 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1783.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1784.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 1 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GOLDEN:
H.R. 1785.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 1786.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States; [ . . . ]
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes; [ . . . ]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
Moreover, the Congress has the power to
enact this legislation pursuant to Article IV,
Section 3, which provides, in relevant part,
as follows:
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States; and
nothing in this Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to Prejudice any Claims of the
United States, or of any particular State.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 1787.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. HILL of California:
H.R. 1788.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 1789.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1790.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington:
H.R. 1791.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1: ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and a House
of Representatives
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 1792.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to make
rules for the government and regulation of
the land and naval forces, as enumerated in
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 1793.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 1794.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 1795.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 1796.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government ofthe
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 1797.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following: clause 17 of
section 8 of article I of the Constitution.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 1798.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 1799.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Fifteenth Amendment, Section 2, Section
1: The right of citizens of the United States
to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the
U.S. or by any State on account of race,
color, or perilous condition of servitude.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 1800.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to clause 3(d)(l) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee finds the authority for this
legislation in article I, section 8 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 1801.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8.
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 1802.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8.
By Mr. WALDEN:
H.R. 1803.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power of Congress to regulate commerce
with Indian Tribes).
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 1804.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Mr. WENSTRUP:
H.R. 1805.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 5 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution: ‘‘The Congress shall have the
power . . . to coin Money, regulate the Value
thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the
Standard of Weights and Measures.’’
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1806.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
‘‘The Congress shall have the power to reg-
ulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among several states, and with the Indian
Tribes’’
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1807.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 1808.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
H.J. Res. 51.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article V of the Constitution, which grants
Congress the authority, whenever two thirds
of both Houses deem it necessary, to propose
amendments to the Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. LYNCH, and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 95: Mrs. AXNE and Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 101: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 273: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 302: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 303: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi,
Mr. STEUBE, Mr. LATTA, Mr. RESCHENTHALER,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, and Mr. HUD-
SON.
H.R. 307: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 444: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Ms. LOF-
GREN.
H.R. 445: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 500: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. COSTA, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, Mr. COOK, Mr. CARTER of Georgia,
Mr. CALVERT, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 597: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 613: Ms. SLOTKIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:49 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.015 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2748 March 14, 2019
H.R. 641: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 647: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 656: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 662: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 677: Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 689: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 692: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 693: Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 712: Ms. HILL of California and Mr.
LAMB.
H.R. 730: Mr. GALLAGHER and Mrs.
HARTZLER.
H.R. 741: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 754: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 759: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 794: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 816: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 838: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. CLAY,
and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 873: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 906: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska and Mr.
COOK.
H.R. 948: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 949: Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 959: Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Miss RICE of New York, Ms. WILD, and
Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 960: Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Miss RICE of New York, Ms. WILD, and
Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 978: Mr. HORSFORD and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1002: Ms. SHALALA, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1004: Mr. MEEKS and Miss RICE of New
York.
H.R. 1044: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. GOMEZ,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. KEATING, and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1066: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 1073: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1081: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. OLSON, and Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 1104: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Ms. LOF-
GREN.
H.R. 1117: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1179: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1185: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1195: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
BARR, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. HECK, and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 1226: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. HOLD-
ING, Mr. LAHOOD, and Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1232: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1237: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1254: Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1255: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1256: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1285: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1298: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
CROW, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. OMAR, and
Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1306: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 1310: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1325: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1328: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1348: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1354: Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CLYBURN,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. EVANS, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. JEFFRIES, MS.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1379: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1380: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1397: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 1423: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1434: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1439: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 1454: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1459: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 1473: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 1504: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1545: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1553: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1556: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1573: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1581: Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 1595: Ms. MENG, Mr. CASTRO of Texas,
Mr. MOULTON, Ms. DEAN, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, and
Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1610: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1615: Mr. KIM, Mr. PETERS, and Mr.
GOLDEN.
H.R. 1616: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1622: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. GAETZ, Ms. MENG, Ms. ESCOBAR,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. AGUILAR,
and Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 1629: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1630: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 1641: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and Mr. CARSON
of Indiana.
H.R. 1644: Mr. LYNCH, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and
Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1673: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 1690: Mr. NADLER, Ms. PRESSLEY, and
Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 1730: Mr. LATTA and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 1739: Mr. BUCK.
H.R. 1748: Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
POCAN, Miss RICE of New York, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. MOORE, Mr. SOTO, and Mr.
KING of New York.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. KIND.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. COSTA.
H. Res. 23: Ms. HILL of California, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. SERRANO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama.
H. Res. 54: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
GOLDEN, and Mr. NEGUSE.
H. Res. 92: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 107: Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. LATTA, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mr. NORMAN.
H. Res. 114: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington
and Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H. Res. 124: Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. OMAR, Mr. BERA, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. BASS, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
VELA, and Mr. ROUDA.
H. Res. 141: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 173: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
DELAURO, Mrs. TORRES of California, and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 1004: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR7.018 H14MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1855
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 2019 No. 46
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Our Father in Heaven, we praise You
for the greatness of Your faithfulness.
Faithfully guide our lawmakers along
the path that leads away from pride,
providing them with the humility that
comes with wisdom. Lord, help them to
remember that in the multitude of
counselors, there is safety. May this
knowledge prompt them to be quick to
listen, slow to speak, and slow to
anger. Open their hearts to Your love,
their minds to Your truth, and their
desires to Your guidance. Replenish
them daily with Your grace and power.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 1 AND H.R. 1617
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there are two bills at the
desk due for a second reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bills by title for the
second time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1) to expand Americans’ access
to the ballot box, reduce the influence of big
money in politics, and strengthen ethics
rules for public servants, and for other pur-
poses.
A bill (H.R. 1617) to direct the Director of
National Intelligence to submit intelligence
assessments of the intentions of the political
leadership of the Russian Federation, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar.
f
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
later today, the Senate will vote on a
resolution related to the state of emer-
gency the President has declared on
our southern border. Let me first say, I
support the President’s decision. So I
will vote today to uphold it and reject
this resolution of disapproval.
I want to begin where this whole dis-
cussion should begin—beyond all the
partisan rhetoric and denials of reality
we see from our friends across the
aisle, just the facts of the matter, and
the facts are not at all ambiguous.
There is a clear border security and hu-
manitarian crisis on the southern bor-
der of the United States of America.
It was only last week that the Presi-
dent’s top officials in the matter—Sec-
retary Nielsen and CBP Commissioner
McAleenan—each came before Congress
to once again lay all this out.
The man charged with protecting our
Nation’s borders didn’t mince words
ahead of last week’s hearing. This is
what he had to say: ‘‘The system is
well beyond capacity, and remains at
the breaking point.’’
The system is well beyond capacity
and remains at the breaking point. The
Commissioner pointed out to our col-
leagues on the Judiciary Committee
that the 76,000 attempted illegal cross-
ings documented in February marked
an 11-year high for that month, and,
based on CBP projections, by the mid-
dle of this month—tomorrow—appre-
hensions for fiscal year 2019 will al-
ready be twice what they were in all of
fiscal year 2017.
In front of the House Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, the Secretary of
Homeland Security elaborated by say-
ing the following: ‘‘Our capacity is al-
ready severely strained, but these in-
creases will overwhelm the system
completely.’’
This is one of the President’s senior
advisers—a Cabinet Secretary—and she
is telling Members of Congress that the
current situation is very much a crisis,
one that requires immediate action.
Over the past 5 years, CBP has re-
corded a 620-percent increase in appre-
hensions of family units at the U.S.-
Mexico border. Last year’s figure
marked an alltime high.
Research suggests upward of 30 per-
cent of women apprehended at the bor-
der report experiencing sexual assault
during the journeys. Lately, a daily av-
erage of 56 individuals taken into CBP
custody have required emergency med-
ical care.
The men and women of the Border
Patrol are great. They are well trained,
they are highly skilled, and they vol-
unteered for a very challenging job, but
today they are facing challenges they
are not fully equipped to overcome.
It is no secret I take the Senate as an
institution extremely seriously. I take
the separation of powers extremely se-
riously. I take Congress’s prerogative
over appropriations extremely seri-
ously, but—as I argued yesterday in
the context of the Yemen resolution—
the Senate should not be in the busi-
ness of misusing specific resolutions to
express opinions on more general mat-
ters.
President Trump has not invoked
some vague article II authority or sim-
ply swept aside existing law, as Presi-
dent Obama did to establish his DACA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.000 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1856 March 14, 2019
policy. He has simply operated within
existing law—the National Emer-
gencies Act of 1976—to invoke a narrow
set of authorities to reprogram a nar-
row set of funds.
If Congress has grown uneasy with
this new law, as many have, then we
should amend it. If the 116th Congress
regrets the degree of flexibility the
94th Congress gave the Executive, the
116th Congress has the ability to do
something about it. I have suggested to
the chair of the Homeland Security
Committee that they examine how the
law can be updated to reflect these con-
cerns. I hope they can report bipartisan
solutions through the regular order
that the full Senate can actually take
up.
Let’s not lose sight of the particular
question that is before us later today,
whether the facts tell us there is truly
a humanitarian and security crisis on
our southern border and whether the
Senate, for some reason, feels this par-
ticular emergency on our own border
does not rise to the level of the 31 other
national emergencies which are cur-
rently in effect.
In my own view, these narrow ques-
tions are not especially difficult ones
to answer. The President is operating
within existing law, and the crisis on
our border is all too real. So I will vote
to support the President’s decision
later today, and I encourage our col-
leagues to do the same.
f
TRIBUTE TO ‘‘STEW’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on a completely different matter, few
of us can aspire to the fame and for-
tune that are signified when a celebrity
is known by just one name.
There is Cher; there was Prince;
there is Madonna; and there is ‘‘Stew.’’
Everybody knows Stew—not Don Stew-
art, certainly not Don, just Stew.
For more than 12 years, Stew has
been the larger-than-life personality
patrolling the Ohio Clock corridor,
camping out in the Press Gallery, and
prowling the hallways of the Capitol
complex—the guy who knows every-
thing about policy, procedure, and
communications with the office just off
the Senate floor.
Stew is one of the best known staff
members in all of Congress. It has been
my great fortune to lean heavily on
him every single day for more than a
decade as my communications director
and deputy chief of staff.
So, you can imagine, it is proving dif-
ficult to grasp that today is the very
last workday I will have Stew by my
side. After serving so well for so long,
he is taking a leave—shall we say—for
greener pastures.
So, this morning, I am exacting a lit-
tle revenge. I am doing the one thing I
suspect will make my deputy chief of
staff’s stomach churn more than any-
thing else. I am actually turning the
spotlight on him.
Now, the complete ‘‘Legend of Stew’’
is somewhat of a winding tale. This
scrappy son of Riverside, CA, did not
stroll a typical path to the corridors of
power.
What came after high school was
work, including what I understand was
a spell as a bouncer. I am certain that
position offered no useful preparation
at all for wrangling our distinguished
friends in the press corps. Then came
Army service, then back to school in
Georgia, and then politics.
Our late colleague Senator Coverdell
hired Stew to represent him with his
constituents down in Georgia. Not long
after, he asked him to relocate to
Washington.
The way I understand it, the ink was
barely dry on Stew’s lease, and the un-
packing had just started when his boss
tragically passed away, but Stew land-
ed on his feet. He found his way to a
pair of tough Texans, handling press
for Senator Phil Gramm and then Sen-
ator CORNYN. He became famous as the
communications director who could
outsmart everybody and outwork ev-
erybody in a town where it is very hard
to do either.
That is where Stew caught my eye.
As I prepared, in 2006, for the possi-
bility of becoming Republican leader, I
knew we would need the most sophisti-
cated communications shop a Senate
leader had ever constructed, and it was
clear Stew was the guy to build it.
Something else quickly became clear
too. Stew was not quite like anybody
else any of us had ever met before. One
former colleague recalls that Stew
would end a phone call with a plan al-
ready formed in his mind, then push off
his desk with both hands, sending his
rolling chair rocketing backward and
slamming into the wall behind him.
That high-octane crash was the official
notification that Stew was about to
make something happen. ‘‘It was really
endearing,’’ this colleague explained,
‘‘in retrospect.’’
Restless energy has always been
Stew’s calling card. Every news story,
every request from reporters, every
shift in public sentiment, Stew was lit-
erally on top of it all. Seven days a
week, almost literally 24 hours a day.
I was recently reminded that, in
Stew’s early days with me, some
around the Capitol questioned whether
he was an actual person or some kind
of automated email system our office
had built to blast out memos and bul-
letins literally around the clock.
The instant mobile devices started to
provide email alerts, Stew’s bat-like
sleeping habits and inexhaustible work
ethic probably rendered half the alarm
clocks in Washington completely obso-
lete.
Questions, answers, press clippings,
battle plans, they would pour into
inboxes until after midnight, pause for
a couple of hours, and resume before
anyone else had even woken up, but
circadian rhythms weren’t the only
thing Stew’s presence reprogrammed.
His energy, his careful foresight, his
patriotism, all these things were just
as infectious.
As our chief spokesman, key strate-
gist, close adviser, team leader, mo-
rale-builder, resident dog lover, heavy
metal music aficionado, and happy
warrior, Stew helped me in my office
through the Iraq war, the financial cri-
sis, seismic policy battles, nomination
debates, three different Presidents, and
two reelection campaigns.
No matter what the day brought, I
always knew what my deputy chief of
staff would bring—razor-sharp in-
stincts, a level head, a steady hand,
and a boatload of integrity. For more
than 12 years, I entrusted Stew with
my words, my goals, and my reputa-
tion, and he has never let me down. He
never flagged. He never slowed. Our
watchdog never lost a step. He is to-
tally trustworthy, completely reliable,
and unbelievably competent—the
greatest luxury a leader could have.
With these characteristics, you
might think the person I am describing
could be a little stiff, a little stern.
Maybe that energy would occasionally
boil over into harsh words or heated
moments. But, remember, Stew is a bit
of an unusual guy. That intensity
doesn’t overflow into frustration or un-
kindness or sharp words; instead, it
overflows into generosity, good-
heartedness, and compassion.
Stew is famous around Washington
for his encyclopedic memory of birth-
days, kids’ birthdays, and anniver-
saries. Like clockwork, notes and
greeting cards arrive, and texts and
emails roll in. What I am saying is that
work challenges aren’t the only thing
Stew is good at keeping in perspective.
I was reminded of that fact a few
months back when Stew brought his
mother, Nancy, to visit here in the
Senate. For all the history Stew has
helped make, for every victory when he
has allowed himself a brief smile, his
colleagues aren’t sure they have ever
seen him happier than when he was
ushering his mom around the corridors
and showing her all he has built.
For all Stew’s own accomplishments,
we aren’t sure we have ever seen him
prouder than when he brags on his
daughter Kylie. Lately, that has meant
her career in software engineering and
the apps she has created. Stew loves
his family. He is loyal to his family. It
is just our good luck that he came to
see the Senate as part of that family as
well.
My former chief of staff reminded me
of the day he brought his boys to work.
Stew loves kids, so he made a beeline,
but one son felt a little shy. Instead of
shrugging and walking away, it some-
how occurred to Stew to say this: ‘‘Did
you know I could do a standing jump
right onto that table right there?’’ One
more time for good measure—he is
kind of a unique individual. The boy
was understandably perplexed, but
then this friendly stranger crouched
down and leapt right up onto the table,
with tie, dress shoes, and everything—
a total spectacle, just to put that
young man at ease and coax a smile.
That is not your typical Senate mo-
ment, but that is the thing—for me and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.002 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1857
March 14, 2019
for all of Stew’s colleagues, that level
of good cheer and concern for others
really has been typical for a dozen
years.
That is why his departure has trig-
gered an avalanche of tributes from
people all over Washington and beyond,
people—many of them junior people—
whom he wrote back with advice, met
for coffee, shared some wisdom; this
sprawling family tree of men and
women who all feel that, one way or
another, they owe a significant part of
their success and careers to him. On
that note, I have to say I know exactly
how they feel.
So today I have to say goodbye to an
all-star staff leader who took his job
about as seriously as anybody you will
ever meet but who took himself far less
seriously than most people you will
ever meet in the process. Professional
excellence and personal humility are
rare virtues. Having a heavy dose of ei-
ther is impressive, but only the com-
bination can explain Stew. There are
plenty of people in this town who
haven’t tackled nearly the challenges
or rubbed nearly the elbows he has, but
you better believe their egos dwarf his.
His resume looks like he belongs in
fancy cocktail parties in tony neigh-
borhoods, but I am not positive Stew
would even be allowed into a fancy
cocktail party. Regardless, I doubt he
would find much time for the elite
guests; he would be too engrossed in
conversation with the security guards,
valet parking attendants, hospitality
staff, talking Nationals baseball and
everything else under the Sun with the
people who actually made the thing go.
Never before yesterday had I seen a
large number of Capitol police officers
gather to surprise a departing Senate
staffer and send him off as if he were
one of their own. That is the admira-
tion and love that Stew has for the
men and women who keep us safe—and
vice versa. I know nothing I say today
will really compete with that tribute.
The only kind of man who would earn
that sort of salute is the kind of man
who would prize it above and beyond
any fancy praise offered in a place like
this. Don’t get me wrong. Stew reveres
this institution, but he never once
seemed to covet the trappings or the
power for its own sake; he just seemed
honored to serve.
My colleagues and I are sad to bid
farewell to the Senate staffer who
made himself thoroughly famous by
trying not to make himself famous. We
are sorry to part with our tough-talk-
ing workaholic who can’t bypass a cute
puppy without stopping for a good
scratch and a photo shoot. We will
sorely miss our true-blue patriot who
so loves this country where a kid can
grow up from working odd jobs to
counseling Senators and statesmen and
not lose an ounce of his character
along the way.
Stew, we can’t quite imagine a place
without you, but we are so grateful for
what you have made it while you were
here.
Happy trails, buddy.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, leadership time is
reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
RELATING TO A NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY DECLARED BY THE
PRESIDENT ON FEBRUARY 15,
2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Committee on
Armed Services is discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.J. Res. 46, and
the Senate will proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The clerk will report the joint resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 46) relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the joint resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
TRIBUTE TO ‘‘STEW’’
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
thank my colleague and friend from
Tennessee for deferring.
First, on Donald Stewart, I know
Leader MCCONNELL talked about him.
Everyone is going to miss him here in
the Senate. He was truly somebody
whom everyone liked. He always had a
great sense of humor and a big smile.
He served his boss, MITCH MCCONNELL,
extremely well, but he never let that
get in the way of being friendly and
working with the other side. He is
somebody we will all miss. I enjoyed
my interactions with him a great deal.
I think that is probably true of just
about every Member here.
We wish Stew the best and thank him
for serving this body so long and so
well.
H.J. RES. 46
Today, Madam President, the Senate
will vote on the resolution to termi-
nate the President’s declaration of a
national emergency. This is not a nor-
mal vote. What we are doing here
today—this is not a normal day. It is
not your typical vote on an appropria-
tions or authorization bill. It doesn’t
concern a nomination or an appoint-
ment. This will be a vote about the
very nature of our Constitution, the
separation of powers, and how this gov-
ernment functions henceforth.
The Framers gave Congress the
power of the purse in article I of the
Constitution. It is probably our great-
est power. Now the President is claim-
ing that power for himself under a
guise of an emergency declaration to
get around a Congress that repeatedly
would not authorize his demand for a
border wall.
The President has not justified the
emergency declaration. You would
think in a moment like this, when
there is not a war, when there is not an
immediate disease, or when there is
not a disaster—that is when we had
other declarations. They don’t need an
elaboration, but this one would. But
the President hasn’t done that. He sim-
ply said he ‘‘didn’t need to do this.’’
That is amazing, folks, my colleagues.
The President said he didn’t need to do
this, and yet he is declaring an emer-
gency. It is a direct contradiction of
his own words.
Everyone here knows the truth.
Democrats and Republicans know the
sad truth. The President did not de-
clare an emergency because there is
one; he declared an emergency because
he lost in Congress and wants to get
around it. He is obsessed with showing
strength. He couldn’t just abandon his
pursuit of the border wall, so he had to
trample on the Constitution to con-
tinue his fight. That is not how this de-
mocracy is supposed to function. That
is not how this democracy has func-
tioned. I have never seen it, where, out
of anger and out of a desire to win the
fight regardless of the consequences, a
President would do this.
The President has not laid out where
he plans to divert funds from, though
we know it is going to be from our
military—from the men and women
serving us and from the things they
need.
Senators who vote against this reso-
lution this afternoon may be voting to
gut funding for a military installation
in their State or for a cut to military
pay and military pensions. How could
they do that?
Most importantly, President Trump
has shown zero understanding of what
his emergency portends for the separa-
tion of powers in our democracy. The
President seems to regard the govern-
ment, not just the Justice Department,
as his own personal tool to do whatever
he wants, whether it is in the private
sector or the public sector. We have
never had a President like this.
We have had lots of Presidents with
lots of foibles, but none of them seem
to equate their own ego with the entire
functioning of the government of the
United States, except this one.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.004 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1858 March 14, 2019
We can’t succumb to that. It is our
job here, in Congress, to limit execu-
tive overreach, to defend our core pow-
ers, to prevent a President—any Presi-
dent—from ignoring the will of Con-
gress every time it fails to align with
the will of the President. That is what
the balance of powers is. That is what
checks and balances is. That is what
every one of us learned in second grade
civics class.
All that teaching in the second grade
civics class seems to be lost on so
many of my Republican colleagues in
blind obeisance to this President, no
matter what the consequences.
This is not an issue of the wall. It
goes way beyond that. We have had our
fights and disputes on the wall for sev-
eral years here. However you feel about
our policy on the southern border and
however you feel about the President,
Senators should vote yes on the resolu-
tion to terminate the emergency dec-
laration.
This resolution is about more than
this President. It is about the Presi-
dency now and on into the future.
It should not be difficult for any of
my Republican colleagues to take this
vote. Conservative principles would de-
mand it, and some of the true conserv-
atives, like Mr. LEE, yesterday, under-
stood that logic. Conservatives have al-
ways feared an agglomeration of power
in any branch of government, but par-
ticularly in the executive branch. The
conservative movement has been de-
signed to reduce the powers of the Fed-
eral Government. That is why they are
for lowering taxes so much.
All of a sudden, again, because Presi-
dent Trump simply wants it, they say:
Let’s abandon those principles and vote
to change, fundamentally, the way the
balance of power works—shame.
If conservatism today is to mean
anything, self-branded conservatives
should vote to terminate the resolu-
tion. Deep-seated principles like that
shouldn’t take a back seat to the poli-
tics of the moment. They should not be
abandoned just because the President
shares the same party.
Now, let me speak from the heart to
my Republican colleagues. I know that
President Trump is extremely popular
among Republicans for many reasons. I
know he commands the vast majority
of the Republican Party, and I know
that the President never shies away
from threatening, bullying, or publicly
castigating members of his own party
if they refuse to do what he wants.
So, I realize this. It is a much more
difficult vote for my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle to take than for
those of us who are Democrats. I would
say to them, and I would say to every
Republican: There are times when loy-
alty to America, to our Constitution,
to our principles, and to what has made
this country great should lead Mem-
bers to rise above and rise to the occa-
sion.
I hope and I pray that this moment is
one of those times when Members
choose country over party and when
Members rise above politics for the
sake of fidelity to our constitutional
principles and to this great United
States of America.
In conclusion, on this issue, this is
not an everyday moment. This is not
just about going along with this Presi-
dent or that one. This is a red-letter
day in the history of how the U.S. Gov-
ernment functions. The judgment of
our Founding Fathers and the judg-
ment of history weighs upon this vote.
TARIFFS
Madam President, the trade negotia-
tions with China are moving forward,
and I continue to have concerns that
President Trump will accept a weak
deal for the sake of a headline. Appar-
ently, I am not alone. President
Trump’s former top economic adviser,
Gary Cohn, told a podcast that the
President is ‘‘desperate’’ to reach a
trade deal. He also expressed deep skep-
ticism that the administration would
be able to stop the Chinese from steal-
ing intellectual property and hold the
Chinese accountable.
I hope Gary Cohn is wrong. The
President, to his credit, was not des-
perate for a deal in North Korea and
stood up to Kim Jong Un and looked
strong for that. I hope he realizes that,
as he negotiates with someone with
even more consequences at stake for
the long run of America—President
Xi—and with a country that can do far
more harm to our country, ultimately,
in the long run.
Ambassador Lighthizer has said that
there are still major issues left to be
resolved. If that is the case, President
Trump should not be pressing for a
quick solution. The Chinese are more
desperate for a solution than we are,
although, obviously, some harm has
been created to bring the Chinese to
the table with tariffs.
The Chinese are desperate, and it is
like they are ahead in the seventh in-
ning, and then you say: I quit the ball
game; I lose.
Don’t do that, Mr. President. The
tariffs you have imposed, at some po-
litical cost, have brought China to the
table and given us the first opportunity
in decades—in decades—to make the
Chinese reform so they don’t take total
advantage of American workers and
know-how. Soybean purchases and
promises to import more American
goods are not sufficient if we don’t win
concrete concessions on major issues.
If President Trump caves to China
for the sake of soybean purchases, he
would be trading America’s future, lit-
erally, for a hill of beans. We want to
help the soybean farmers. We want to
help everybody else, but not at the ex-
pense of the future viability of jobs and
wealth in America.
My message to President Trump is
the same one I mentioned to him and I
gave to him before he met with Kim
Jong Un: Don’t back down.
The President should be proud that
he stood up to North Korea and walked
away. He will be proud if he does the
same with China, unless President Xi
makes enduring, verifiable reforms of
China’s economic and trade policies,
because the odds are high that if the
President walks away from a weak
deal, he will be able to get a much bet-
ter deal down the road.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
H.J. RES. 46
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
Tennesseans have asked me: Is there
really a crisis on the southern border?
Do you support President Trump’s bor-
der wall?
And my answer to both questions is
yes, I do.
I have urged the President to build
the 234 miles of border wall that he
asked for in his January 6 letter to the
Senate and to do that in the fastest
possible way, with a minimum delay
and legal challenge, by using the $5.7
billion already approved by Congress.
But the President’s emergency dec-
laration to take an additional $3.6 bil-
lion that Congress has appropriated for
military hospitals, for barracks, and
for schools—including one in Fort
Campbell—is inconsistent with the
U.S. Constitution that I took an oath
to support and to defend.
Never before has a President asked
for funding, the Congress has not pro-
vided it, and then the President has
used the National Emergencies Act of
1976 to spend the money anyway. The
problem with this is that after a Revo-
lutionary War against a King, our Na-
tion’s Founders gave to Congress—a
Congress elected by the people—the
power to approve all spending so that
the President would not have too much
power. This check on the executive is a
source of our freedom.
In addition, this declaration is a dan-
gerous precedent. Already, Democrat
Presidential candidates are saying they
would declare emergencies to tear
down the existing border wall, to take
away guns, to stop oil exports, to shut
down offshore drilling, and for other
leftwing enterprises—all without the
approval of Congress.
I believe the crisis on our southern
border is real. U.S. Customs and Border
Patrol arrested more than 66,000 illegal
aliens in February of 2019—the highest
total in a single month since March
2009. In the last 2 years alone, U.S. Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement
officers have arrested 266,000 illegal
aliens in the United States with crimi-
nal records. Each week, approximately
300 Americans die from heroin
overdoses, of which nearly 90 percent
come across the southern border.
During the last 25 years, Congress ap-
proved and President Obama, President
Clinton, President George W. Bush, and
President George H. W. Bush built 654
miles of barrier along the 1,954-mile
southern border. In 2013, the com-
prehensive immigration bill that re-
ceived 68 Senate votes, including mine,
included $40 billion for border security,
including physical barrier, and enforce-
ment. Last year, I voted with nearly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.006 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1859
March 14, 2019
every Democrat for a bill that included
$25 billion for border security, includ-
ing physical barrier.
So one might ask: Why is President
Trump the only President not allowed
to build more wall on the southern bor-
der?
But in this case, as the Wall Street
Journal said on March 12, ‘‘The Presi-
dent doesn’t need to invoke a national
emergency to build his wall along the
southern border.’’ He has the money
immediately available in other ac-
counts already approved by Congress.
Any appreciation for our structure of
government means that no President
should be able to use the National
Emergencies Act to spend money that
Congress refuses to provide.
The late Justice Antonin Scalia, who
is revered by constitutional conserv-
atives, put it this way for us. Justice
Scalia said:
‘‘Every tin horn dictator in the world
today, every President for life has a Bill of
Rights. That’s not what makes us free. What
has made us free is our Constitution. Think
of the word ‘‘constitution,’’ it means struc-
ture. That’s why America’s framers debated
not the Bill of Rights, but rather the struc-
ture of the federal government.’’
Justice Scalia wrote:
The genius of the American constitutional
system is the dispersal of power. Once power
is centralized in one person, or one part of
government, a Bill of Rights is just words on
paper.
That was Justice Scalia.
I fault Democrats for not supporting
President Trump’s reasonable request
for more wall on the border after 25
years of approving physical barriers
and border wall for four other Presi-
dents. That is not an excuse to ignore
the constitutional separation of pow-
ers, especially when the faster way to
build the 234 more miles of border wall
that the President has asked for is to
use $5.7 billion already approved by
Congress.
I ask unanimous consent that the
editorial from the Wall Street Journal
dated March 12, 2019, be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Wall Street Journal, Mar. 12, 2019]
TRUMP’S EMERGENCY EXIT
HOW HE CAN DECLARE VICTORY ON WALL MONEY
WITHOUT LOSING A VOTE
(By The Editorial Board)
The Senate will vote on a resolution to
override President Trump’s emergency dec-
laration as early as Thursday, and rarely has
there been a clearer case of needless self-
harm. Mr. Trump should listen to the Senate
Republicans offering him a safe emergency
exit.
On Tuesday Vice President Mike Pence
met with several GOP Senators ahead of a
vote on the override resolution that passed
the House with ease. As many as 10 to 15
GOP Senators may vote to override.
Republican Senators up for re-election in
tough states are in an impossible position.
Susan Collins of Maine and Thom Tillis of
North Carolina are both up in 2020, and
they’re voting to rebuke the President. Mar-
tha McSally has to fight for her seat in Ari-
zona in 2020, and to win she’ll need a coali-
tion of Trump voters and the President’s
skeptics. No matter how she votes she iso-
lates potential supporters. Ditto for Cory
Gardner of Colorado.
And for what? The President doesn’t need
to invoke a national emergency to build his
wall along the southern border. Sen. Lamar
Alexander of Tennessee has pointed out that
the White House already has funds at its dis-
posal without declaring an emergency.
Consider: The President wants $5.7 billion
for the wall. Congress provided $1.375 billion
in appropriations. The President plans to tap
$601 million from a forfeiture fund at the
Treasury Department that can be used for
general law enforcement purposes. Mr.
Trump also plans to use $2.5 billion from De-
fense Department accounts that deal with
drug smuggling, though Sen. Alexander
notes that the law allows him to tap up to $4
billion.
In other words, if the President moved $3.7
from the Pentagon drug account, he’d reach
his $5.7 billion goal without needing to pilfer
$3.6 billion from military construction. The
White House noted this in a fact sheet last
month but declared an emergency anyway.
The irony is that the President can’t pos-
sibly spend all this money on wall construc-
tion before the fall’s budget negotiations for
fiscal 2020, when he can work on winning
more funding.
Mr. Trump could rescind the order and say
he’ll spend the money available under the
law first, and reconsider if facts warrant.
This would keep the money out of the
courts. The President would also be better
positioned to win the 2020 defense spending
he wants if he isn’t raiding the military to
pay for the wall. In his budget proposal this
week, Mr. Trump asked Congress to backfill
the money he is taking from military con-
struction. House Democrats have no incen-
tive to cooperate.
The alternative is a divisive vote that Mr.
Trump is sure to lose and a bipartisan reso-
lution he’ll have to veto. And that’s for
starters. The National Emergencies Act al-
lows a vote in Congress every six months
until an emergency is terminated. Demo-
crats have found a gift that will keep on giv-
ing.
Some Republicans are proposing fixes to
the National Emergencies Act, which would
be welcome. A proposal from Mike Lee of
Utah would let the President declare an
emergency as he can now, but after 30 days
Congress would have to vote to continue it.
Republican Senators don’t want a pointless
showdown with Mr. Trump, but they can’t
avoid one if the White House won’t change
course. Mr. Trump should declare victory on
wall funding for this year and live to fight
next year.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Thank you, Madam
President, for the recognition. It is
great to be joined on the floor by Sen-
ator COLLINS, who is going to speak
after me to stand up for the Constitu-
tion, and I very much appreciate Sen-
ator LAMAR ALEXANDER’s comments
also. He is a real student of the Con-
stitution, and I respect very much the
conclusion he has come up with here
today.
When each Senator is sworn into of-
fice, we take a fundamental pledge to
support and defend the Constitution of
the United States. That vow that we
support the Constitution dates back to
the very first Congress in 1789. Defend-
ing the Constitution is our first and
foremost sacred duty.
The Founders built a system of
checks and balances into our Constitu-
tion. They made sure that the three
branches of government exercised their
own separate powers, and they made
sure that no one branch, no one person,
could exercise too much power, espe-
cially over the use of taxpayer money.
The Founders gave to Congress the
power of the purse, one of our most
fundamental powers. Article I, section
9 of the Constitution could not be more
clear: ‘‘No money shall be drawn from
the Treasury, but in Consequence of
Appropriations made by Law.’’
Congress holds the power to spend
taxpayer money, not the President. It
is our job to make sure that spending
decisions have widespread public sup-
port and are not the product of an ex-
treme minority, much less one man or
one woman.
We all know that the President
wants a wall. We just had a major de-
bate about border security funding.
The President shut down the govern-
ment for 35 days because Congress re-
fused his wall request.
Eventually he relented, but now he
has declared an ‘‘emergency’’ to simply
try and take the money that he
couldn’t get from the appropriations
process. He said: ‘‘I didn’t need to do
this.’’ He flaunted the fact that this is
not a real emergency.
The President is testing the limits of
Executive power. The questions before
the Senate today are these: Are we
going to let this happen or are we
going to open Pandora’s box? What
about article I of the Constitution?
What about the 35-day government
shutdown? What about Presidential
budget requests? What about the Ap-
propriations Committee? Are we really
going to let a President raid taxpayer
money after Congress denies the re-
quest?
The opposition to this power grab is
bipartisan, as it should be. Among the
American people the numbers are over-
whelming. Almost 70 percent of the
American people oppose the President’s
emergency declaration to raid tax-
payer money for the wall. That is al-
most 70 percent.
My fellow Senators, it is time for the
Senate to do its job. It is time for us to
assert our authority over the purse. It
is time for us to honor our oath of of-
fice. Every Senator should vote yes on
the resolution to terminate the Presi-
dent’s emergency declaration.
I want to thank my cosponsors in
this effort. Earlier I mentioned Senator
COLLINS, who is on the floor with me
and will speak after me—Senator MUR-
KOWSKI, Senator SHAHEEN. Again, I
know that Senator COLLINS is on the
floor to urge us to do the right thing,
to stand up for Congress’s authority.
This vote is historic. The Constitu-
tion’s principle of separation of powers
is at stake. If the Senate enables the
President to hijack our power to appro-
priate, history will not remember us
fondly.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.007 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1860 March 14, 2019
This vote is not about the wisdom of
building a wall along the border. This
vote is not about party. This vote is
about whether we will let any Presi-
dent trample on the Constitution,
whether we will sit by and let the
President take away our constitutional
authority to appropriate.
I rise today, hopeful that my Repub-
lican colleagues will speak up. In addi-
tion to Senator COLLINS and Senator
MURKOWSKI, Senator TILLIS stated
firmly in a recent opinion piece:
I support Trump’s vision on border secu-
rity. But I would vote against the emer-
gency.
Why does he say he would vote
against the emergency declaration? Be-
cause, he said, ‘‘[a]s a U.S. Senator, I
cannot justify providing the executive
with more ways to bypass Congress.’’
Former Governor Kasich authored an
opinion piece recently titled ‘‘It’s time
for Republicans in Congress to put
country over party.’’ He states:
Let’s be clear. This vote is not about the
situation at the border; it’s about an execu-
tive power grab and, above all, congressional
respect for the democratic process.
I couldn’t agree more with Governor
Kasich.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
the full pieces by Senator TILLIS and
Governor Kasich.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Washington Post, Feb. 25, 2019]
I SUPPORT TRUMP’S VISION ON BORDER SECU-
RITY. BUT I WOULD VOTE AGAINST THE
EMERGENCY
(By Thom Tillis)
Thom Tillis, a Republican, is a U.S. sen-
ator from North Carolina.
President Trump has few bigger allies than
me when it comes to supporting his vision of
21st-century border security, encompassing a
major investment in technology, personnel
and infrastructure, including new physical
barriers where they will be effective. It is a
vision that will take many years and tens of
billions of dollars to fully realize, and the
president can count on me to help.
The president is rightfully frustrated with
Congress’s inaction regarding the humani-
tarian and security crisis at the nation’s
southern border. Even though Republicans
and Democrats spent the past several dec-
ades in the halls of Congress and on the cam-
paign trail promising the American people
that they would work to secure U.S. borders,
some of my colleagues seemingly made a po-
litically calculated decision to block the
president’s good-faith efforts to finally get it
done. They have regressed to the point where
a Democratic presidential contender such as
Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.) and a possible
candidate, former congressman Beto
O’Rourke of Texas, are even entertaining the
possibility of tearing down existing physical
barriers. Although Trump certainly has le-
gitimate grievances over congressional
Democrats’ obstruction of border-security
funding, his national emergency declaration
on Feb. 15 was not the right answer.
From the perspective of the chief execu-
tive, I can understand why the president
would assert his powers with the emergency
declaration to implement his policy agenda.
After all, nearly every president in the mod-
ern era has similarly pushed the boundaries
of presidential power, many with the helping
hand of Congress.
In fact, if I were the leader of the Constitu-
tion’s Article II branch, I would probably de-
clare an emergency and use all the tools at
my disposal as well. But I am not. I am a
member of the Senate, and I have grave con-
cerns when our institution looks the other
way at the expense of weakening Congress’s
power.
It is my responsibility to be a steward of
the Article I branch, to preserve the separa-
tion of powers and to curb the kind of execu-
tive overreach that Congress has allowed to
fester for the better part of the past century.
I stood by that principle during the Obama
administration, and I stand by it now.
Conservatives rightfully cried foul when
President Barack Obama used executive ac-
tion to completely bypass Congress and uni-
laterally provide deferred action to undocu-
mented adults who had knowingly violated
the nation’s immigration laws. Some promi-
nent Republicans went so far as to proclaim
that Obama was acting more like an ‘‘em-
peror’’ or ‘‘king’’ than a president.
There is no intellectual honesty in now
turning around and arguing that there’s an
imaginary asterisk attached to executive
overreach—that it’s acceptable for my party
but not thy party.
Republicans need to realize that this will
lead inevitably to regret when a Democrat
once again controls the White House, cites
the precedent set by Trump, and declares his
or her own national emergency to advance a
policy that couldn’t gain congressional ap-
proval.
This isn’t just conjecture. House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi (D–Calif.) and other prominent
Democratic elected officials have already
hinted that emergency declarations will be
part of the playbook for the left, with Pelosi
musing, ‘‘just think about what a president
with different values can present to the
American people.’’
Conservatives should take these warnings
seriously. They should be thinking about
whether they would accept the prospect of a
President Bernie Sanders declaring a na-
tional emergency to implement parts of the
radical Green New Deal; a President Eliza-
beth Warren declaring a national emergency
to shut down banks and take over the na-
tion’s financial institutions; or a President
Cory Booker declaring a national emergency
to restrict Second Amendment rights.
Those on the left and the right who are
making Trump’s emergency declaration a
simple political litmus test of whether one
supports or opposes the president and his
policies are missing the mark. This is about
the separation of powers and whether Con-
gress will support or oppose a new precedent
of executive power that will have major con-
sequences.
As a U.S. senator, I cannot justify pro-
viding the executive with more ways to by-
pass Congress. As a conservative, I cannot
endorse a precedent that I know future left-
wing presidents will exploit to advance rad-
ical policies that will erode economic and in-
dividual freedoms.
These are the reasons I would vote in favor
of the resolution disapproving of the presi-
dent’s national-emergency declaration, if
and when it comes before the Senate.
[From CNN, Mar. 12, 2019]
JOHN KASICH: IT’S TIME FOR REPUBLICANS IN
CONGRESS TO PUT COUNTRY OVER PARTY
(By John R. Kasich)
John R. Kasich is the former governor of
Ohio, serving from 2011 to 2019. A Repub-
lican, he was previously a member of the
House of Representatives. He is the author of
‘‘Two Paths: America Divided or United.’’
The opinions expressed in this commentary
are his. View more opinion articles on CNN.
During my 18 years as a member of Con-
gress—not so long ago—my colleagues and I
didn’t robotically toe the line with the Presi-
dent. Republicans didn’t vote in lockstep
with Republican presidents, not even Ronald
Reagan. And Democrats departed from their
party’s president when they thought it was
the right thing to do. We took party loyalty
seriously, but we gave even greater weight to
principle.
In recent decades, of course, partisanship
in the House and Senate has become far
more intense, and the nation is worse as a
result. But even now, in this hyper-partisan
era, there comes a time when our elected
leaders must put country over party.
One such moment: the ongoing debate over
President Donald Trump’s national emer-
gency declaration to fund construction of a
wall on the US-Mexico border. Sometime
soon, Republican senators will have the op-
portunity to demonstrate—as 13 Republicans
did in the House—their love of country and
their commitment to constitutional values
by voting for the resolution to disapprove
the President’s emergency declaration. In-
stead of acting like they’re afraid of their
own shadows, Senate Republicans must use
this vote to—at long last—stand up and de-
fend the Constitution.
THE REAL NATIONAL EMERGENCY IS NOT AT THE
BORDER
Let’s be clear. This vote is not about the
situation at the border; it’s about an execu-
tive power grab and, above all, congressional
respect for the democratic process. Whatever
their views on the border situation—which I
agree is serious—Republicans should oppose
the President’s declaration. Standing
against the President on this issue is impor-
tant not just for today, but for our future.
For years, Republicans decried executive
overreach by President Barack Obama. If we
are serious about our constitutional values,
we can’t complain only about actions by the
other party. We have to apply consistent
principles whenever we have a president
from our own party as well.
We should be especially concerned about
President Trump’s effort to circumvent Con-
gress simply by invoking the magic word
‘‘emergency.’’ If presidents can do end runs
around Congress merely by claiming ‘‘emer-
gency,’’ then there’s almost no limit to exec-
utive authority. This would create a gravely
dangerous situation, not only for this presi-
dent but for all future presidents as well.
Legal scholars are debating what the word
‘‘emergency’’ means as it’s used in the Na-
tional Emergencies Act, and the courts will
resolve that question if Congress fails to
override an expected presidential veto of
their resolution of disapproval. But there’s
no real doubt about what the word is sup-
posed to mean. A president’s emergency pow-
ers are intended to be used for addressing
sudden or unexpected events, not just serious
problems. Indeed, the National Emergencies
Act, passed in 1976, aimed to curtail—not ex-
pand—presidential discretion to declare
emergencies.
What’s also clear is how emergency dec-
larations should be used: To address prob-
lems in ways for which there is not only a
general consensus, but also where the press-
ing nature of the challenge requires speedy
action without the formal and oftentimes
slow process of congressional action. Noth-
ing about the current situation matches up
to that standard.
President Trump’s emergency declaration
for border wall funding is almost the anti-
thesis of that model. The problems at our
border may indeed be severe, but they are
chronic. Even more significantly, there is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.009 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1861
March 14, 2019
not a consensus to pursue the President’s ap-
proach. To the contrary, Republicans and
Democrats in Congress did negotiate a com-
promise—and the President signed it into
law. But then he proceeded to turn his back
on the negotiation, the process and the
agreement by declaring a national emer-
gency.
That kind of unilateralism not only con-
flicts with our Constitution, it amplifies the
worst of our present-day politics. President
Trump is playing to his base, focused on poli-
tics not policy. The result of his approach is
more bitterness and alienation, less trust be-
tween parties and a continued loss of public
confidence in our government. It leaves both
parties—our government—far less able to do
the things the American people need and de-
sire. I am proud to have joined with three
dozen former Republican members of Con-
gress to urge those Republicans currently
serving there to stand for our values and by
standing up to the President against his
emergency declaration. President Trump re-
mains popular within our party, but so is a
deeply ingrained commitment to constitu-
tional conservativism. Opposing your party’s
president is never easy, but I am hopeful
that Republicans will vote to uphold the con-
stitutional principles I know they hold dear.
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, to get
this wall money, the President caused
the longest government shutdown in
our Nation. The shutdown caused hard-
ship for millions of Federal employees
and lasting pain for thousands of Fed-
eral contractors, not to mention the
millions of Americans who were denied
services for 35 days—services they paid
for with their tax dollars.
I visited with New Mexicans hurt by
the shutdown and it was very, very
painful to hear their stories.
In the end, Congress decided on a bi-
partisan basis not to spend the $5.7 bil-
lion the President demanded for his
wall. He got $1.3 billion. I didn’t want
to see that much, and I wanted to see
more restrictions as to specifically
what it was going to be spent for, but
it was a hard-fought compromise, and a
deal is a deal.
Congress’s determination should
have ended the debate for this fiscal
year, the year that we are in.
Now the President is asking Congress
for $8.6 billion for the border wall next
year. That is his prerogative, but make
no mistake, it is not only Congress’s
prerogative, it is Congress’s constitu-
tional responsibility to decide if he
gets that money. As the old saying
goes, the President proposes and Con-
gress disposes. President Trump is
being treated no differently than all
previous Presidents. That is how our
constitutional system works—or at
least how it is supposed to work.
The President’s emergency declara-
tion is an end run around Congress,
plain and simple. If any Democratic
President issued an emergency declara-
tion like this, say for climate change
or gun safety funding, Republicans in
this body would scream bloody murder
and vote to disapprove.
I am on record that climate change is
one of the most pressing issues on our
planet, and I am on record that gun vi-
olence is a national crisis. I have voted
for and proposed actual legislation on
these topics, as our system is supposed
to work. No previous President has
used the National Emergency Act to
bypass the appropriations process like
this. Our Constitution, the rule of law,
separation of powers—all of these rise
far above the day-to-day controversies
like the President’s border wall.
On a practical note, the President
wants to take real money away from
real military construction projects,
which will have a real impact on na-
tional security. These military con-
struction projects have been vetted
through years of scrutiny, through the
military, through numerous congres-
sional committees in Congress, and
they are projects deemed essential to
national security—projects all across
the Nation, in our States, that are now
at risk.
We have a long list of military con-
struction projects by the President.
Yet he has not bothered to tell us
which projects would be cut to build
his wall. Will he raid $793 million to re-
build Camp Lejeune, NC, after the dev-
astation from Hurricane Florence?
Will he steal up to $800 million for
Navy ship maintenance to make sure
that accidents like what happened to
the USS McCain and USS Fitzgerald
never happen again?
Will he raid $125 million from my
State of New Mexico for Holloman Air
Force Base to develop unmanned aerial
vehicles to track terrorists and for
White Sands Missile Range to build a
badly needed information systems fa-
cility?
The answer is that we don’t know,
but these critical projects in all of our
States are at risk.
We each need to think about our
States and the people we were sent
here to represent. I am from one of the
four States that border Mexico, one of
the four States that would be the most
directly impacted by any border wall,
and I am here to state there is no na-
tional security emergency along my
State’s border with Mexico. What is
happening at our border does not jus-
tify the use of this authority.
New Mexico’s border communities
are flourishing with economic, cul-
tural, and educational activity. Border
communities are as safe as or safer
than others in the interior.
This is not a partisan view along the
border. Republican WILLIAM HURD rep-
resents more than 500 miles of the
Texas border with Mexico. He not only
believes the President’s emergency
declaration is unconstitutional, but he
also thinks the President’s wall is ‘‘the
most expensive and least effective way
to do border security.’’
Again, whether you support or oppose
the border wall is not an issue. What is
at issue is our oath to support and de-
fend the Constitution, whether any
President can toss Congress aside and
raid critical funds at will.
We have an opportunity to stand up
to an unconstitutional power grab. I
urge everyone in this Chamber to seize
that opportunity.
With this, I yield to Senator COLLINS,
who, from the beginning, has worked
with me as we have our resolution in,
and we are working hard to make sure
that we stand up for the Constitution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Thank you.
Mr. President, later today, the Sen-
ate will make a significant decision
with implications for our constitu-
tional system of government.
We will vote on a resolution to re-
verse the President’s ill-advised na-
tional emergency declaration that
funds the construction of a border wall
using money that Congress has appro-
priated and the President has signed
into law for other purposes, such as
military construction.
I want to thank Senator UDALL, the
Senator from New Mexico, for working
together with me. We introduced a
companion resolution to overturn the
President’s declaration, and I commend
Senator UDALL for his leadership.
By declaring a national emergency,
the President’s action comes into di-
rect conflict with Congress’s authority
to determine the appropriation of
funds, a power vested in Congress by
the Framers of our Constitution in ar-
ticle I, section 9. That is why this issue
is not about strengthening our border
security, a goal that I support and have
voted to advance. Rather, it is a sol-
emn occasion involving whether this
body will stand up for its institutional
prerogatives and will support the sepa-
ration of powers enshrined in our Con-
stitution.
Throughout our history the courts
have consistently held that ‘‘only Con-
gress is empowered by the Constitution
to adopt laws directing monies to be
spent from the U.S. treasury.’’
For the past 65 years, the courts have
determined the boundary of Presi-
dential authority vis-a-vis Congress
under the doctrine of Youngstown
Sheet & Tube, the 1952 Supreme Court
case that reversed President Truman’s
seizure of U.S. steel companies during
the Korean war.
As Justice Robert Jackson explained
in his profoundly influential concur-
rence in that case, the question of
whether a President’s actions are con-
stitutionally valid should be deter-
mined by examining the source of the
President’s authority. In this concur-
rence, the Justice goes through three
scenarios in which he assesses the
President’s power.
According to Justice Jackson, when
acts taken by the President are against
the express or implied will of Congress,
the President’s power is at its lowest
ebb. President Trump’s declaration
clearly falls in that category.
The President rests his declaration
on the National Emergencies Act, and
that act fails to define precisely what
constitutes an emergency. There is a
commonsense rule we can apply. It is a
five-part test that was used by the Of-
fice of Management and Budget under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.002 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1862 March 14, 2019
former President George Herbert Walk-
er Bush to determine whether re-
quested funding merited an emergency
designation under our budget rules.
Under that test, a spending request was
designated as an emergency only if the
need for spending met a five-part test.
It had to be necessary, sudden, urgent,
unforeseen, and not permanent.
Whether one agrees with President
Trump that more should be done to se-
cure our southern border—and I do
agree with him on that goal—his deci-
sion to fund a border wall through a
national emergency declaration would
never pass all of this five-part test.
Another concern I have with the
President’s declaration is, it shifts
funding away from critical military
construction projects. We don’t know
which ones. We have not been able to
get a list, but this could have very real
national security implications. Again,
I would note that the Military Con-
struction appropriations bill incor-
porated projects recommended by the
President and his Department of De-
fense, was passed by both bodies, and
signed into law by the President.
Let me emphasize, once again, that
the question presented by this resolu-
tion is not whether you are for a border
wall or against a border wall; it is not
whether you believe that border secu-
rity should be strengthened or whether
it is sufficient; it is not whether we
support or oppose President Trump;
rather, the question is a far more fun-
damental and significant one. The
question is this: Do we want the execu-
tive branch, now or in the future, to
hold the power of the purse, a power
the Framers deliberately entrusted to
Congress?
We must stand up and defend
Congress’s institutional powers as the
Framers intended we would, even when
doing so is inconvenient or goes
against the outcome we might prefer.
I urge my colleagues to support the
rulings of disapproval and our Con-
stitution.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, this is a
debate worth happening. I appreciate
the comments from my New England
neighbor. It is an important matter for
us to consider.
President Trump declared a national
emergency, citing a ‘‘crisis’’ at the
southern border, but it has become
more and more evident he did it for one
reason, to do an end run around Con-
gress and the Appropriations Com-
mittee, and use taxpayer money to
build a wall on the southern border
that Congress has refused to fund.
For 3 years, he failed to convince
Congress—a Republican-controlled
Senate and a Republican-controlled
House—that his wall was a good idea.
For 3 years, he requested that Congress
fund his cynical campaign promise to
build a ‘‘big beautiful’’ wall on the
southern border, and for 3 years, the
Republican-controlled Congress re-
fused. Even when his own party con-
trolled both Chambers of Congress, he
could not convince enough Members
that it was a good idea. Certainly, no-
body accepted his pledge that Mexico
would pay for the wall. We all knew the
U.S. taxpayers would have to pay for
it.
So instead of accepting that we are
in a democracy, and he is not a mon-
arch, instead of accepting that we are
in a democracy and there are two other
coequal branches of government that
could constrain his actions, the Presi-
dent has decided to ignore the Con-
stitution and the will of Congress and
go it alone. Actually, Congress alone
has the power of the purse. Congress
having exclusive power over our gov-
ernment spending priorities is one of
the most critical checks and balances
in our constitutional system.
Anybody who goes back and reads
the history of the founding of this
country knows that the reason we are
the oldest existing democracy cur-
rently in the world, is that we believed
in checks and balances.
The President, of course, could pro-
pose funding for whatever projects he
wants, but it is the job of Congress to
decide where to invest the American
people’s hard-earned tax dollars. In a
democracy, every President from
George Washington to now is supposed
to respect those decisions. After not
getting what he wanted, this President
has invoked the National Emergencies
Act. He is stretching the powers given
to him in that act beyond all recogni-
tion. He has declared a national emer-
gency on the southern border.
We are not responding to a national
emergency. There is no crisis on our
southern border requiring such ex-
treme action. What kind of national
emergency is declared only after you
lose a 3-year funding fight with Mem-
bers of your own party? What kind of
national emergency is resolved by a
vaguely defined, multiyear construc-
tion project? The truth is clear. He is
trying to use this authority as a means
to a political end.
When Congress enacted the National
Emergencies Act in 1976, it conveyed
certain powers to the President to use
in the event of a true emergency that
required quick action. I remember. I
was here during the debate. There was
a Republican President. It assumed
that whoever sat in the Oval Office
would have enough respect for the of-
fice and the power being conveyed not
to abuse it. Those of us in the Senate,
at that time, felt that whether it was a
Republican or Democratic President,
they would not abuse the power. Presi-
dent Trump has failed that test.
Presidential emergency powers
should only be invoked in a true time
of crisis. It is an abuse of power to in-
voke these authorities just because he
couldn’t do what he wanted in any
other way. We are now seeing what he
would do if he had these powers.
The President wants to raid money
meant for military housing and mili-
tary base improvements to pay for his
wall. This comes almost in the same
week we see in the news that so much
of military housing is infested by mold,
by rats, by asbestos, and by all these
other problems. Is he going to take the
money that would make this housing
safe for the men and women in our
military to pay for his wall? Is he
going to take money from Camp
Lejeune that was hit by Hurricane
Florence and badly damaged? I know
Camp Lejeune. When my son was in the
Marines, he spent time there. Is he
going to take money from Tyndall Air
Force base, which was flattened by
Hurricane Michael? What about money
for schools for military families, like
the school at Fort Campbell, KY, or a
child development center at Joint Base
Andrews in Maryland? What about es-
sential training facilities that would
ensure military readiness, like a spe-
cial operations training facility at Fort
Bragg, NC—which I have visited. Con-
gress chose to fund these projects over
an ineffective, wasteful wall. Congress
had to say, where does the money go?
We felt these things to help our mili-
tary and military families made far
more sense than the wall. Congress
used its constitutional power—let me
emphasize that—Congress used its con-
stitutional power of the purse to set
priorities for how to invest the Amer-
ican people’s hard-earned tax dollars.
The President is trying to label oppo-
nents of his action as weak on border
security or weak on crime. That is non-
sense. I don’t know any Member of the
Senate, of either party, who doesn’t be-
lieve in border security or is in favor of
crime.
Let’s see what he asked for. Instead
of border security, he wanted $5.7 bil-
lion for the wall. Congress approved a
border security package—money for
fencing along with technology added
between the ports of entry, and addi-
tional personnel. That is real border se-
curity, not a political stunt. Now the
President is saying: Thank you for
your views; thank you for following
your constitutional power, but I am
still going to do it my way. Where is he
going to stop?
The fact that it is a political game
was shown when this Congress passed,
overwhelmingly, $1.6 billion for border
security. The President threatened to
veto that. Then after closing the gov-
ernment for 35 days—costing the tax-
payers billions and billions of dollars
for nothing—he signed the bill that did
not give him the $1.6 billion that he
threatened to veto but that gave him
$1.3 billion, and that he signed. If any-
body thinks this is just playing games,
that states it.
Over the past 2 years, we have seen
the erosion of our institutional checks
and balances in the face of creeping
authoritarianism. The time has come
for Congress and Members of the Presi-
dent’s own party to take a stand. Con-
gress simply cannot afford to remain
silent in the face of such an unprece-
dented violation of the separation of
powers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.012 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1863
March 14, 2019
I understand Senator LEE has intro-
duced a bill to reform the National
Emergencies Act. I appreciate the
thought he has put into this issue. I am
certainly going to review his legisla-
tion with an open mind, but make no
mistake, legislation to fix future
abuses of this law does not address the
abuses we have that are happening
right now. His bill does not address the
fact that this President is trying to do
an end run around Congress—an end
run around Democrats and Republicans
alike—and is cynically using an emer-
gency declaration to fund a request on
which we had voted but of which we did
not approve. We must send a message
to the President that this is unaccept-
able. This is not something we never
voted on. We have voted on this mat-
ter, and under the Constitution, that is
what is supposed to carry the day.
I hope my Republican friends will
take a moment to take stock of where
we are. President Trump is going to be
but a moment in our Nation’s history.
The Constitution controls our history
no matter who is President. For the
sake of appeasing a man who made a
foolish campaign promise that was
never grounded in reality, will they not
stand up for the institution in which
they serve? For the sake of appeasing a
President who detests any limits or
checks on his authority, will they for-
ever diminish the role of Congress as a
coequal branch of government?
Now is the time for country over
party. I will vote aye on the joint reso-
lution of disapproval, and I urge all
Senators to do the same.
I do not see any Senator who seeks
the floor.
Mr. President, is this under con-
trolled time?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time
is controlled equally between the pro-
ponents and opponents.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the time con-
sumed by the quorum be equally di-
vided between both sides.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. I suggest the absence of
a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate will soon vote on the President’s
declaration of a national emergency.
We have reached a moment of crisis,
but it is not a constitutional crisis; it
is a crisis on the border, a crisis of
American sovereignty. When hundreds
of thousands of foreigners arrive at the
southern border and demand entry,
that is not migration; that is an emer-
gency and a threat to our sovereignty.
The stories speak for themselves.
Last Thursday, an American citizen
named Rocio Alderete was shot to
death on a bridge over the Mexican
border near McAllen, TX. Early reports
suggest Rocio was caught in a shoot-
out between cartel gunmen and the
Mexican police, but whatever the case
turns out to be, Rocio has perished—
the latest American victim of lawless-
ness at our southern border.
Since last October, Border Patrol
agents have apprehended more than
260,000 illegal aliens at the border,
which is a surge of 90 percent—almost
double from the previous year. For the
most part, these aren’t young men who
are coming for work, as has been so
often the case in the past; rather, they
are Central Americans who are gaming
our generous asylum laws. Instead of
running away from the Border Patrol,
these illegal aliens run to it so they
can be captured and released into the
country, with notice to appear in
court, which they hardly ever do.
Thanks to stupid laws and activist
judges, illegal aliens are even using lit-
tle kids as legal force fields because
being detained with minors increases
their odds of being held in America
rather than to be turned around and
sent home.
As a result, we see all of the horrors
of the human smuggling trade at the
border today. Women and girls are sex-
ually assaulted at horrific rates. Hun-
dreds die in the desert each year of
thirst and exhaustion. Infectious dis-
eases we had all but eradicated with
vaccines are appearing again in border
communities. ICE health officials have
found 236 confirmed or probable cases
of mumps among detainees in the past
year after having reported zero cases
for the previous 2 years.
This surge of illegal aliens is swamp-
ing law enforcement’s ability to do its
job. ‘‘Overwhelmed’’ is the word we
hear so often from agents. Border Pa-
trol Commissioner Kevin McAleenan
says: ‘‘This is clearly both a border se-
curity and humanitarian crisis.’’
The consequences of this crisis
stretch far beyond the border. Some-
times it stretches thousands of miles
away. An American—1 of 192 every
day—dies of a drug overdose. The poi-
son in his veins flows across the Mexi-
can border. A brave police officer and
father, Corporal Ronil Singh, of Cali-
fornia, was shot dead the day after
Christmas after his killer snuck into
the country illegally. We have failed to
protect our border, as any sovereign
nation must, and our people are dying
because of it.
The President has declared a na-
tional emergency because of this crisis.
Yet the administration’s sensible, long
overdue efforts to secure the border
have been met only by howls of outrage
from the Democratic Party and its
media wing. Judging from their reac-
tion, you would think the real emer-
gency was not our lawless border but
any genuine effort to secure it. The mi-
nority leader called the President’s
emergency declaration a ‘‘lawless act’’
that showed ‘‘naked contempt for the
rule of law.’’ Other members of the
self-styled resistance have compared
the President to Hitler.
These are curious, overheated claims,
I have to say. To be lawless, after all,
one must act outside the law. Yet the
President’s critics don’t even bother
making that case, probably because
they don’t have much of one to make.
The President isn’t purporting to in-
voke his inherent Executive powers
under article II of our Constitution. He
does not even claim to defend his con-
stitutional prerogatives from legisla-
tive encroachment. On the contrary, he
is only exercising the statutory au-
thority that has been delegated to him
by us, by this very body—the U.S. Con-
gress. More than half of the $8.1 billion
the President is using to build the wall
and secure the border comes from non-
emergency statutes that have been
passed by Congress. The remainder
comes from an explicit delegation of
various powers to the President in the
event of a national emergency, just
like the one the President has declared,
which we also delegated him the au-
thority to do. I should add, the Na-
tional Emergencies Act passed nearly
unanimously, with only five ‘‘no’’ votes
in the House.
I am sympathetic to arguments that
the National Emergencies Act is too
broad and gives the executive branch
too much power. That is a reasonable
debate to have. Believe me, Congress
has ceded too much power to the Exec-
utive for more than a century and has
expanded an administrative state that
increasingly deprives our people of
having a meaningful say in their gov-
ernment, so I invite my Democratic
colleagues to reconsider the wisdom of
this path.
Maybe we can also reform the EPA.
Perhaps we can require up-or-down
votes in Congress in order to approve
big regulations so politicians around
here can show some accountability for
once. I am ready to have those debates.
Believe me, I am ready. In the mean-
time, don’t pretend we didn’t delegate
all of these powers or that it is lawless
for the Executive to use the laws we
have passed just because you deplore
him.
If you want to see lawless Executive
action, by the way, you can look, in-
stead, to the last administration.
President Obama purportedly gave mil-
lions of illegal aliens legal status and
work permits, which was in clear viola-
tion of statutes that had been passed
by this Congress. He also expressly de-
fied our ban on bailout payments from
the ObamaCare slush fund to big health
insurance companies. It is strange how
I don’t recall the self-styled resistance
manning the ramparts and rushing to
the Ninth Circuit back then. In fact, I
only recall a lot of congressional
fanboys of the President’s using the
pen and phone to encroach on our con-
stitutional prerogatives.
I have also heard from some Senators
who admit the President is acting law-
fully but who worry about the slippery
slope of Executive power. I respect this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.013 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1864 March 14, 2019
view. Our system of separated powers
calls on each branch to jealously pro-
tect its own powers, but one can ski to
the bottom of a slippery slope pretty
fast. A Republican declares a national
emergency today on the border. A
Democrat—or who knows these days,
maybe a socialist—will tomorrow de-
clare a gun violence emergency to con-
fiscate guns or will declare a climate
change emergency to shut down coal-
fired powerplants.
I acknowledge it doesn’t take much
to imagine such abuses by a future lib-
eral President, especially with the
gang they have running today, but that
is precisely what such actions would
be—abuses. What the law says matters
here. We have delegated to the Execu-
tive the power to enforce the Nation’s
immigration laws, including by an
emergency declaration. We have not
delegated to the Executive the power
to confiscate guns, to close power-
plants or any of the other common en-
trants in the parade of horribles on the
slippery slope. That is the difference
between lawful and lawless govern-
ment, and that is the case here.
Still, others claim the crisis on the
border isn’t bad enough to call a na-
tional emergency. Some have gone so
far as to deride it as a fake emergency.
If killings, caravans, and cartels at the
border are fake emergencies, I would
really hate to see a genuine emergency.
Let’s suppose we take their claim se-
riously. We at least ought to compare
the crisis at the border to past national
emergencies to see how they all stack
up. Right now, there are 32 national
emergencies in effect—32 national
emergencies. Among them is a national
emergency related to election fraud in
Belarus. Another is in response to the
breakdown of the rule of law in Leb-
anon. A third is in response to a failed
coup in Burundi.
I don’t deny that those are all gen-
uine problems or that an American re-
sponse may well be warranted—far
from it. Yet I doubt many Americans
would put them ahead of a serial viola-
tion of our sovereign border by mil-
lions of foreigners. If the Belarusians
warrant an emergency declaration,
then surely Americans do, too, when
we face a crisis at our southern border.
The Democrats used to take border
security seriously, but in elite society
these days, ‘‘border security’’ are bad
words, and ‘‘wall’’ is practically a four-
letter word unless they are the walls
that protect the rich and the powerful
and the politically connected from a
dangerous world. Look in the news.
The Democrats’ newest Presidential as-
pirant, Robert Francis O’Rourke—a
former Congressman and failed Senate
candidate—has gone so far as to sug-
gest the tearing down of existing bar-
riers at the southern border, which I
am sure has thrilled all of the good
people in El Paso who don’t live in a
world of private planes and security de-
tails.
Regrettably, the Democrats’ hos-
tility to border security couldn’t come
at a worse time for our country be-
cause there is, indeed, a crisis at the
border, and we ought to be addressing
it.
We could be spending this valuable
legislative time tightening up our asy-
lum laws or cracking down on employ-
ers who exploit illegal aliens instead of
hiring American workers or ramping
up drug enforcement. Instead, we are
debating whether a crisis at our south-
ern border can be called an emergency.
Instead of solving a problem, we are
trying to spin it.
So I have a simple suggestion for my
colleagues: If you are genuinely
alarmed by the President’s invocation
of the very emergency powers we dele-
gated to him, instead of furrowing your
brows and tugging your chins and
gravely citing Youngstown Sheet, let’s
tackle this emergency declaration by
making it unnecessary. Let’s get to the
root of the problem and secure our bor-
der once and for all. No more border
crisis, no more emergency—it is as
simple as that.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last
month, I launched a new series of floor
speeches to recognize what is going on
with prescription drug pricing across
America.
When you ask the American people
about the economic things that are on
their minds, it is No. 1—the cost of pre-
scription drugs. No. 2 is, have I saved
enough money for my retirement? It
really gets to the heart of the concerns
families have every day. Each one of us
knows that the cost of prescription
drugs is going up, and we also realize
how vulnerable we may be as individ-
uals if one of those drugs is a matter of
life and death.
I came to the floor 2 weeks ago to
talk about the cost of insulin. Seven
and a half million diabetics across
America have seen dramatic increases
in the cost of insulin—increases that
can’t be justified because the same
American companies selling the same
drugs in Canada do it for a fraction of
the cost. Americans pay outrageous
prices.
Humalog, which is one of the most
popular forms of insulin, costs $329 a
dosage in the United States. Twenty
years ago, it was about $29. It has gone
up in price 35 times in that 20-year pe-
riod of time. How much does the exact
same drug that costs $329 in the United
States cost in Canada? It is made by
the same company. Thirty-eight dol-
lars. You look at that and you think
there is something wrong here. The
pharmaceutical industry is not focus-
ing on giving American consumers a
break.
What I want to talk about today goes
to an issue that is hard to believe but
true. A few years ago, the New York
Times reported that nearly $3 billion
worth of drugs was wasted each year.
These are not ordinary drugs; these are
cancer drugs used in chemotherapy.
Medicare, Medicaid, and private health
insurers spend billions of dollars on
medications. Many of them are lit-
erally thrown in the trash. How could
that possibly be?
You see, for many of the most expen-
sive drugs, like new cancer treatments,
the pharmaceutical industry produces
them in a one-size-fits-all container, a
single-use vial that a physician has to
draw from to give a treatment to a pa-
tient. The dosage for the patient in the
cancer therapy is based on the pa-
tient’s size and weight. The problem is
that the pharmaceutical industry in-
sists on selling these drugs in exces-
sively large vials that contain dramati-
cally more medicine than the average
patient would need, so doctors admin-
ister the proper dosage and throw away
the rest.
Here is a graphic to illustrate what I
am talking about. Here is why we are
wasting billions of dollars each year on
cancer drugs. One size does not fit all.
This drug, Velcade—the vial size
available is 3.5 milligrams. The patient
dose is 2.2. The amount that is left over
is 1.3. Oh, you are going to recycle
that? You can’t do it. That is the end
of it, and it is thrown away. In 2016,
$300 million was wasted in this way.
This vial, the first one here that is
produced, is a vial that would apply to
a person who is 6 feet 6 inches tall and
weighs 250 pounds, which means our
linebacker Khalil Mack on the Chicago
Bears—God forbid he would ever need
it—that would be his dosage size. Most
people are not as big as Chicago line-
backers.
Why is Pharma sending us one vial,
take it or leave it? Because they make
money. They make money when we
buy it and have to throw it away.
Takeda Pharmaceutical sells this
drug for those who are suffering from
multiple myeloma and lymphoma. As I
mentioned, it is for a person who is 6
feet 6 inches and weighs 250 pounds.
Takeda made $310 million in the year
2016 off of unused Velcade that got
thrown in the trash—$310 million.
What makes this even more appalling
is that the pharmaceutical industry ti-
tans actually sell the same drug in
smaller containers in other countries
but not in the United States. Here, we
are forced to buy the largest container
and throw away the difference.
This chart shows that the same com-
pany—Takeda—that makes Velcade
sells this drug not in 3.5-milligram
vials, as in the United States, but, in
Europe, in 1-milligram vials. It seems
like a simple thing, doesn’t it, that you
would dispense this drug in a manner
so that it is not wasted? Sadly, wasting
and throwing away the drug is part of
their marketing strategy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.015 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1865
March 14, 2019
Another Japanese company, Eisai,
sells its chemotherapy drug Halaven
only in 1-milligram vials in the United
States but sells smaller vials—0.88 mil-
ligram—in Europe.
Merck’s immunotherapy drug
KEYTRUDA, which is truly a break-
through, an amazing drug—research
was done by taxpayers at the National
Institutes of Health, which led to the
development of this drug—they sell
this drug, KEYTRUDA, only in 100-mil-
ligram vials in the United States but in
50-milligram vials in Europe. In 2016,
Merck made $200 million on
KEYTRUDA—this lifesaving drug—
that was thrown away.
In 2016, I asked the inspector general
of Health and Human Services about
this waste of taxpayers’ money. The in-
spector general uncovered that Medi-
care spent $195 million in just 1 year on
20 identified drugs for medication that
was thrown away. That year, Takeda
received $47 million in taxpayer fund-
ing for amounts of Velcade thrown in
the trash. It wasn’t alone. Genentech’s
Rituxan, one of the most common can-
cer medications, only comes in vials
that are 100 milligrams or 500 milli-
grams. In 2013, Medicare wasted $10
million on Rituxan that was thrown
away.
It is for this reason that I am pre-
senting my second Pharma Fleece
Award to Takeda, Eisai, Merck, and
Genentech. Patients in America should
not face higher drug costs because
these Pharma fleecers choose to sell
their expensive cancer drugs in exces-
sively large drug vials that are nec-
essarily going to be wasted.
Two weeks ago, I teamed up with Re-
publican Senator ROB PORTMAN of Ohio
to introduce the REFUND Act—a sim-
ple bill that Senator PORTMAN and I
have introduced, and I hope others will
join us. It says that taxpayers will only
pay for the drug that is given to a pa-
tient, not for the part that is thrown
away. Medicare already tracks how
much of this medication is being dis-
carded, so the REFUND Act simply re-
quires Medicare to determine how
much was wasted and to recoup the
money from the drug companies. We
then provide a portion of that money
back to seniors for the 20-percent coin-
surance they have to pay for the drugs.
An important point: When Medicare
is paying for these drugs, and a lot are
being thrown away, the seniors are
still paying their 20 percent, even for
the drug portion that is being thrown
away. So ROB PORTMAN’s bill—the one
I have introduced with him—says that
the money recouped from the drug
companies will go back to the benefit
of these seniors. Under our new bill,
this pharma fleecing for drug vial
waste will soon come to an end so that
not just the patients but our govern-
ment will save money.
Remember the bottom line. When
you ask the major health insurers
today: What is driving the cost of
health insurance premiums, they say:
Senator, prescription drug pricing is
No. 1.
Blue Cross Blue Shield, based out of
Chicago, when I sit down with them,
say: We spend more money on prescrip-
tion drugs than we do on inpatient hos-
pital care.
To give you an idea, it is out of sight.
You can’t turn on a television set, par-
ticularly if you are over the age of 50,
without being bombarded with all
these drug ads, right? You have heard
them over and over again.
The No. 1 drug being sold on tele-
vision today is HUMIRA. What is it
for? psoriatic arthritis. It is serious. If
you have that arthritis, that may be a
lifesaver for you, but it is now being
sold for that little red patch on your
elbow called psoriasis. Interesting. Do
you know how much HUMIRA costs
each month? Five thousand dollars.
I have legislation that would require
these drug companies to advertise the
cost of their drugs on television. They
tell us everything else; don’t they?
They tell us, if you are allergic to
HUMIRA, don’t take HUMIRA. I have
never understood that warning. They
tell us everything under the Sun, but
they never mention the price. So what
I want to do is get the price out in
front of the public, and let them know
what being perfect in a swimsuit is
going to cost you per month.
From my point of view, there are
people who need these drugs des-
perately, and we ought to try to get
the prices within their reach. For those
who are overusing and abusing the air-
waves of America to advertise drugs—
to try to push doctors into writing the
scripts even when it is not necessary—
we have to come to grips with this. If
we don’t, we are not going to have a se-
rious effort to reduce the cost of health
insurance and the healthcare costs
that face our Nation.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
H.J. RES. 46
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I want
to congratulate the Presiding Officer
on being in the Senate and presiding
over the Senate.
I come to the floor to remind us how
we got here. President Trump told us
over and over and over again during his
campaign that Mexico would pay for
the wall. He said it at the beginning of
the campaign. He said it in the middle
of the campaign. He said it at the end
of the campaign.
He made that promise over and over
again. The U.S. Congress didn’t make
that promise. There is no way for Con-
gress to force Mexico to pay for the
wall. We cannot force Mexico to pay for
the wall. It is not Congress’s fault. It is
the President’s fault, and it is his
promise he has broken.
Instead of going to Mexico to get
them to pay for the wall, as he said he
would do over and over again, he has
now asked Congress to pay for it. He
has now asked the American taxpayer
to fulfill his broken promise.
By the way, that is after 2 years of
having a Republican majority in the
Senate and a Republican majority in
the House who said: We don’t want to
build your wall. We are not going to
help you keep your promise. In fact,
you promised Mexico would pay for the
wall. Go get Mexico to pay for the wall
is what the Republican Senate and the
Republican House said.
So he was frustrated. He said how
frustrated he was. He went out to the
American people during the 2018 elec-
tion, and the people rewarded him by
electing Democrats to be the majority
in the House of Representatives.
Then, last December, those Demo-
crats offered the President $1.3 billion
for border security. It wasn’t for his
medieval wall. It is for what he now
calls steel slats.
Instead of accepting that fact—the
fact that nobody here wants to fund
the wall he said Mexico would pay for—
he shut down the government for 35
days. Then, after all the misery he in-
flicted, after the billions of dollars he
cost our economy, to say nothing of
what he did to the Federal workers, he
basically got exactly the same deal as
he got before he shut down the govern-
ment, making the shutdown pointless,
making the billions of dollars of lost
wages and economic activity in Amer-
ica pointless, all a casualty of his in-
ability to keep his promise that Mexico
would pay for the wall and his inability
to get Republican majorities in the
House and the Senate to build his wall.
So having failed to get Mexico to pay
for the wall, having failed to get a Re-
publican Congress to pay for the wall,
he now says he is going to declare a na-
tional emergency to pay for the wall.
We should ask ourselves—we must
ask ourselves—whether this is an ap-
propriate use of emergency power. By
the way, if it was an appropriate use of
emergency power, why didn’t he just
declare an emergency before he shut
the government down for 35 days? Why
cost the economy billions and billions
of dollars if you can just do this by de-
claring an emergency? The easy answer
for that is that it is not an emergency.
He is only doing this now because he
lost the negotiation. He lost his lever-
age. He embarrassed himself by having
the longest shutdown in American his-
tory.
This is not a national emergency.
This is just plan B. The President has
admitted as much as he was signing
the declaration itself—the declaration
of emergency. He said:
I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it
much faster. . . . I just want to get it done
faster, that’s all.
It is not an emergency. He just wants
to get it done faster, which is aston-
ishing coming from a guy who has not
spent the money that Congress has al-
ready appropriated for the wall. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.016 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1866 March 14, 2019
hasn’t even spent that money, and now
he is saying he wants to go faster, and
he has to declare a national emergency
to do it.
By the way, America, you may have
noticed that the President is also now
saying that ‘‘much of the wall has al-
ready been fully renovated or built.’’
‘‘Much of the wall has already been
fully renovated or built.’’ That is what
your President is saying to you at the
exact same time he is saying that he
needs a national emergency to build
the wall. It is preposterous. It is a joke.
On top of everything else, he is not
telling the truth about that. He has not
built a mile of this wall since he has
been President of the United States,
even though Congress has appropriated
more than $1 billion—I think about $1.7
billion—to do it.
When he signed the emergency dec-
laration, he said that national emer-
gencies have ‘‘been signed many times
before. It’s been signed by other presi-
dents from 1977 or so; it gave the presi-
dents the power.’’
‘‘There’s rarely been a problem’’ the
President said. ‘‘They sign it. Nobody
cares.’’ That is what he said.
Nobody cared because those were real
emergencies, not fake emergencies.
They weren’t emergencies being de-
clared by Presidents who had promised
that Mexico would do something, and
then it didn’t happen, and now they
had to declare an emergency. They cer-
tainly were not cases where the Presi-
dent came to the Congress, including a
Congress of their own party, and said, I
want to do something, and they said
no. Then, they said: Well, we are going
to declare an emergency.
That has never happened before in
American history.
By the way, if we go down this road,
this will not be the last time this hap-
pens. This will happen time and again,
which is why every Member of the Sen-
ate should vote for this measure of dis-
approval.
Since 1976, when Congress passed the
National Emergencies Act, Presidents
have declared national emergencies 58
times. Fifty-three of those times have
been to do things like block the sale of
weapons to foreign countries or to
sanction governments, like Iran and
North Korea. The four remaining cases
were after two U.S. planes were shot
down by Cuba, after we invaded Iraq
and desperately needed to protect crit-
ical infrastructure, after the outbreak
of swine flu, and after 9/11.
Failing to fulfill his promise that
Mexico would pay for the wall is not a
national emergency, and if he thinks it
is, he should sanction himself for fail-
ing to keep his promise.
As I said earlier—and this should
bother everybody who believes in our
system of checks and balances and who
believes in the Constitution—never has
a President sought to enact a national
emergency like this after Congress has
said no. In our Constitution, Congress
has the power of the purse. Every sin-
gle Senator should be voting to protect
that.
Over the months and now stretching
into years, I have been shocked at how
the people around here who declare
that they are constitutional conserv-
atives have put up with a President
who obviously doesn’t care about the
rule of law, doesn’t care about the sep-
aration of powers—as you see here—
isn’t concerned about having an inde-
pendent judiciary, and wants to threat-
en the leading journalists of this coun-
try, calling them fake news.
I would think this step would be one
step too far, even for anybody in this
Chamber who supported this craziness
up until this point.
Let’s add it all up. What has it gotten
us? The President couldn’t get Mexico
to pay for the wall. He couldn’t get a
Republican House and a Republican
Senate to pay for the wall. So now he
is violating the Constitution to steal
money that has been appropriated by
this branch—by Congress. He is steal-
ing that money from the Department
of Defense, from our warfighters, and
from the U.S. military to expropriate
private land held by American farmers
and ranchers—many of whom I assume
are Republicans—through eminent do-
main.
As I have said on this floor before, if
any President tried to do that in Colo-
rado, there is not a person in our dele-
gation who would support that—steal-
ing our farms and ranches.
It must be said that, for a politician,
he has a very unusual view about emi-
nent domain. Here are some quotes of
his: ‘‘I think eminent domain is won-
derful.’’
For those of you who don’t know
what eminent domain is, it is when a
government decides it wants a project,
and your house is in the middle of
where that project is going to go. Then,
the government can use this thing
called eminent domain to take your
house and pay you for it. That is what
it is. It is rarely used because most
people don’t want the government de-
ciding whether they can live in their
house or on their farm or on their
ranch, which—in the case of people on
the border of the United States—has
been in their family for generations.
That is why the local Congressman
down there doesn’t want this wall
built. I think he is a Republican.
But the President said: ‘‘I think emi-
nent domain is wonderful’’—not some-
times essential, not a tool that is use-
ful from time to time. He said it is
‘‘wonderful.’’
He said: ‘‘Eminent domain is some-
thing that has to be used, usually you
would say for anything that’s long,
like a road, like a pipeline, or like a
wall, or a fence.’’
He didn’t say steel slats, but I am
sure the same thing applies.
Here is another quote. This is fas-
cinating. I have not met a single per-
son in Colorado who would agree with
this—not one—and I bet you there is
not a person in Mississippi or Texas or
Alabama who would agree with this
sentiment either. This is what the
President of the United States said:
Most of the time, they just want money.
It’s very rarely they say, ‘‘I love my house,
I love my house, it’s the greatest thing
ever.’’
Here is another quote—and just for
everybody who is watching this be-
cause people are going to come out on
this floor and say: Oh, no, the money
will not be used for it in this case—not
for a wall, not for eminent domain.
Donald Trump says:
We are going to need a little eminent do-
main to get that wall built, just so you un-
derstand. . . . You need eminent domain, you
have to take certain areas, okay?
That is the kind of language you
would expect out of some autocrat
someplace, not in a democracy.
I say to my Republican friends here
who are going to vote with the Presi-
dent on this bill, that is what you are
supporting when you are voting with
him on this bill.
I don’t know how anybody goes home
and defends that. For anyone who
wants to go home and defend misappro-
priating money that has been dedicated
to the Department of Defense and to
our military and to take that money
extra-constitutionally and use it to
take the property of law-abiding citi-
zens, I don’t understand how you de-
fend it.
I am not making any of this up.
These are his words. By the way, it is
no wonder he can’t get it through the
people’s Representatives in Congress
because there is not a single person
here who would ever admit to doing
what he is about to do and what he
says he wants to do. What a betrayal of
conservative principles this is.
As I said, this whole exercise itself is
an admission that he has broken his
promise to the American people.
We didn’t break it, Republicans in
the Senate. We didn’t break it, and we
should not help him keep it if it is
going to break the Constitution. In
fact, we can’t help him keep it unless
somebody around here has a way of
persuading Mexico to build the wall or
pay for the wall, which I don’t think
there is a single person here who has
that kind of influence, as influential as
all of us think we are.
I don’t understand it, but it is amaz-
ing to me why people would cash in
their conservative principles so cheap-
ly—$3.6 billion.
The idea that you would be willing to
give up your principles in such a taw-
dry exchange should be infuriating to
the real conservatives who I know are
in this country. Many of them live in
my State of Colorado, which is a third
Republican, a third Independent, and a
third Democratic. Don’t come to our
State and tell us you are taking away
our houses because we don’t care about
them—that we will just take the
money instead for a broken promise
that you didn’t keep. That would not
sell in Colorado. I don’t know why it
sells in Texas. I can’t imagine that it
does. I don’t know how anybody could
support that.
By the way, that is not even the most
important point. The most important
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.018 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1867
March 14, 2019
point is that we have ground ourselves
up for a 35-day government shutdown,
for 3 months of media cycles on this
fight by the President on a wall that he
now says is almost fully built, while he
is declaring an emergency to build a
wall that hasn’t been built.
While we are screwing around here to
keep a broken promise that Mexico is
going to pay for the wall, this is what
was going on in China. By the way, I
know somebody is going to say: Hey,
they have a wall. They do have a wall.
They built it 500 years ago. That is not
what they are working on today. They
took care of that medieval wall 500
years ago.
Today, what they are doing is they
are spending $125 billion on high-speed
rail this year alone. That is $125 billion
on high-speed rail. You get on one of
those trains and you could hear a pin
drop. If you go on Amtrak, which I
take all the time—I feel grateful that
we have it—it is less than half the
speed, and you can’t put your Coca-
Cola on the table in front of you with-
out it falling over or falling on your
neighbor.
China has spent $300 billion on new
roads, bridges, and ports across the
globe through their Belt and Road Ini-
tiative. They have bought stakes in 16
different ports across Europe and the
Mediterranean, some of which have
fallen into their hands because—and
this is part of the plan—the debt that
the countries have put on to build the
ports is so onerous that China gets to
own the ports. They have built the
longest sea bridge in the world. They
have laid over 3,700 miles of fiber optic
cable to connect Africa to Latin Amer-
ica and, ultimately, to China. On that
Belt and Road Initiative, they have
laid their technology over that with
fiber optic cables so they could extend
the surveillance society that they are
building inside of China right now,
while we screw around with this wall.
By the way, on the $3.6 billion for the
wall, here is an interesting chart. Here
is how much cement China used over a
3-year period, from 2011 to 2013. This is
what they used in 3 years, 2011 to 2013.
I was in the Congress then. We were in
the depths of the great recession dur-
ing that period of time. It was 6.6
gigatons of concrete. Here is how much
we have built in concrete in 100 years:
4.5 gigatons.
They used 4.5 gigatons in 3 years.
They have used dramatically more
than we have used in 100 years, and we
can’t even get an infrastructure bill off
this floor. The White House can’t even
write an infrastructure bill.
All night, every night, on the cable,
all we hear is $3.6 billion for the wall,
the wall, the wall—the wall that the
President says has already been mostly
built, that he is now declaring a na-
tional emergency to build.
The world is racing ahead of us, as I
have said on this floor over and over
again, while we are getting run around
by one inane distraction after another.
It has been said that the President is
somebody who is mostly concerned
with winning the politics of any given
day. That is what he tries to do, and he
is often very effective at it. We spend a
lot of time talking about him and his
priorities, unlike figuring out a plan to
counteract what China is doing or oth-
ers are doing.
I bet they have a great strategy in
China and Iran. Russia is not so obvi-
ously good at that strategy. Actually,
come to think of it, they are pretty
good, too. If you can stay off FOX
News, the President will not pay any
attention to what you are doing, so go
do whatever it is you want to do while
we fritter away one day after another
of the American people’s time over a
broken promise that he never could
keep.
Unless we are prepared to be the first
generation of Americans to leave less
opportunity, not more, to the people
coming after us, we need to do a lot
better than what we are doing, and
part of that is to ensure that we pre-
serve the institutions that built this
country, like the one we are standing
in right now.
I know that among some people there
is an effort to divide the government
from the American people and that
there are people here who think they
have been sent here for one purpose,
which is to discredit the Federal Gov-
ernment.
I have a lot of problems with the Fed-
eral Government—lots of them. I was a
school superintendent before I came
here. I have a lot of problems with
what is happening to poor children who
are going to schools in our public sys-
tem of education across the country, so
I am not here to defend government or
the way it works right now. In fact, I
don’t think Democrats should be the
party defending bad government. We
should fix it where it needs to be fixed.
We are talking here about our insti-
tutions. We are talking here about the
rule of law. We are talking here about
the Constitution that generation after
generation after generation of Ameri-
cans has preserved—not always per-
fectly, often very imperfectly.
Every generation of Americans has
seen it as their obligation, their re-
sponsibility, to at least try to live up
to the pages in our founding docu-
ments, and where we failed, we got up
and we tried again. This whole country
is founded on the idea that we will
have disagreements because we live in
a Republic, and in a Republic, you have
disagreements. There is no King or ty-
rant to tell you what to think. That is
the reason we live in a democratic Re-
public.
This place here and the Chamber
down the hall are part of the mecha-
nisms that were drafted into our found-
ing documents for us to resolve our dis-
agreements. The Founders believed
something. They had no good example
in the past, but here is what they be-
lieved. They believed that out of that
vigorous disagreement, we would cre-
ate more imaginative and durable solu-
tions than any tyrant could ever come
up with on their own. That is why they
designed the institutions the way they
did, and that is why they created the
checks and balances that they did.
There is a reason no President has ever
done what this President is trying to
do.
They exercise self-restraint because
of what is in the Constitution and be-
cause nobody on this floor would have
supported him. There are many ways
this generation of politicians—and I ac-
cept my share of the blame. There are
many ways in which we have degraded
these institutions in our time. We have
destroyed the Senate’s responsibility
to advise and consent on judicial nomi-
nations and Supreme Court nomina-
tions. That has been turned into a
purely partisan exercise by this genera-
tion of American politicians. I am
ashamed of that. I am ashamed to have
been here when we did that, and I take
my share of the responsibility.
What I say to my colleagues is that
we cannot continue to degrade these
institutions and expect that the next
generation of Americans is going to
look back on us with anything except
contempt. Generation after generation
after generation of Americans has pre-
served these institutions so the next
generation could have the opportunity
to resolve their disagreements in these
Chambers. We will regret it. We will re-
gret it if we go down this road.
As the majority leader said in an-
other time: Things have a way of
changing around here sooner than you
think, and someday the shoe will be on
the other foot. If this Republican sets
this precedent and some Democratic
President follows it, that is one more
step away from living in the Republic
that we all claim we cherish, from the
democracy we all claim we cherish, to
put power in the hands of a tyrant who
may or may not represent the will of
the American people.
We may never get another vote like
this around here. This is going to be
the time that each of us is going to de-
cide whether we are going to act to
preserve these institutions for the next
generation or whether we are going to
continue to degrade them in our mind-
less partisanship and, in this case, to
somehow fulfill a promise the Presi-
dent never could keep. That would be a
shameful day in the U.S. Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President,
when President Trump declared a na-
tional emergency over the crisis along
our southern border, it was imme-
diately met with expressions of con-
cern—some, in my view, illegitimate;
others, quite legitimate.
As I have said in the past, I will re-
peat again that this—what we are
doing here today—is no one’s first
choice, but it is useful to recall how we
find ourselves at this point today.
Of course, when it comes to funding,
when it comes to appropriations, Con-
gress holds the purse. That is why,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.019 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1868 March 14, 2019
each year, the Congress receives the
President’s budget request for the up-
coming fiscal year, just as we did ear-
lier this week.
Even though, in the President’s budg-
et, he outlines his priorities, my expe-
rience in the Senate is that most Presi-
dential budgets, while they are an ex-
pression of the President’s priorities,
are dead on arrival. It then falls to us,
in the Senate and the House, to look at
his request and to work on a com-
promise budget and appropriations
process and fund the operations of the
Federal Government.
This process is arduous, it is time-
consuming, and it is often frustrating,
but it is the way the system is sup-
posed to work. As all Americans can
attest, what we have seen over the last
few months looks like something very
different. The refusal of Democrats in
the House and the Senate to engage in
negotiations on border security fund-
ing led us to a 35-day government shut-
down.
Despite the clear message from bor-
der security experts, despite seeing the
humanitarian crisis at the border, de-
scribed by President Obama in 2014, get
many times worse, our Democratic col-
leagues decided to play politics instead
of dealing with the problem.
We heard the Speaker of the House
call border barriers immoral. The mi-
nority leader here in the Senate said
that there would be no additional
money for physical barriers along the
border. They know, just as I know, that
back in 2006 and 2008, the Secure Fence
Act was passed with broad bipartisan
support, including support from then-
Senator Barack Obama, then-Senator
Hillary Clinton, and Senator CHUCK
SCHUMER, currently the Democratic
leader in the Senate, who now feels
that this President should not get any
additional money to fund border secu-
rity measures that the President be-
lieves are an important response to the
crisis we see at the border.
My preference would be for the nor-
mal appropriations process to be used,
but when your negotiating partners
refuse to take a seat at the table, nor-
mal goes out the window. Our col-
leagues across the aisle left the Presi-
dent with few options to fund what he
believed was so important for the Na-
tion’s security, and that is what led us
to this situation.
Enter the 1976 legislation, the Na-
tional Emergencies Act. What the
President did is ask his lawyers to look
at what other authority, under con-
gressionally passed laws signed by pre-
vious Presidents, might he have to ac-
cess additional funds, and his lawyers
pointed to the 1976 National Emer-
gencies Act, which has granted Presi-
dents, since that time, broad powers to
reprogram funding previously appro-
priated by Congress.
This idea that somehow this is an un-
constitutional act by this President is
simply wrong. Congress has given the
President this authority. They may re-
gret it today or they may disagree that
this is an emergency or they may dis-
agree with the way the President
wants to spend the money to secure the
border, but, clearly, the President is
using authorities the Congress has pre-
viously granted, not just to him but to
all Presidents since 1976.
My father liked to remind me grow-
ing up—one of the things he always
told me is that hindsight is always 20–
20. Our predecessors did not anticipate
the fights we would be having today,
which are largely contrived and unnec-
essary. We should be working together
to solve these problems, not engaged in
a zero-sum game of political brinkman-
ship. That is what brought us to where
we are today.
I think it is appropriate to look at
what Congress did in 1976, and in a pro-
spective sort of way, ask ourselves:
Have we delegated too much authority
to Presidents since that time? There
are literally 123 statutory authoriza-
tions that could be invoked under the
National Emergencies Act—123 times
that Congress has said a President,
upon the declaration of a national
emergency, can reprogram money that
Congress has appropriated—123 times.
That was a shock not only to me but,
I dare say, to virtually all of our col-
leagues here in the Senate.
Many of these statutory grants of au-
thority are exceedingly broad. They
cover everything from the military to
public health to Federal pay schedules.
With these broad authorities already
part of the law, the emergency powers
provision could be viewed as a fail-safe
for an agenda that the administra-
tion—an administration alone—is
pushing. Let’s say, hypothetically,
that a future President decides there is
a need to declare a national emergency
over climate change. Maybe they de-
cide this is a way to enact the Green
New Deal being pushed by some of our
colleagues across the aisle.
Considering the potential scope and
scale in which these powers could be
abused in the future and this overdele-
gation of authority that Congress has
done 123 times, I believe we should take
a look at the National Emergencies
Act, once we vote today, and have a
fulsome debate and discussion about
whether this is really the sort of dele-
gation of powers that the Founding Fa-
thers intended when they said that dis-
tinct separated power should be given
to each branch of the government: the
legislative, the judicial, and the execu-
tive branch.
It is clear that the President is oper-
ating within the authority Congress
has given to him. You don’t have to
like it. You don’t have to agree with it,
but it is clear the President is oper-
ating within the authority Congress
delegated to him. Rather than talking
in circles and debating that fact, I
think our discussion should focus on
the structure of emergency powers
moving forward.
I believe there is a need to rein back
in some of the authority that Congress
has delegated to presidents just as a
constitutional concern, as a constitu-
tional matter, which is why I am co-
sponsoring a bill which has been intro-
duced by our colleague Senator LEE
which gives Congress a stronger voice
in processes under the National Emer-
gencies Act.
That bill will now be referred to the
Homeland Security Committee. Chair-
man JOHNSON has said he will give that
bill a hearing and then a markup. Then
I would expect, at some point, that leg-
islation will make its way to the Sen-
ate floor where we will have a debate
and a vote.
The proposal would allow the Presi-
dent to maintain his statutory powers
to declare an emergency, but that dec-
laration would end after 30 days unless
Congress affirmatively votes to extend
it. This would maintain a President’s
ability to provide funding during na-
tional emergencies while restoring
Congress’s proper authority under arti-
cle I of the Constitution. I think this is
an honest and important effort to
hopefully prevent us from ending up in
this predicament in the future.
The real cause of where we are today
is just politics—Ms. PELOSI’s deciding
that building any border barrier was
immoral, after Democrats and Repub-
licans had not made that a particularly
political decision in the past. In fact, it
had been bipartisan that we did sup-
port it as one tool in the toolbox for
Border Patrol, in addition to tech-
nology and personnel, some physical
barriers.
Rather than scolding the President of
the United States for exercising statu-
tory authority that Congress has al-
ready given, we should try to work to-
gether to solve these problems rather
than engaging in the kind of political
brinksmanship that brings us here
today. We should fix—should it be the
will of Congress—this massive delega-
tion of authority not just to this Presi-
dent but to any President since 1976.
I have to disagree with our colleague
from Colorado and others who suggest
that what is happening at the border is
not serious. By the way, I haven’t
heard any of them suggest any alter-
native solutions. Perhaps instead of
Border Patrol securing the border we
ought to have police officers at the bor-
der directing traffic, waving people
through to their chosen destination. I
think that would be a terrible mistake,
but that seems to be the only alter-
native our friends across the aisle are
offering to this humanitarian crisis
and emergency at the border.
Last month, 76,000 people illegally
crossed the border and were appre-
hended by U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, making this an 11-year
high. So rather than 76,000 people in 1
month, which our Democratic col-
leagues don’t seem to think is a prob-
lem, let’s say next month it is 150,000
or 300,000 or 600,000. As long as we have
this attraction for people from other
countries to come to the United States,
and if they pay the fee to the criminal
organizations that transport them
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.021 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1869
March 14, 2019
here, they will successfully make their
way into the United States. They are
going to keep coming.
It is clear this problem isn’t going
away, and it is overwhelming the com-
munities along the border as well as
the Federal Government’s ability to
deal with it.
I remember what the Director of Cus-
toms and Border Protection said. He
said: When the Border Patrol is hand-
ing out diapers and juice boxes to chil-
dren coming across the border, the
drug cartels will exploit that and move
their poison into the United States. I
will just remind my colleagues that
more than 70,000 Americans died of
drug overdoses last year alone. A sub-
stantial amount of it was synthetic
opioids in the form of fentanyl, but a
lot of it had to do with heroin that had
made its way from Mexico into the
United States because 90 percent of the
heroin that comes into the United
States comes from Mexico. So while
the Border Patrol is handing out dia-
pers and juice boxes, the drug cartels
are moving in heroin, fentanyl, and
methamphetamine across the border
into our Nation and getting rich in the
process.
We know border security is com-
plicated, and that it is not just about
security, it is about facilitating legiti-
mate trade, travel, and commerce. Last
year alone, there was $300 billion worth
of commerce that took place just at
Texas ports of entry with Mexico—$300
billion. That supports an awful lot of
American jobs.
The terrain in the 1,200-mile border
between Texas and Mexico varies sig-
nificantly. What works well in one sec-
tor does not work well in another.
What I continue to hear from my con-
stituents, including elected officials at
the border, is that if this is the Border
Patrol telling us what they need in
order to succeed to do the job we have
asked them to do, we are all in, but if
this is just politics and elected officials
in Washington trying to micromanage
the solution along the border, we are
skeptical. This is what they tell me,
and I don’t blame them.
I think we need to take action to
adequately fund our border security
missions, and I hope our discussions in
the coming months will be more pro-
ductive than they will be this year.
I will vote against the resolution of
disapproval today and encourage my
colleagues to instead ask my col-
leagues to focus their energy on re-
forming the legislation that got us into
this situation to begin with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
am here this afternoon to support the
resolution that would terminate the
President’s unconstitutional emer-
gency declaration. It is a declaration
that would take money away from crit-
ical military construction projects to
fund a costly and ineffective border
wall.
Congress did not provide these funds
for a border wall that President Trump
promised Mexico would pay for; rather,
we specifically allocated these re-
sources that are being talked about to
be used by the President for the wall to
ensure that our military is ready and
capable and that our servicemembers
receive the support they deserve.
The President’s attempt to cir-
cumvent Congress by making the mili-
tary pay for his border wall jeopardizes
our national security and does a dis-
service to our men and women in uni-
form. That is why the House passed the
legislation on the Senate floor today
and why I introduced legislation with
my colleagues in the Senate to termi-
nate the emergency declaration.
The resources Congress has provided
support military construction projects
in New Hampshire and across the coun-
try. Those projects often provide nec-
essary infrastructure improvements
that enable our servicemembers to ac-
complish their mission.
Several of those projects that, I
think, are potentially being reviewed
for being added to the list of projects
to have money taken from are at the
Portsmouth Naval shipyard. It is one
of the many installations that faces po-
tential cuts in funding if this emer-
gency declaration is executed. Con-
gress has already approved funding for
several projects at the shipyard and at
our public shipyards around the coun-
try that support critical submarine
maintenance, and any disruption to
funding of those projects could lead to
costly delays and to a reduction in
military readiness because they would
derail carefully laid plans to upgrade
aging infrastructure. Delays in projects
that support the shipyard’s mission
threaten to exacerbate the Navy’s al-
ready high demand for submarine
maintenance and the projected sub-
marine shortfall in the coming years.
I recently sent a letter to President
Trump and spoke with the leaders at
DOD urging them to protect these im-
portant projects at the shipyard, but
the only way to ensure that these
projects move forward is to terminate
the emergency declaration.
In addition to projects at the ship-
yard, the emergency declaration could
also impact New Hampshire’s National
Guard readiness centers, which are in
desperate need of modernization. A 2014
report from the Army National Guard
ranked the condition of New Hamp-
shire’s National Guard facilities 51 out
of 54 States and territories.
Our National Guard has been forced
to shoulder an enormous burden since
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Serv-
icemembers have often faced multiple
deployments, and they still had to re-
spond to national disasters at home
and to other personal crises. The New
Hampshire National Guard can’t afford
further delays to the readiness center
improvements because of President
Trump’s emergency declaration.
These military construction projects
in New Hampshire are at risk because
President Trump wants to score polit-
ical points by building a wall rather
than focusing on the border security
proposals that actually work. I was dis-
appointed to hear my colleague from
Texas accusing Democrats of not sup-
porting border security because, in
fact, virtually everyone here has sup-
ported significant border security pro-
posals in the past, including targeted
fencing in vulnerable areas where we
know fencing or barriers can make a
difference. We have supported more
Border Patrol agents, better surveil-
lance and screening technologies, and
increased security at the ports of
entry.
Coming from a State where we have
a huge challenge with the opioid epi-
demic, where we understand the impact
of having cocaine and fentanyl and
other drugs come across our border, I
also know the best way to interdict
those drugs is through the ports of
entry. That is where most of them are
coming from.
In a recent bipartisan budget agree-
ment Congress provided, I supported,
along with the majority of this Senate,
nearly $15 billion for Customs and Bor-
der Protection, including $1.3 billion
for physical infrastructure in vulner-
able areas along the southern border.
The reality at our borders is, the vast
majority of drugs and contraband come
through the ports of entry. They don’t
come through the areas between the
ports of entry.
In the past 2 months alone, law en-
forcement officials have made the larg-
est cocaine seizure in the past 25 years
at Newark, NJ, and the largest
fentanyl seizure ever at any port of
entry in the U.S. in Arizona. Despite
this reality, President Trump insists
on having our military bear the burden
to fulfill his campaign promise.
His insistence that the situation at
the border requires the military to pay
for his wall runs counter to what I have
heard in the Senate Armed Services
Committee from our military leaders.
In a recent Senate Armed Services
Committee hearing, General
O’Shaughnessy, Commander of U.S.
Northern Command, testified that the
threats to our Nation on our southern
border are not military in nature, and
he has never advised the President that
a border wall is necessary to support
his mission. Just this morning, we
heard testimony at our SASC hearing
with Secretary Shanahan and Joint
Chiefs Chairman Dunford that we have
more troops on our southern border
with Mexico than we have in all of Eu-
rope, on Europe’s eastern border with
Russia, and we have almost as many on
our southern border, and one-quarter
as many as we have on the DMZ on the
border with North Korea. By any meas-
ure, North Korea and Russia pose a
greater threat to our national security
than Mexico. It is a policy that does
not make sense. Yet we have more
troops on the southern border now than
we do in Eastern Europe and in Syria.
The fact is, the men and women at
the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and at
the New Hampshire National Guard
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.022 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1870 March 14, 2019
and men and women serving in our
military across this country should not
be forced to sacrifice readiness for an
unnecessary border wall that takes
funding away from projects that this
Congress has already approved that are
going forward.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to protect Congress’s con-
stitutional authority and defend our
national security by supporting the
resolution to terminate President
Trump’s emergency declaration.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that there be
90 minutes of debate, equally divided,
remaining on the joint resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
LIBERIAN-AMERICANS
Mr. REED. Madam President, I come
to the floor today to plead on behalf of
Liberians who face the immediate
threat of deportation from the only
home many of them have known.
I have come to the floor many times
over the last two decades to highlight
the plight of Liberians, who, after flee-
ing civil wars, political turmoil, eco-
nomic instability, and deadly disease,
were given the ability to stay in the
United States and work, pay taxes, and
contribute to our country and local
communities by successive Republican
and Democratic administrations—that
is, until last year, when this President
terminated deferred enforced depar-
tures, DED, the most recent status of-
fered to Liberians. I urge the President
to reconsider his decision and reinstate
DED by March 31 to save Liberians
from being forced to leave their jobs,
their families, and their homes.
Moreover, the Liberian community
deserves a long-term solution. That is
why I also urge my colleagues to take
up S. 456, the Liberian Refugee Immi-
gration Fairness Act, to end the per-
petual limbo for Liberians here in the
United States and ensure our national
security interest in fostering Liberia’s
recovery. This bill provides legal status
and a pathway to citizenship for quali-
fying Liberians. I have introduced
similar legislation continuously since
coming to the Senate and have worked
to include its key objectives in com-
prehensive immigration reform bills
that passed the Senate in years gone
by, only to die in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
I have been joined in this mission by
countless advocates and many col-
leagues, including my Rhode Island
colleague, Senator SHELDON WHITE-
HOUSE, as well as Senators KLOBUCHAR,
SMITH, DURBIN, CARDIN, VAN HOLLEN,
and others. I thank them for their sup-
port and urge the rest of our colleagues
to join us in supporting the Liberians
who are hard at work enriching our
communities.
Today, I met with several Liberians
from Rhode Island. I hope my col-
leagues similarly meet with Liberians
from their States so they can hear
firsthand about what would be lost if
these members of our communities are
deported.
Beginning with its founding in the
early 19th century by freed American
slaves, our country has had deep ties
with Liberia. It goes without saying
that when Liberians faced tragedy,
with their country engulfed by a civil
war that would last from 1989 to 1997,
claiming the lives of thousands, dis-
placing more than half the country’s
population, halting food production,
collapsing the economy, and destroying
its infrastructure, that our country
would open its arms.
By 1991, an estimated 14,000 Liberians
had fled to the United States. In March
of that year, the Attorney General
under President Bush granted them the
opportunity to register for temporary
protected status, TPS.
Before the prospects for a safe return
could be realized, Liberia plunged into
a second civil war from 1999 to 2003.
This horrific conflict ended with the
departure from power of former Presi-
dent Charles Taylor, who is currently
serving a 50-year prison sentence by
the Special Court for Sierra Leone for
war crimes.
In 2014, still poverty-stricken and
struggling to recover, Liberia found
itself plunged into an extensive out-
break of the Ebola virus. Ebola killed
an estimated nearly 5,000 of the over
10,000 persons in Liberia who con-
tracted the disease. The outbreak over-
whelmed the country’s already fragile
healthcare system, infrastructure, and
economy while exacerbating social ten-
sions.
Throughout these tragic conflicts
and challenges, Liberians who fled to
the United States have been granted
the ability to stay here either under
TPS or DED while conditions remain
unstable in Liberia. In order to partici-
pate, these Liberians had to submit to
vigorous vetting, pay hefty fees, and
stay out of trouble with the law.
While unable to access earned bene-
fits available to American citizens,
these statuses at least allowed Libe-
rians to apply for work authorizations
so they could join the workforce or
start their own businesses, pay taxes,
and raise families. Once again, they
work, but they do not earn any of the
benefits other Americans earn.
They have found themselves and
their communities have found them to
be some of the most responsible, hard-
working, and decent people we see
throughout our communities. Many of
these individuals have American cit-
izen children who attend American
schools and serve in our military.
These children have known no home
other than America. They are Ameri-
cans, and it would be a tragedy if their
parents and grandparents were sud-
denly taken away, physically taken
away and sent back to Liberia, because
for all of them, since the early 1990s,
America has been their home.
In the years since 1989, Liberians
have become our neighbors and friends,
pastors, soldiers, police officers, health
workers, and many more professions.
They are an important community
that contributes a great deal of diver-
sity and prosperity in States like
Rhode Island, Minnesota, Idaho, and
other places around the country. It
would do our country no good and
would be simply cruel to uproot these
Liberians from their families, employ-
ers, and communities.
Moreover, deporting these Liberians
would be contrary to the national in-
terest of the United States and desta-
bilizing to the already fragile West Af-
rican region. We must pursue all pos-
sible efforts to ensure regional sta-
bility by fostering Liberia’s continuous
post-war and post-Ebola crisis recov-
ery. We must also continue to build on
our country’s substantial foreign pol-
icy investments over the past years, in-
cluding U.S. bilateral assistance and
peacekeeping investments in the re-
gion.
Given Liberia’s precarious condition
and lack of resources, the sudden de-
portation of as many as 4,500 affected
people to Liberia would overburden the
country’s limited infrastructure and
ability to maintain peace and deliver
essential services, all the while sabo-
taging the hopes for progress following
the country’s first democratic transi-
tion of power in years that occurred
last year. Deporting this population
would also cause Liberia economic
harm by curtailing crucial private sec-
tor investment and socioeconomic as-
sistance that Liberians in America
have long provided in the form of re-
mittances to their relatives in Liberia.
I again plead with the Trump admin-
istration to reinstate DED. Please
don’t separate and uproot hundreds of
Liberian-American families from their
jobs and homes and force them to re-
turn to a country that is unrecogniz-
able for many of them. These Liberians
are Americans in every sense of the
word except for a piece of paper.
While discussions continue about the
best path forward for Dreamers and
TPS, Liberians cannot wait another
month or another year. They have just
over 2 weeks before their time may be
up.
In my view, with each year that has
passed since the first of these Liberians
arrived, the case has grown stronger
that they should have the option to ad-
just their status and remain in the
communities where they have made
their homes and raised their families.
We have long since reached the point
where simple justice requires that Con-
gress extend this option to these Libe-
rians. So in addition to urging Presi-
dent Trump to reinstate DED, I also
urge my colleagues to take up and pass
the Liberian Refugee Immigration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.023 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1871
March 14, 2019
Fairness Act and put an end to uncer-
tainty for this population after decades
of displacement.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
H.J. RES. 46
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise,
as colleagues of mine have earlier
today, to talk about the President’s
emergency declaration. Before I do, I
will just say that this declaration deals
with budgetary matters at the end of
the day, whether the President should
be able to take $6.1 billion this year
and possibly more in future years from
the Pentagon’s budget to deal with a
nonbudgetary emergency.
I want to acknowledge that today is
the last day of my budget staffer, my
right hand on all Federal budget mat-
ters for the last 61⁄2 years, Ron
Storhaug. I am going to miss him. I
will start there. I will miss Ron. He has
done such a good job. My only good
feeling is that he is staying right here
in the Senate and moving to work with
the senior Senator from Maryland.
I want to talk about the declaration
and urge my colleagues to vote to re-
ject what I believe is the President’s
unwise use of his power to raid the
Pentagon’s budget.
Is there an emergency at the border?
There is a serious issue at the border—
a whole series of serious issues, nega-
tive but also positive. Trade happens
across all the borders of the country.
But all the testimony before the Armed
Services Committee, where I sit, says
there is no military emergency at the
border. We heard testimony from Gen-
eral O’Shaughnessy, who is the com-
mander of what we call NORTHCOM—
everything in the Americas north of
Mexico’s southern border. General
O’Shaughnessy said there is no mili-
tary emergency at the border between
the United States and Mexico. We
heard the same testimony this morning
from Defense Secretary Shanahan and
the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
General Dunford. So there is no mili-
tary emergency at the border.
Compared to other significant chal-
lenges we deal with—70,000 drug over-
dose deaths a year, climate change,
40,000 deaths a year from gun violence,
including both homicides and suicides,
homelessness, lack of medical care,
military housing—it is hard to see why
the border issue would be an emer-
gency that would rise to the top of any
list. I can certainly assert this: There
are much higher priorities for Vir-
ginians.
While we could argue about whether
it is an emergency, one thing I think is
pretty clear—it is inarguably a Presi-
dential power grab. The President is
unhappy with congressional appropria-
tions for the border, so he is declaring
an emergency to take $6.1 billion this
year and possibly more in future years
from the Pentagon’s budget. This will
establish a very dangerous precedent.
First, let’s focus on the President’s
being unhappy. For all of this Presi-
dent’s tenure up until January 3, he
had two Republican Houses. There were
two Republican Houses and a Repub-
lican President. Why should he be un-
happy with the budget? He would have
had the ability to convince Republican
majorities to do what he wanted, but
he could not. So he is unhappy with
what Congress, the appropriating
branch, has put on the table. We put
billions of dollars on the table for the
border, but he is unhappy with it, and
so now he is going to declare an emer-
gency.
It raises two important questions.
Can a President just declare an emer-
gency every time he is unhappy that
Congress doesn’t accept his budgetary
proposals? Second, can the President
use the declaration of a nonmilitary
emergency to just tap a spigot into the
Pentagon’s budget? That is exactly
what President Trump is trying to do
in this case.
The President has declared an emer-
gency that all agree is a nonmilitary
emergency. The President said: I want
to take $6.1 billion from the Pentagon’s
budget to deal with this emergency.
He wants to take $3.6 billion from
military construction. Military con-
struction are the funds we use to build
facilities on our military bases across
the United States and across the world
or to rebuild facilities, like the airbase
at Tyndall or the big sections of Camp
Lejeune that were hit in hurricanes
last year. That is what the MILCON
budget is supposed to do.
This morning, I toured Fort Belvoir
to visit with Army families living at
Fort Belvoir in Fairfax County, VA.
They shared with me atrocious stories
about the condition of the housing
they are living in. These are atrocious
stories of rodent infestation, black
mold, lead, and asbestos. I drove by one
military house at Fort Belvoir that
had a big warning sign on the door:
‘‘Poison.’’ You could not enter it be-
cause of efforts at asbestos and lead re-
mediation.
The families told me about the poor
physical conditions of their properties.
They told me about the fact that they
couldn’t get a response when they were
trying to get help. Then they told me,
tragically, about the illnesses of their
children, hospitalizations, and having
to move out of their homes and apart-
ments. One mother of a 10-year-old
talked about the fact that her 10-year-
old daughter, because of mold in her
military housing unit, missed 45 days
of school in the last school year. Her
daughter had to be absent for a quarter
of the school year because of the poor
physical conditions of military hous-
ing.
The MILCON budget is there to deal
with issues like these. Yet the Presi-
dent wants to take $3.6 billion out of
the MILCON budget. The President
wants to take $2.5 billion out of the
drug-interdiction budget within the
Department of Defense. Press reports
suggest that account only has about
$85 million available, so what they
would need to do is cannibalize other
accounts to fill up that account to $2.5
billion to then take out. Those are the
important funds—military construc-
tion and drug interdiction—the Presi-
dent is proposing to raid.
I think it is important to notice this:
The President’s emergency declaration
is not just about tapping the budget
this year for $6.1 billion. Earlier today,
in an Armed Services hearing, I asked
Secretary Shanahan: Doesn’t this
emergency declaration last until the
President declares it is over? If we
don’t rebut the emergency, it will not
just be fiscal year 2019; it will be fiscal
year 2020 or 2021 and beyond. It will en-
able the President to tap a spigot into
the MILCON budget and draw out mon-
eys this year, next year, and in future
years. So it is $6.1 billion that he is
asking for this year, but unless Con-
gress asserts its article I power to say,
no, we are the appropriators, we will
basically be allowing the President to
tap into this fund in perpetuity, there-
by affecting important military con-
struction priorities that would be good
for the military families and our Na-
tion’s defense.
Which military construction projects
might be compromised by the Presi-
dent’s use of this $6.1 billion?
When the President declared the
emergency, I wrote a letter to Sec-
retary Shanahan on February 15 and
asked: Can you give us a list of the
projects that will be compromised by
this $6.1 billion raid on the Pentagon’s
budget? I have not received a response.
That was 27 days ago.
This morning, before the committee,
Secretary Shanahan was asked: Why
haven’t we received a list? If the Presi-
dent wants to take $6.1 billion out of
the Pentagon’s budget, give us a list of
the potential projects that could be af-
fected.
I wrote a letter on the 15th, and staff-
ers have been reaching out to the Pen-
tagon. If you do not know precisely the
projects, give us the universe—all un-
obligated MILCON projects on your
priority list that could possibly be af-
fected. Today, after not responding to
the requests, Secretary Shanahan said
that he will send us a list at the end of
the day: I will send you a list, basi-
cally, after you vote this afternoon.
The vote that we will be casting this
afternoon is about whether the Presi-
dent should be able to raid the Penta-
gon’s budget for $6.1 billion. For a
month, we have been asking what
projects might be affected, and they
are now proposing to give us an answer
to the question after the vote. They
have had the list since the very day we
asked them. They keep a list every day
about unobligated MILCON projects,
but the service secretaries are not al-
lowed to share those lists with Con-
gress until the Secretary of Defense al-
lows them to, and he is going to allow
us to see it today.
Everybody is voting to cannibalize
the Pentagon’s budget to the tune of
$6.1 billion. All of the Senators should
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.024 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1872 March 14, 2019
be interested in what projects might be
affected in their own States that are
necessary to the Nation’s defense be-
fore they vote to give the President
this power.
In conclusion, I hope, today, we will
stand up against the President’s power
grab. We shouldn’t let the President
tap a spigot into the Pentagon’s budget
to deal with an emergency that all
have agreed is a nonmilitary emer-
gency. We shouldn’t let him tap a spig-
ot that is not just for this budgetary
year but for future fiscal years, as well,
which is the effect of the vote today.
We are the article I branch, and
under that section of the Constitution,
we set the spending priorities. Because
he is unhappy with our work product,
the President should not be able to
overturn the spending priorities that
we have established in our appropria-
tions bills and raid the Pentagon’s
budget without telling us where the
moneys will come from.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The Senator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise to
talk a little bit about the emergency
declaration by the President. It is a
bad idea. I think everybody in this
body knows it is a bad idea, and we will
see how many people will vote to over-
ride that bad idea. It is a bad idea for
a number of reasons.
The President says it is for this coun-
try’s safety, but he is robbing from our
military to build a wall on the south-
ern border. Yet, I might add, most of
the money that we allocated in the last
fiscal year is still there—$1.3 billion—
plus the $1.375 billion that was author-
ized by the conference committee,
made up of a group of Democrats and
Republicans from the House and the
Senate, which means it was passed by
both bodies. It was money that he re-
ceived but to which he said ‘‘I don’t
like it’’ and declared an emergency
declaration.
Look, Montana is no stranger to
military service. We are home to the
second-most veterans per capita of any
State in the country. Every time our
Nation is in need, Montanans step up
to the plate and answer the call to
serve. That is why, today, I rise to
fight back against the President’s dec-
laration, for it will be shortchanging
our troops in favor of a campaign
promise to build a wall that he said
Mexico would pay for.
The President’s plan to raid our mili-
tary resources would directly hurt
Montana’s military community and its
men and women in uniform. The heart
of the Air Force’s Global Strike Com-
mand is located in Great Falls, MT, at
Malmstrom Air Force Base. The 341st
Missile Wing at Malmstrom is a crit-
ical component of our Nation’s nuclear
triad. It is our great deterrent against
adversaries who would do us harm. As
President Kennedy said, it is our ace in
the hole.
Over the past few years, I have been
fighting to secure the military con-
struction dollars on the Appropriations
Committee to meet the needs of the
Malmstrom Air Force Base. I led a bi-
partisan effort to deliver more than $19
million to construct a new Tactical Re-
sponse Force Alert Facility. That facil-
ity was a top priority for Malmstrom
because the current facility is old,
laden with asbestos and lead-based
paint, and this has complicated efforts
to secure the base’s missile sites.
I also helped to secure some $14.6 mil-
lion for the construction of a missile
maintenance dispatch facility. This fa-
cility will allow the base to more prop-
erly and efficiently store critical com-
ponents and equipment for the missile
field and to retrofit its hangar so we
can ultimately house the replacement
fleet for its Vietnam-era Hueys, which
should be replaced in the next couple of
years. Unfortunately, the construction
of these facilities and of many others
around the country is at risk because
of the President’s decision.
More alarmingly, Malmstrom is in
critical need of a weapons generation
facility, and I have been fighting for
years to ensure that this project is in-
cluded among the Air Force’s top mili-
tary construction priorities. Just yes-
terday, the Secretary of the Air Force
confirmed that the funding for the fa-
cility has been included in the fiscal
year 2020 Air Force budget request.
This investment represents a signifi-
cant step forward for Malmstrom Air
Force Base, for the Air Force, and for
our national security. It is important
because this is where ICBM warheads
are maintained and stored.
As a result of the deterioration of
this facility, airmen and missileers
must confront numerous safety and se-
curity challenges while carrying out
their missions every day. Yet now we
have to tell them that this critical
project, which the Air Force has said it
desperately needs and which it does
desperately need, could very well get
kicked down the road and down the list
of priorities because the President
would rather spend billions of the mili-
tary construction money on the con-
struction of his wall.
The same is true for other critical in-
frastructure investments at
Malmstrom, including a new security
forces compound, but the President
doesn’t care. He is more interested in
robbing taxpayer funds to build an un-
necessary wall on the southern border,
but Congress has rejected the Presi-
dent’s request on a bipartisan basis.
His defiance of that rejection comes at
the expense of my State’s defense in-
stallations.
Great Falls is also home to the Mon-
tana Air National Guard. My older
brother was in the Air Guard for 35
years, and I have seen their work up
close. Since we entered the Middle East
conflict 17 years ago, this country has
used the Guard like never before. They
have asked a lot of our citizen soldiers
and airmen, and they have always de-
livered whether that be when they were
deploying to war, fighting against
wildfires, or saving families from nat-
ural disasters.
In Montana, they have asked for lit-
tle in return. They have asked for the
construction of a new aircraft apron to
park and store the Guard’s C–130 fleet.
Once again, we got to work, and we se-
cured the money—$9 million—to make
sure that our C–130s would stay in good
shape for years to come. Max Baucus
and I fought hard to bring those C–130s
to Montana, which is why I am so out-
raged that the President’s emergency
declaration puts this funding at risk. I
know that nobody in this body takes
the decision of sending young men and
women to war lightly, but when those
difficult decisions are made, we had
better deploy them with the best and
the safest equipment.
The debate today is clear: A vote
against the President’s disaster dec-
laration is a vote to protect our co-
equal branches of government, our sys-
tem of checks and balances, and our
Constitution. A vote for the Presi-
dent’s power grab is a vote for Federal
overreach and is a violation of our oath
of office.
I hope my colleagues who vote for
this plan are on the first plane back
home to explain to their constituents
why they are shirking their basic du-
ties. I hope they explain to their com-
munities—and there are many like
Great Falls, MT—why they are ripping
those investments out of their towns
and out of our military. I hope they ex-
plain to our future leaders why it is OK
to follow the Constitution only when it
is expedient.
This disaster declaration undermines
the bipartisan work that the Repub-
licans and Democrats have done to re-
build our military. It sets a dangerous
precedent that, no doubt, will be
abused by future Presidents, and every-
body in this body knows that.
We have an option here. We have the
ability to stand with our troops and to
stand with the Constitution and reject
this declaration. It is critically impor-
tant if we are going to have a strong
military. I think we decided in the last
Congress to make investments into our
military that were much needed, and
now the President is pulling those dol-
lars out. It is nothing short of ridicu-
lous.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
GM CLOSURES
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I concur
with the comments of my friend from
Montana. I know what this President
wants to potentially do to the Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base and to the
air bases in Springfield, in my home-
town of Mansfield, in Youngstown, and
in Toledo in my State and so much
more.
Last week, we got yet another clear
illustration of whose side President
Trump is on. All week, we got news of
favor after favor from the Trump ad-
ministration in what it is doing for
Wall Street. The White House looks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.026 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1873
March 14, 2019
like a retreat for Wall Street execu-
tives except on the days it looks like a
retreat for drug company executives.
Wall Street banks have complained
to the President about the Volcker
rule. That is the rule that stops the big
banks from taking big risks with
American families’ money. Wall Street
didn’t like it, but it had passed this
Congress a decade ago. The rules were
being written far too slowly because of
Wall Street’s influence even during the
Obama years, but because Wall Street
didn’t like it, the Trump administra-
tion agreed to rewrite them. The Wall
Street banks complained that even the
rewrite was not weak enough, so the
administration reportedly is going to
water it down even further.
Secretary Mnuchin, the Secretary of
the Treasury—another Wall Street guy
who was appointed by this President—
announced he is going to go easier on
shadow banks, and the Fed announced
it would make it easier for big banks to
pass the annual stress test. It is like
this body and Senator MCCONNELL, who
is down the hall, have forgotten what
happened 10 years ago. It is this collec-
tive amnesia that has worked its virus
through this body and through the ad-
ministration so that people forget what
happened 10 years ago with regard to
our economy.
My wife and I live in Cleveland, OH—
ZIP Code 44105. In the first half of 2007,
that ZIP Code had more foreclosures
than any ZIP Code in the United
States. I see what happens when people
lose their homes. I think about what
happens to families who have to ex-
plain it to their children, who have to
give away their pets, who have to move
to new school districts—all the things
that happen to families when their
homes are foreclosed on or when they
are evicted from their apartments. Yet
none of these executives seem to mind.
None of these executives have to have
those conversations. Nobody in the
Trump administration has to have
those conversations with one’s kids.
The Trump administration is weak-
ening the stress test. It is weakening
some of the capital. It is simply doing
Wall Street’s bidding over and over—
and that was just last week. Of course,
we know that comes after 2 years of
this President’s and this Congress’s
doing Wall Street’s bidding.
To me, the one what was even more
personal was how this administration
decided to weaken the overtime rule.
Here is how it works. If somebody is
making $40,000 a year and is working as
a night manager at a restaurant, say,
or at any kind of job in which one may
manage a few people and is making
$35,000 or $40,000 or $45,000 a year, if the
top people of the company give this
gentleman or gentlewoman who is
doing this job the title of management,
then they don’t have to pay him or her
overtime.
They can work them 45, they can
work them 50, they can work them 60
hours a week and pay them not a dime
of overtime—nothing. They get a sal-
ary for 40 hours.
So you take a worker, you pay that
worker $45,000 a year, $40,000 a year,
the owners of the company classify
them as management, and they can
refuse to pay them for the extra 10 or
15 hours. That is 10 or 15 hours without
pay or it is 10 or 15 hours away from
family, away from raising your kids,
and the administration, of course,
sided with the companies. Of course,
they sided with Wall Street. Of course,
they betrayed workers. They never
ever side with workers.
Look at Youngstown, OH, right now.
This President stood by while General
Motors closed the Chevy Cruze plant. It
had been there 53 years—Lordstown,
OH, a valley of about 400,000 people.
This is 5,000 jobs. There are probably
another 4,000 to 5,000 jobs for people
who worked in the supply chain and
made components that go into the
Chevy Cruze. I asked the President per-
sonally—first, he didn’t even know
about the plant closing when I talked
to him, even though by that time they
had laid off about half of the workers.
Then I asked him face-to-face, and I
asked him on the phone to actually
call the CEO of GM to make an appeal
to say: Instead of using your huge tax
cut that you got from the White House
to build more jobs overseas and to do
stock buybacks so the executives are
getting richer, how about investing in
this General Motors plant, how about
retooling, which this company has
done many times in the past?
I remember one of the best days,
other than the birth of six of my grand-
children during my last term in the
Senate, during that several years—I re-
member the best day of that last term
was when President Obama, Secretary
of Labor Perez, and I stood together in
Columbus, OH, at Jeni’s ice cream, and
we announced that the Obama adminis-
tration was going to update that salary
threshold on the overtime rule. If you
work extra hours, you get extra pay,
you get time and a half under the law—
under the law the way that President
Obama did it.
The Obama rule would have meant
that more than 4 million Americans—
130,000 people just in my State, 130,000
people, if they work 10 hours, they get
hundreds of dollars in overtime pay. If
they are working 50 hours instead of 40,
they literally would get—depending on
their wage, of course—at least another
$100 in their pay.
Now, because of Trump and the Sec-
retary of Labor in this administra-
tion—first because of some judges and
now the President—those workers
never got that raise.
Attorneys general around the coun-
try, Republican, far-right attorneys
general, including one in the Presiding
Officer’s State, are always glad to do
the bidding of their corporate sponsors.
They are always glad to do the bidding
of billionaires. They are always glad to
do the bidding of the richest 1 percent
in this country. They blocked it.
Now President Trump has come up
with a new rule that leaves most of
those workers behind.
Again, these aren’t rich executives
who are working. I am sure the Pre-
siding Officer, the Senator from Texas,
most of us work well over 40 hours in
these jobs. We get paid a salary; it is a
good salary. We shouldn’t get paid
overtime; neither should a corporate
lawyer who is working more than 40
hours overtime, and neither should an
executive nor should a doctor who
works more than 40 hours get over-
time. But these are workers who are
making $30,000 and $35,000 and $40,000 a
year, and you classify them as manage-
ment, so you refuse to pay them over-
time. That is what this rule is about. It
means that millions of ordinary work-
ers are not getting the pay they have
earned.
As if the richest 1 percent aren’t
doing well enough without this rule,
President Trump again—President
Trump again—betrayed workers. Again
he stood with the billionaires. Again he
stood with the largest corporations
that ship jobs overseas.
It comes down to whose side you are
on. Are you on Wall Street’s side? Are
you on the side of Senator MCCONNELL,
who responds to every special interest
in this country that wants something
from this Senate? Are you on their side
or are you going to be on the side of
the American workers?
This President came to Youngstown.
He promised to fight for American
workers. He breaks that promise damn
near every single day. He breaks it
over and over and over.
If you love this country, you fight for
the people who make it work. I wish
President Trump would understand
that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
H.J. RES. 46
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am
here to talk about the vote that we
will take later today on this floor re-
garding the President’s national emer-
gency declaration.
From the outset of this process, I
have had two objectives. One is to sup-
port the President on the crisis at the
border. I believe his plan to address
that crisis is a good one, and we should
support it. But, second is to do it in the
right way, without setting a dangerous
new precedent counter to a funda-
mental constitutional principle, with-
out tying up the needed funds for the
border in the courts, and without tak-
ing funds away from important mili-
tary construction projects for our
troops.
Unfortunately, despite a sincere ef-
fort by the administration as recently
as this morning to try to work with me
and other colleagues, including the
Presiding Officer, we were not able to
agree on a path forward that addresses
those concerns that I just outlined.
I am going to lay out in a minute
how I think we can better achieve the
President’s goals of strengthening our
border security without invoking the
national emergency and the funding he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.028 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1874 March 14, 2019
seeks through that national emer-
gency.
First, let me repeat what I have said
on this floor many times and said con-
sistently: I do believe we have a crisis
at the border—a humanitarian crisis, a
trafficking crisis, a drug crisis. Accord-
ing to Customs and Border Protection,
in February—last month—76,000 illegal
immigrants arrived at our southern
border. That is an average of about
2,000 every day. Since October of last
year, we have apprehended more than
268,000 people at the border. That is
about a 100-percent increase over the
same period last year. We have also
seen a 300-percent increase in families
arriving at the border compared to this
time last year. By the way, the vast
majority of those are from three coun-
tries in Central America.
This is a humanitarian crisis. The
journey to the United States from
these so-called Northern Triangle
countries is incredibly dangerous, espe-
cially for women and for children. They
face violence from gangs and traf-
fickers and hunger and dehydration in
the rough terrain. Many of them arrive
at our border traumatized, hurt, sick,
and often we don’t have the resources
to provide for those needs.
There is also a growing human traf-
ficking crisis. Our lack of border secu-
rity allows these smugglers—human
smugglers—to move across the border
unchecked. Increasingly, they are tak-
ing advantage of these flows of individ-
uals to traffic women and children.
In particular, I will say the Border
Patrol resources are spread thin trying
to monitor these areas that do not
have barriers.
Third, this is a drug crisis. The Drug
Enforcement Agency has said that the
southwest border ‘‘remains the pri-
mary entry point for heroin into the
United States.’’ That is not a debatable
point. I am told that with regard to
Ohio, where we have been devastated
by the opioid epidemic, over 90 percent
of the heroin is coming across the
southern border.
Fentanyl, the deadliest drug of all,
which comes primarily from China and
primarily through the U.S. mail sys-
tem—50 times more powerful than her-
oin—is increasingly coming across the
southern border too. Yesterday I
learned from Customs and Border Pro-
tection that fentanyl seizures along
the border between the ports of entry
have increased by 400 percent between
2016 and 2018.
As we are finally beginning to make
progress on the opioid crisis in my
home State of Ohio and around the
country, finally reducing the number
of heroin and other opioid overdose
deaths for the first time in 8 years, we
are seeing a reduction in those deaths,
but crystal meth and the devastation it
causes is coming back—coming back
with a vengeance. It is more pure than
ever, more powerful than ever, and it is
coming from Mexico.
Some of you may remember in your
own communities the issue of crystal
meth labs being in people’s houses and
the environmental damage it caused
and the crystal meth being cooked.
That is not happening much anymore.
Why? Because the pure crystal meth
from Mexico is so much more powerful
and less expensive; it is cheap.
Law enforcement tells me that on
the streets of Columbus, OH, pure crys-
tal meth is now plentiful and less ex-
pensive than marijuana—and far more
dangerous. Where is this coming from?
It is coming from Mexico.
Even with limited resources, in fiscal
year 2018, Customs and Border Protec-
tion seized almost a half million
pounds of marijuana and 11,000 pounds
of methamphetamine between ports of
entry. At the ports of entry, they
seized over 1,700 pounds of fentanyl—by
the way, that is enough to kill about 3
billion people—1,700 pounds of fentanyl,
three flecks of which can kill you,
56,000 pounds of meth, and nearly 52,000
pounds of cocaine.
Frankly, that is the tip of the ice-
berg. Most of it is getting through.
They are checking only a small per-
centage of shipments, meaning the vast
majority of drugs are coming across
our borders undetected. We need to do
more.
There is no question we need strong-
er border security. Again, I support the
plan the President has outlined, includ-
ing the $5.7 billion the President has
requested for walls and other barriers.
That $5.7 billion number, by the way,
wasn’t just picked out of thin air. It
funds the top 10 priorities of the Cus-
toms and Border Protection Border Se-
curity Improvement Plan. The experts
have given us a plan, and the Presi-
dent’s $5.7 billion simply funds what
the experts have said.
This plan, by the way, the expert’s
border security plan, has been em-
braced by this Congress in the last two
appropriations bills. They pointed to
that plan and said: This is the path for-
ward. These are the experts. It is not
controversial.
By the way, the experts have rec-
ommended not that we build a wall
from sea to shining sea—it has been
mischaracterized as that—but 234 miles
of barriers, walls, and other fencing at
places where people cross the border
most frequently, primarily in the State
of Texas, primarily in the urban
areas—places where it will make the
most difference.
Funding for these types of barriers
has been included in the budget re-
quests from previous administrations,
of course. Previous administrations
have built hundreds of miles of fenc-
ing—over 500 miles.
It has also been included in appro-
priations bills passed by Congress dur-
ing the last two appropriation cycles
by both Republicans and Democrats.
Why is it that this administration
can’t build the barriers that other ad-
ministrations have and that Congress
in the past has supported?
Of course it is not just about more
physical barriers, and the President’s
plan also recognizes that. It calls for
more Border Patrol agents, more tech-
nology, more surveillance, more
drones, more cameras, more screening
at our ports of entry, more technology
to stop this illegal flow of drugs. That
is also a significant part of the plan.
But erecting more barriers and fenc-
ing in key areas along the border will
help stem the tide. It will ease the bur-
den on our Border Security personnel
and allow them to focus their resources
more effectively.
It is time to listen to the experts and
give them what they need to carry out
their important mission, but we have
to do that in the right way.
As we all learned in high school, our
government has a system of checks and
balances. It gives some powers to the
President; it gives some powers to Con-
gress. Our Constitution explicitly gives
the U.S. Congress what is called the
power of the purse.
Congress, not the President, has the
sole authority to determine how to
spend taxpayer money, and that is ap-
propriate. After all, we are here to rep-
resent the people. We are most ac-
countable to the taxpayers. Once we
appropriate the money for a specific
purpose, then it is the President and
the executive branch that are respon-
sible for administering those programs.
We had our spending fight here in
Congress. I thought we should give the
President the full amount of money he
requested for barriers, and I voted that
way. At the end of the day, Congress
decided to give him only some, not all,
of the funds he requested.
Under current law and current con-
gressional approval and authorities,
without declaring a national emer-
gency, President Trump can actually
access additional funds that get him to
the $5.7 billion he requested. As the
Wall Street Journal said in a recent
editorial opposing a national emer-
gency, ‘‘The President doesn’t need to
invoke a national emergency to build
his wall along the southern border.’’
Declaring a national emergency to
access different funds sets a dangerous
new precedent. The use of national
emergency powers to circumvent
Congress’s explicit decision on funding
is unprecedented. No President has
ever used what is called the National
Emergencies Act in this way. As a re-
sult, it opens the door for future Presi-
dents to implement just about any pol-
icy they want and to take funding from
other areas Congress has already de-
cided on without Congress’s approval.
Once a President declares an emer-
gency, he or she has access to a lot of
power. Some would say nearly unlim-
ited power. A future President could
seize industries or could control means
of communication. Think of the inter-
net. A future President may well say
that climate change is a national
emergency and use emergency authori-
ties to implement the Green New Deal.
By the way, according to a new study
by Douglas Holtz-Eakin at the Amer-
ican Action Forum, the proposed poli-
cies in the Green New Deal would cost
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.030 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1875
March 14, 2019
between $51 trillion and $93 trillion
over the next 10 years when added up
together. Obviously, that is not sus-
tainable. It is an astounding price tag.
In fact, as Senator ALEXANDER said on
the floor earlier today, future Presi-
dents could actually use this emer-
gency authority to tear down the very
wall we are now constructing, and
some Democrats running for President
have said that is what they intend to
do. That is what they want to do.
The President is using the National
Emergencies Act to take funds away
from a particular area of spending. It is
called military construction funds.
Only twice before have Presidents de-
clared a national emergency in order to
transfer military construction funds
away from congressionally designated
projects into other priorities. In both
of those situations, we were at war, and
the Secretary of Defense transferred
the funds to support the war effort, and
Congress did not object. Although
there is a crisis at our southern border,
we are not in wartime, and there are
funds available to address border secu-
rity.
The President wants to do more to
address the crisis at the border, and I
do, too, and he can do more. The Presi-
dent has available to him enough
funds, right now, to begin building all
the barriers he has requested without
resorting to national emergency funds.
I support his using those funds to get
to the full $5.7 billion he requested for
barriers on the southern border.
Here is how we could access it with-
out using the national emergency.
First would be the $1.375 billion appro-
priated by this Congress for the bar-
riers. By the way, that is the most that
has ever been appropriated in a fiscal
year, ever, for the purpose of barriers.
Second, he can access, as he intends to
do, $601 million from the Treasury For-
feiture Fund. He could do that without
a national emergency. Third, he could
access funding through the DOD
counter-drug account. He has said that
he would like to access about $2.5 bil-
lion from that account, but he could
actually access, under our laws that we
have passed here—and we have given
him authority to access—up to $4 bil-
lion. This adds up, as we can see, to
over $5.7 billion—almost $6 billion—
which is at the President’s disposal
without moving to the national emer-
gency that he has invoked. My hope is
that the President will take this ap-
proach.
I think using those funds is a better
way to accomplish our border security
goals. Precisely because the President
does not need to declare a national
emergency, these funds are far more
certain. The $3.6 billion the President
takes from the military construction
projects is uncertain because these
funds are likely to be tied up in con-
stitutional litigation for months, prob-
ably years. By the way, the President
has rightly acknowledged that.
Under the National Emergencies Act,
Congress has given the President flexi-
bility to address significant threats to
our Nation’s well-being, and we want
him to have that flexibility. It was
critical for President Bush to act
quickly and decisively in the days after
the 9/11 attacks. But short of that type
of situation, it is imperative for the
President to honor Congress’s constitu-
tional role to make policy and appro-
priate money. A national emergency
declaration is a tool to be used cau-
tiously and sparingly. That is why I co-
sponsored legislation, authored by Sen-
ator MIKE LEE, to amend the National
Emergencies Act to ensure that Con-
gress does have more control over
these decisions in the future.
So in my view, the best resolution
here is for the President to use that
nearly $6 billion in funding that he has
at his disposal to implement his plan,
and, then, ask Congress for additional
funding during the next appropriations
cycle, which, by the way, begins on Oc-
tober 1 of this year.
This approach, again, has three dis-
tinct advantages. One, it would not set
the dangerous precedent we discussed
today. Second, the funds could actually
get to the border because they will not
be tied up in litigation. Third, it would
fully protect important military con-
struction projects in Ohio and around
the country—including, by the way,
funding for the National Air and Space
Intelligence Center, or NASIC, at the
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base; an
automated, multipurpose machine gun
range at Camp James A. Garfield; a fire
station replacement at Mansfield
Lahm Airport; a small arms range at
Rickenbacker International Airport,
and a main gate relocation project at
Youngstown Air Reserve Station. All
of those are things in the current fiscal
year Military Construction appropria-
tions bill that benefit Ohio. I am a
strong supporter and advocate for
Ohio’s military facilities and our re-
search institutions, and I will continue
to work to ensure that our key mili-
tary construction projects at these
strategic facilities can continue to
move forward.
I have worked on both ends of Penn-
sylvania Avenue. I have had the honor
of being a Senator and a Congressman
on this side, and I have worked for two
White Houses. In fact, I was Associate
Counsel to President Bush 41 in his
White House Counsel’s office. I know
how hard it can be for the executive
branch, the President, and Congress to
find the balance that our Founders in-
tended between the executive branch
and the legislative branch, but our
Founders drew a clear line on at least
one thing: Congress, closest to the peo-
ple, would have the power of the purse.
When President Obama bypassed
Congress and took executive action to
create new immigration policy back in
2012, I spoke out. I criticized him be-
cause of the constitutionality issue. I
said I agreed with President Obama
that our immigration system was—
and, by the way, still is—broken. I
agreed we needed to work together to
fix it, but, I said that it doesn’t mean
that a President can ignore Congress,
substitute his own judgment for the
will of the people, and make up new
laws on his own. That is what I said
President Obama did. I believed it was
wrong then.
I believe the President’s use of the
national emergency declaration to ac-
cess already approved military con-
struction project funding is wrong now.
I support his goals. President Trump is
right that we have a crisis, and I sup-
port his plans to secure the border, and
he can fully fund it in a more reliable
way. By the way, anyone who cares
about getting that money to the border
to build walls ought to want that cer-
tainty.
Each one of us in this body has sworn
an oath to support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States. So
today I will vote to support the dis-
approval resolution that is before us.
I know the President has the votes to
pursue his approach. Even if the dis-
approval resolution passes, he can veto
it, and his veto will be sustained. I
know that, but I continue to hope that
the President uses the funds he has
available to him without creating a
bad precedent, having some of the
needed funds tied up in the courts, and
taking money from important military
projects.
President Trump is right about the
crisis at the border, and the approach I
outlined today would enable him to ac-
complish his policy objectives on the
border and honor our Constitution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise in
strong opposition to President Trump’s
so-called emergency declaration of a
crisis and invasion on our southern
border, an attempt to misappropriate
funds to build the President’s border
wall. The President’s actions here are
an affront to the constitutional separa-
tion of powers, our checks and bal-
ances, and the congressional power of
the purse to set appropriation levels.
The very nature of how President
Trump decided, finally, to declare a so-
called emergency at our southern bor-
der shows that he, too, knows that
there is no real national emergency at
our southern border. President Trump
himself admitted, in announcing this
so-called emergency in the Rose Gar-
den:
I could do the wall over a longer period of
time. I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather
do it much faster.
It doesn’t sound like a national emer-
gency. We know that a medieval border
wall would be a tremendously wasteful
expenditure of resources, as opposed to
smarter border security technology
that would enhance screening at our
ports of entry and specifically target
transnational criminal operations
smuggling contraband into the United
States.
The Constitution gives Congress, not
the President, the power of the purse.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.032 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1876 March 14, 2019
Article I, section 9, clause 7 provides
that ‘‘No Money shall be drawn from
the Treasury but in Consequence of Ap-
propriations made by Law.’’
Article I, section 8, clause 1 provides
that ‘‘the Congress shall have Power
To . . . provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
Additionally, the presentment clause
of the Constitution requires that the
President either approve or veto a bill,
and it does not give him the power to
change the text of a law or appropria-
tion levels or to cast a line item veto
for certain provisions.
The Supreme Court held in the line-
item veto case of ‘‘Clinton v. City of
New York’’ in 1998:
There is no provision in the Constitution
that authorizes the President to enact, to
amend or to repeal statutes. . . . Our first
President understood the text of the Pre-
sentment Clause as requiring that he either
‘‘approve all the parts of a bill, or reject it in
toto.’’
The courts have regularly upheld the
authority of Congress by statute—and
not the President by fiat—to set fund-
ing levels. As the Supreme Court said
in Hooe v. United States, in 1910, ‘‘it is
for Congress, proceeding under the
Constitution, to say what amount may
be drawn from the Treasury in pursuit
of appropriations.’’
The Ninth Circuit held in United
States v. McIntosh, in 2016, that if the
executive branch spends money in vio-
lation of appropriations law, ‘‘it would
be drawing funds from the Treasury
without authorization by statute, and
thus violating the Appropriations
Clause.’’
The Supreme Court held in the Office
of Personnel Management v. Rich-
mond, in 1990, that ‘‘any exercise of a
power granted by the Constitution to
one or the other branches of Govern-
ment is limited by the valid reserva-
tion of congressional control over
funds in the Treasury.’’
Beyond the legal challenges in court
to the President’s emergency declara-
tion, Congress has a responsibility to
act, as well, and rein in the President’s
abuse of power in order to maintain the
proper separation of powers and checks
and balances under our Constitution.
Former Republican Members of Con-
gress recently wrote a powerful open
letter to the current Republican Mem-
bers of Congress on this issue. Signato-
ries include former Members John Dan-
forth, Mickey Edwards, Chuck Hagel,
Jim Kolbe, Olympia Snowe, and Rich-
ard Lugar. Let me quote:
Our oath is to put the country and its Con-
stitution above everything, including party
politics or loyalty to a president. . . . That
is why we are coming together to urge those
of you who are now charged with upholding
the authority of the first branch of govern-
ment to resist efforts to surrender those
powers to a president.
We offer two arguments against allowing a
president—any president, regardless of
party—to circumvent congressional author-
ity. One is the constitutional placing of all
lawmaking power in the hands of the peo-
ple’s representatives. . . . The power of the
purse rests with Congress. . . . If you allow a
president to ignore Congress, it will be not
your authority but that of your constituents
that is deprived of the protections of true
representative government.
Let me just add that, in addition to
what was said in that letter, we have
made appropriations here. We expect
those appropriations to be carried out.
We are the representatives of the peo-
ple. In my own State of Maryland, we
have many military construction con-
tracts on many of the military instal-
lations that could be put at jeopardy.
Maryland is the proud home of major
military installations, including Pax
River, Indian Head, Andrews, Fort
Detrick, Fort Meade, and the APG, or
the Aberdeen Proving Ground. It is our
responsibility to make those appropria-
tions. If you let this emergency power
go, that action could be compromised
by the President of the United States,
denying the people of this country
their representative government.
Let me continue the letter from our
former Republican colleagues. The let-
ter continues:
The second argument goes directly to the
question each of you must face: how much
are you willing to undermine both the Con-
stitution and the Congress in order to ad-
vance a policy outcome that by all legiti-
mate means is not achievable? The current
issue—a wall on our southern border—has
gone through the process put in place by the
Constitution. It has been proposed by the
President, it has been debated by Congress,
and the representatives of the people allo-
cated funding at a level deemed appropriate
by Congress. We understand that there are
many Members of Congress who disagree
with the final funding compromise reached
by a bipartisan group of legislators.
And it was approved overwhelmingly
by Congress.
To you, we ask this question: what will
you do when a president of another party
uses the precedent you are establishing to
impose policies to which you are unalterably
opposed? There is no way around this dif-
ficulty: what powers are ceded to a president
whose policies you support may also be used
by presidents whose policies you abhor.
The letter then concludes:
We who have served where you serve now
call on you to honor your oath of office and
to protect the Constitution and the respon-
sibilities it vested in Congress. We ask that
you pass a joint resolution terminating the
emergency declared by the President on Feb-
ruary 15, 2019.
Congress should therefore take all
necessary action to overturn this un-
lawful Presidential declaration on bor-
der security under the National Emer-
gencies Act or other authorities. In-
stead of trying to raid funds that have
been designated for critical military
construction and environmental
projects, the President should work
with Congress to enact comprehensive
reform.
The Senate should vote to uphold the
Constitution and its legislative prerog-
atives, including the power of the
purse, and to cancel the President’s
emergency declaration.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, dur-
ing the recent government shutdown,
there were a lot of budget issues that
were negotiated. It was a wide-ranging
bill of over 1,000 pages, when it was all
said and done, but the most conten-
tious number in all of the negotiations
circled around a barrier on our south-
ern border in the highest drug traf-
ficking corridor in the country.
The President requested $5.7 billion
to build a barrier fence in 10 locations
that the Customs and Border Patrol
had identified as the top 10 points of il-
legal drugs entering our country. That
study had been requested by Congress
before they fulfilled that study of iden-
tifying the highest profiled drug traf-
ficking corridors. They brought that
back to Congress. The President then
requested funding to build fencing in
those areas of the highest trafficking
areas.
His request was not for a 2,000-mile-
long wall. It was only to replace some
of the sections of the 650-mile-long bar-
rier that already exists—areas that
were old and ineffective—or to put new
fencing in high drug trafficking areas.
In a highly partisan debate, Congress
eventually appropriated $1.375 billion
to DHS for the construction of addi-
tional barriers. It is not even close to
what the President and what Customs
and Border Patrol said they needed to
protect the Nation and members of law
enforcement.
During those negotiations, the Presi-
dent announced he would declare a na-
tional emergency if he didn’t get the
funds needed to secure the Nation. At
that point, there were two options for
people who don’t want the President to
secure our border. One was to include
language in that appropriations bill be-
fore it was passed to prevent the Presi-
dent from declaring an emergency ac-
tion and using any of the funds for
that. The second one was to wait until
after the bill was passed and declare a
disapproval resolution to stop the
President after the bill had already
passed.
Those who oppose border security
chose the second option—to fight the
President after passage, which brings
us to today.
After signing the funding bill to re-
open the government, to deal with the
humanitarian crisis, and the flow of il-
legal narcotics coming into our coun-
try, the President declared a national
emergency in two areas. He has over
100 authorities; he declared it in two.
One was this. He wanted to replace
some of the National Guard members
with members of the Reserve. You have
to declare a national emergency to call
up the Reserve members. So his first
request was to call up some of the Re-
serves to swap out some of the Guard
members who were already serving at
the border.
The second one was that in one of the
accounts that deal with military con-
struction, if needed, he wanted to tap
into some of those funds. He was also
very clear. There are four accounts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.033 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1877
March 14, 2019
they would have access to. Three of
them don’t need an emergency declara-
tion. Let me run through those.
The first is the $1.375 billion Congress
allocated in the government shutdown,
ending debate. There is no question
that $1.375 billion has been approved by
Congress.
There is a second fund where there is
$600 million. It is in the Treasury Asset
Forfeiture Fund. That fund specifically
notes that those funds can be used for
any reason for Federal law enforce-
ment. It is very clear. It has wide dis-
cretion—any use for Federal law en-
forcement. There is no legal question
that it can be used by Customs and
Border Patrol or to do construction of
any kind of barrier.
There is a third fund that already ex-
ists within the Department of Defense.
There are $4 billion set aside in this
fund, and it can be used for wide-rang-
ing issues dealing with counter-
narcotics. There is no question the
President can act on anything dealing
with counternarcotics with that fund.
In fact, in that fund itself, there is
specific language already included in
that—and this is up to $4 billion—say-
ing it can be used for construction of
roads, fences, and installation of light-
ing to block drug smuggling corridors
across international boundaries of the
United States.
Let me run through this. There is up
to $4 billion the President can ask for
that he doesn’t have to ask for emer-
gency authority at all on. That is
counternarcotics, counterdrug smug-
gling. There are $600 million that have
been allocated that the President can
use because it deals with law enforce-
ment. There is $1.375 billion that Con-
gress also allocated. There is no legal
question on any of those.
At the tail end of that, the White
House has also said, after all three of
those funds are expended—which, by
the way, those three funds exceed the
$5.7 billion the President says he
needs—the President’s request is, if we
go through all of those, and we are not
able to close that section down, at
some future point, he wants to be able
to access this other fund.
They have also made it very clear it
would be past October. That would not
even be in this fiscal year. So really
the debate about funding is next year’s
issue, what is called the 2808 funding on
military construction.
That leads us again to this. An emer-
gency declaration really has two ques-
tions in it. Is it an emergency, and does
the President have statutory authority
to take this action? Those are the only
two questions on the table.
Is it an emergency is in dispute.
There are some folks who would say: I
don’t think what is going on at the bor-
der is an emergency. There are some
folks—some in this Chamber and some
in the other Chamber—who want to
abolish ICE, dismantle a wall, and open
the borders. Thankfully, that is a small
group of people who do not see our na-
tional security as important.
For the vast majority of people, they
do see an importance in Congress work-
ing on national security and securing
our borders. Then we have the argu-
ment about how serious is this.
I have had folks who have said to me:
It is really not that bad because we
have individuals coming but not as
high of a number as what it used to be.
Twenty years ago, we even had more
people crossing the border illegally.
That is not the question that is in
front of us. The request from Customs
and Border Patrol is specifically for
the 10 areas with the highest drug traf-
ficking along all of our southern bor-
der. That is the request.
The question is, Do we have an emer-
gency dealing with illegal drugs cross-
ing our border after the Customs and
Border Patrol has said to us that we
need barriers to slow down the flow of
illegal drugs? Are they right or are
they wrong?
Among those areas, right now the
Rio Grande Valley sector is the highest
area for movement of illegal drugs
crossing into our country. It is 16 per-
cent of the border miles, but it is 40
percent of the illegal border and illegal
drug trafficking coming in.
Last year, just in that one sector, 550
pounds of methamphetamine were
seized. This is not at the port of entry.
This is between ports of entry, in that
open area that doesn’t have a fence.
There were 550 pounds of methamphet-
amine seized. There were 1,500 pounds
of cocaine and 64,000 pounds of mari-
juana that were seized in that one sec-
tion without a fence.
The question is, Is that an emer-
gency?
Last year, 70,000 Americans died from
overdoses from drugs that came from
and through Mexico—70,000. If we had
any—any—issue in America where
70,000 people died, I can assure you this
Congress would stand up and say we
have an emergency, but, for some rea-
son, there is a dispute on whether it is
important we stop the flow of illegal
drugs coming from Mexico into the
United States. I don’t think that
should be in dispute.
To give an example of how fast this is
changing and how much of an emer-
gency this is, people would say: This
has been going on for years. Why is it
different now? Just in the last 2 years,
between ports of entry—again, not at
the ports of entry but in that open area
where there is no barrier. Last year,
our Customs and Border Patrol seized
388 pounds of fentanyl. That may not
sound like much, but only a couple of
grains of it—as in a couple of grains of
sand—is enough to kill a person.
Fentanyl is highly addictive and an
exceptionally powerful drug. It is 100
times more powerful than morphine. It
is being laced into heroin and laced
into cocaine. It is a mass killer.
Last year, almost 25,000 people in the
country died from an overdose of
fentanyl. Knowing it only takes two or
three grains to be too much to kill a
person, 388 pounds of it were seized be-
tween ports of entry along our border.
To tell you how it has accelerated, in
2 years, that is a 269-percent increase
of fentanyl being captured between
ports of entry.
Yes, we have an emergency. Yes, we
have people dying in this country due
to overdoses from fentanyl, heroin, co-
caine, and methamphetamine, and the
problem is not static. The problem is
accelerating.
Last year, we had one of the high-
est—highest—rates of cocaine being
picked up between ports of entry that
has ever existed in our country.
Last year, U.S. Customs and Border
Patrol seized a total of 11,000 pounds of
methamphetamine coming across that
border. That is the highest year ever of
that drug coming across our border.
Undeniably, there is an emergency.
The question is, Do we agree or dis-
agree that when the statute says a
President has the ability to do a con-
struction, it means he can also con-
struct a barrier? I believe it does.
We have those two questions. Is it an
emergency, and does the statutory au-
thority exist?
Interestingly enough, there are some
of my friends who are adding a third
question. Should the President have
that authority?
That is a different question, and I un-
derstand that question. Interestingly
enough, just a few hours ago, the Presi-
dent of the United States tweeted out—
as he is infamous for doing—if Congress
wants to discuss should a President
have this authority in the future, I am
open to discussing that, but that is not
pertaining to today.
I think that is an interesting ques-
tion we should address as a nation—
what and how broad should an Execu-
tive authority be for a President—but
the debate we have today is plain and
simple. Is it an emergency, and, under
current law, does the President have
statutory authority?
My answer to both of those questions
is yes.
I hope we continue to do drug inter-
diction, continue to work through the
issues that need to be addressed, con-
tinue to do recovery, and continue to
help people who are fighting through
addiction because we need a healthy
nation and also a secure Nation.
For those 10 areas that are the high-
est drug trafficking areas in the entire
country, I hope we close those doors,
and I hope we protect lives in the days
ahead.
I am going to choose to oppose a res-
olution of disapproval today that says
the President doesn’t have the author-
ity to protect the American people.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who
yields time?
If no one yields time, time will be
charged equally to both sides.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, significant,
the very first clause of the very first
section of the very first article of the
Constitution consists of the words ‘‘all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.034 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1878 March 14, 2019
legislative Powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United
States, which shall consist of a Senate
and the House of Representatives.’’
The Founding Fathers wasted no
time in getting right to the heart of
the matter, which is to say that the
legislative powers within the Federal
Government—that is, the power to
make law within that Federal system—
would themselves be exercised only by
the branch of that government most
accountable to the people at the most
regular routine intervals.
This system of government, of
course, involved three branches—one
that would make the law, one that
would enforce the law, and one that
would interpret the law. That system
of government relied, necessarily, and
quite appropriately, on the fact that
each branch of government would oper-
ate within its domain and would jeal-
ously guard the powers reserved to it,
neither exceeding the powers granted
it, nor accepting a diminution of those
powers.
It is with that topic in mind that I
rise today, reluctantly, in support of
the resolution before us. When I
speak—and some of my colleagues
might even say nag—about our con-
stitutional framework, when I insist
that every word, every clause, and
every principle does, in fact, matter,
that we take oaths to support and de-
fend the Constitution of the United
States—we do so, in fact, right here on
these very steps in this very Chamber
when we start each term of office—we
are dutybound to adhere both to the
letter and to the spirit of that docu-
ment, and we should do everything we
can to avoid straying from it.
When I say some of these things, I
am sometimes accused by some of na-
ivete. I am told the old ‘‘Schoolhouse
Rock’’ version of how a bill becomes a
law works in theory, sounds nice in
theory, but it is somehow passe in a
vast, diverse, continental nation in-
cluding about 230 million people today.
I am told that given the responsibil-
ities of the United States as now a
vast, global, and economic power and
Congress’s inability to get things done,
we have no choice but to accept and
even encourage a system of govern-
ment in which we are relegated to the
backseat, to the backseat of the very
things we were supposed to be doing in
the first place, which is passing law,
which is setting policy within the Fed-
eral Government.
This faux sophisticated analysis gets
things exactly backward. It is the ad-
vocates of Executive overreach and ju-
dicial supremacy who are naive. They
believe that given our Nation’s size and
diversity, only centralized government
can rise above partisan, ideological, re-
gional, practical differences, and unite
us behind one policy, but this function
now strangling this city and strangling
this body, toxifying our political dis-
course, is directly related to this re-
lentless march toward centralization.
We think, somehow, that by pulling
power into Washington and within
Washington to the less-accountable
branches of the government—that is,
to the other two branches that are not
this branch—we are governing. No,
that is not governing. It is ruling.
With centralization, we empower and
enrich the political and corporate
classes at the expense of the working
and middle classes. Centralization is
not unity. It is surrender—surrender to
exactly the kind of monarchical and
abusive sort of government our Found-
ing Fathers were trying to protect us
from.
Political elites often reassure us and
reassure each other that these devi-
ations from constitutional norms are
somehow victimless endeavors. No one
cares about the process, they insist,
but the Constitution is all process.
That is the whole point is process. The
Constitution doesn’t resolve our polit-
ical differences. It lays out the proc-
esses by which we are to resolve them.
Brushing that process aside does not
override our disagreement. It intensi-
fies them. It escalates them—
ratcheting up our politics into an all-
consuming war of outrage and con-
tempt.
My Democratic colleagues, some of
them, at least, would have us believe
this vote is about President Trump and
President Trump alone. It is not. It is
about much more than him. It is about
much more than them. It is liberal
elites’ cult-like zeal for centralized
power and their furious entitlement to
wielding it that has led us to this very
vote.
Now, I am not sure the Democratic
Party cares immensely, as an institu-
tion, about Presidential overreach. I
will leave that to them to decide and to
exhibit. Some simply believe that
abuse of constitutional power should be
a one-way street.
In many instances, we have had
Members of this body support previous
Presidents of both political parties in
engaging in acts of overreach. The real
source of outrage here is not constitu-
tionally mandated procedure but sim-
ply that we, as an institution, have
voluntarily surrendered—we have re-
linquished our legislative power.
In this instance, this happens to be
an exercise of power in an area in
which many on the other side of the
political aisle happen to disagree. To
make clear, a border fence—a border
barrier is a policy I support whole-
heartedly and unequivocally. I agree
with the need to secure our border. I
agree with the President that there is
a crisis unfolding on our border endan-
gering men and women and children
and endangering many of those who
were most affected by the communities
who are themselves in the direct path
of these caravans. I support a border
wall, and I encourage full congressional
funding for it.
I think it is a tragedy and really
something of an outrage that we
haven’t done that as a Congress. I sup-
port workplace enforcement of immi-
gration laws. I support a biometric
entry-exit system. I support the Presi-
dent’s new ‘‘Remain in Mexico’’ policy
that would keep asylum seekers south
of the border while they await proc-
essing if they come from a noncontig-
uous country. I support the President’s
calling up military Reservists to sup-
port border agents in their dangerous
and underappreciated work.
I support the President’s invocation
of 10 USC section 284(b)(7), which un-
equivocally authorizes him, in certain
instances, relevant here and present
here, to authorize funding for the con-
struction of a fence along international
boundaries as a means of combating
the illegal international drug trade.
I support the President’s use of up to
$601 million from the Treasury For-
feiture Fund and $2.5 billion from the
284 fund I mentioned a minute ago, and
I support the administration’s work, on
a diplomatic level, with Mexico to re-
duce the flow of migrants to the United
States. I have supported all of these
things in this administration, and I
have for years—during this administra-
tion and prior to that—and I will con-
tinue to support these policies.
An emergency declaration, in accord-
ance with the National Emergencies
Act, in this instance, is different. The
White House is asserting authority to
spend money on projects and priorities
in a manner not themselves directly
authorized by Congress. Congress di-
rectly refused a request to appropriate
the specific amount of funds we are
dealing with.
At the end of the day, it is not the
White House, it is not this President, it
is not other Presidents who are at fault
for this; it is, in fact, Congress. Con-
gress was the institution that chose
voluntarily to relinquish this power.
Congress, as an institution, adopted
and enacted legislation that was so
broad as to take basically all the
guardrails off the legislative process.
Congress, as an institution, in 1976,
adopted the National Emergencies Act
and said the President may declare an
emergency with almost no standards,
and then, once a President declares an
emergency, there are some estimated
128 different provisions of law that can
be looped in and made effective as a re-
sult of the declaration of that emer-
gency.
At the time Congress did this, Con-
gress left its foot in the door, saying
that Congress unilaterally could veto
the President’s actions by passing a
concurrent resolution not itself subject
to Presidential veto. For reasons hav-
ing to do with a subsequent Supreme
Court ruling that occurred 7 years
after the enactment of the National
Emergencies Act in 1983, a case called
INS v. Chadha—a case, coincidentally,
argued by my late father. If he were
here today, perhaps I would half-jok-
ingly acknowledge that maybe he is in
some ways to blame for this.
After the Supreme Court concluded
in INS v. Chadha that the legislative
veto was unconstitutional, Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.036 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1879
March 14, 2019
went through and systematically re-
moved, from about 450 statutes, the
legislative veto provisions, replaced
them with resolutions of disapproval,
replaced them with a procedural mech-
anism whereby Congress may signal its
disapproval, but that disapproval is
still subject to signature or veto by the
President.
This is where we have a problem be-
cause that converts, effectively, legis-
lative power by handing it over to the
Executive and then leaves the Congress
without an opportunity to signal how
it feels about this beyond adopting a
resolution of disapproval, which is
itself subject to a Presidential veto.
That is why I am concerned about
this. I have concerns about this legal
framework. This is not about the Presi-
dent. This is not about my disagree-
ment with or disapproval of the Presi-
dent or his approach to border security
or his desire to build a barrier along
our southern border. I think all those
things need to happen.
This law is wrong. It is not President
Trump’s fault. It is Congress’s. We need
to change it. I look forward to working
with my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to reform the National Emer-
gencies Act. We need to get this done.
This is an issue that is neither Repub-
lican nor Democratic, neither liberal
nor conservative. It is simply an Amer-
ican issue.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that I have up to 5
minutes to make comments on the res-
olution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, a few
weeks ago, I was talking with my staff,
in advance of the President issuing the
emergency order, and I told them I
wanted to put together an op-ed to
really express two things; one, my con-
cern with the manner in which funds
were being appropriated but also that
there is a real crisis we have to ad-
dress. In fact, I am very sympathetic to
what the President did, and the only
question is how he went about doing it.
I received a lot of feedback over the
past few weeks, but what it allowed me
to do was to engage in a discussion
with some of my colleagues here and
with the White House over the past
couple of weeks that have been very
productive.
My main concern with this Executive
action is future potential abuses. I
have a concern with the Executive ac-
tion the President took, the emergency
order, and that is why I voiced it, but
I am sympathetic to what he was try-
ing to do.
I think we can view this as an oppor-
tunity—I thought we could view this as
an opportunity where maybe we could
have a discussion about the National
Emergencies Act and potentially make
a real difference.
So today, I come to the floor to say
that I do not intend to vote for the res-
olution of disapproval, and here is why.
A lot has changed over the last 3
weeks—a discussion with the Vice
President and a number of senior ad-
ministration officials, a lot of collabo-
ration with my colleague from Utah.
There is serious discussion about
changing the National Emergencies
Act in a way that will have Congress
speak on emergency actions in the fu-
ture.
The White House has been very gra-
cious and I should say very patient,
given my initial position, in working
with us and as late as today having the
President make a statement that he is
willing to work with us. I suspect that
we will hear more from the President.
We also heard today from Leader
MCCONNELL. I was trying to remem-
ber—I don’t know whether it has been
done before—Leader MCCONNELL took
to the floor this morning and said that
he encourages this discussion through
the regular order and working on a bi-
partisan basis to move a measure for-
ward through the Homeland Security
Committee and to this floor for a vote.
I, for one, am going to work on that
and hopefully get consensus on a bipar-
tisan basis after the temperatures have
cooled and we can move on.
In the meantime, I think we have to
recognize that we have a crisis at the
border, with 76,000 people crossing ille-
gally in February alone. We have nar-
cotics flooding our country, poisoning
our children and adults of all ages. A
lot of it has to do with the porous bor-
der and the seemingly unending and
spiraling-out-of-control crossings.
One of the challenges that I have to
communicate to my constituents, and I
am sure everyone does, is how do I rec-
oncile—first, I should say that my col-
leagues on this side of the aisle who
will vote for the resolution of dis-
approval I think to a person also recog-
nize that there is a crisis. I respect
them for their decision; it is just not a
decision that I can take.
Over the course of the next few
months, I look forward to working
with the administration to talk about
boundaries that we are very close to
getting agreement on and making
changes to the National Emergencies
Act that will make sense.
The fact that this President is pre-
pared to transfer power back to the ar-
ticle I branch—by his statements, ei-
ther publicly or through his adminis-
tration—is extraordinary. That we
have a leader, with a Republican down
the street, willing to move this
through the regular order is extraor-
dinary.
For those reasons, I will be voting
against the resolution of disapproval,
and I encourage my colleagues to do
the same.
Thank you.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President,
today, I am voting against the resolu-
tion to end the national emergency.
Make no mistake: Our Nation is facing
a prolonged and worsening security and
humanitarian crisis on our southern
border. Lethal drugs are flooding
across the border at an alarming rate.
Just last year, enough fentanyl to kill
88 million Americans was seized by bor-
der patrol agents between our ports of
entry. We are also witnessing unprece-
dented levels of illegal immigration
and are on track for the highest level
of illegal immigration in more than a
decade. That means more human traf-
ficking, more forced labor, and more
exploitation of people along the dan-
gerous journey to the United States.
Failures by Congress to adequately ad-
dress our immigration and border secu-
rity issues have only exacerbated this
crisis.
Here is just a sample of the data from
our Federal authorities. The total vol-
ume of illegal immigration is increas-
ing. Illegal immigration is on pace to
exceed the highest level in more than
10 years. There has been a 338 percent
increase in family units from the
Northern Triangle apprehended thus
far in fiscal year 2019 compared with
same period in fiscal year 2018. There
was 54 percent increase in unaccom-
panied minors apprehended thus far in
fiscal year 2019 compared with same pe-
riod in fiscal year 2018.
Additionally, drug seizures are in-
creasing between ports of entry. In fis-
cal year 2018, U.S. Border Patrol inter-
cepted 388 pounds of fentanyl between
our ports of entry. That is enough to
kill 88 million Americans; that is right,
88 million Americans. Fentanyl sei-
zures increased 73 percent between fis-
cal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018. Her-
oin seizures also increased 22 percent
between fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year
2018. Methamphetamine seizures in-
creased 38 percent between fiscal year
2017 and fiscal year 2018.
As I have said repeatedly, even
though the President is using the au-
thority given to him by Congress, I
share my colleagues’ concerns that too
much authority has been delegated to
the executive branch. In 1976, Congress
gave the President the authority to de-
clare national emergencies, so we
shouldn’t be surprised when he seeks to
use it, just as others have done. For
this reason, I will continue working to
pass meaningful legislation, like the
ARTICLE ONE Act, to reclaim con-
gressional power from the executive
branch and improve congressional
oversight of the National Emergency
Act. I encourage my colleagues to join
in this effort, which takes real action,
as opposed to symbolic show votes that
don’t address the root of the problem.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the
President often claims that he knows
how to make deals, but when it comes
to the border, he seems uninterested in
a good deal, a deal to provide effective
border security, and he is hurting our
military in the process. This week’s
vote to repeal the President’s national
emergency is a vote to restore sanity
to our border security debate and re-
store Congress’s constitutional power
of the purse.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.037 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1880 March 14, 2019
We all remember Donald Trump’s
idea that we need a 2,000-mile concrete
wall from sea to shining sea and his
claim that Mexico would pay for it. He
said it some 200 times on the campaign
trail and in the Oval Office. In Decem-
ber, after asking and failing to receive
funding from Congress for this wall,
the President said, ‘‘I am proud to shut
down the government for border secu-
rity.’’
What followed was the 35-day Trump
shutdown, the longest government
shutdown in U.S. history. It cost our
country $11 billion, according to the
Congressional Budget Office. After the
President finally agreed to reopen the
government, Congress provided funding
to the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity for smart and effective border se-
curity measures, including technology
and additional Customs personnel. We
did this because the President’s own
administration has stated that the vast
majority of lethal narcotics that cross
our southern border come through
legal ports of entry.
But within hours of signing this bill,
President Donald Trump announced
that it wasn’t enough. The President
went on television to announce that he
was declaring a national emergency
over the border, and he announced that
he was taking $6.5 billion from our
military to build it.
Presidents of both parties have de-
clared national emergencies. Each
time, it was done in response to a spe-
cific crisis, in order to unlock certain
statutory authorities. President
George W. Bush declared a national
emergency after the 9/11 terrorist at-
tacks. In the 1970s, President Carter de-
clared a national emergency as it per-
tained to Iran. Presidents of both par-
ties have declared and updated emer-
gencies relating to instability in Syria.
What Presidents did in those situa-
tions varied—sometimes levying sanc-
tions, sometimes seizing assets—but
each time, it was accepted on a bipar-
tisan basis as necessary, legitimate,
and in defense of our national inter-
ests. What President Trump did was
different. For the last 2 years, he has
struggled to fulfill a campaign prom-
ise, so when he didn’t get his way, he
created a fake crisis and declared a
phony emergency.
The good news is that the American
people aren’t buying it. A poll con-
ducted earlier this month by
Quinnipiac University found that 66
percent of voters oppose the Presi-
dent’s end-run around Congress and op-
pose his fake emergency declaration.
Newspapers around the country have
concluded the same thing. The Tampa
Bay Times editorial board said it clear-
ly a few days after the President’s an-
nouncement, ‘‘Border wall is no emer-
gency.’’ In their words, ‘‘It is not a na-
tional emergency just because Presi-
dent Donald Trump didn’t get his
way.’’
West Virginia’s Herald Dispatch
newspaper concludes much the same,
urging the President to ‘‘take a real-
istic look at whether the wall is needed
or if it’s simply an unnecessary quest
to satisfy his ego.’’ That is common
sense, but then common sense seems to
be in short supply in this White House.
Not only is the President declaring a
fake emergency, but he is using that
crisis to take money. The President
has told us that he will take $6.5 billion
that Congress gave to our troops and
spend it instead on a wall on the south-
ern border. He is proposing to delay or
cancel $3.6 billion in military construc-
tion projects—projects that our mili-
tary told Congress it needed less than a
year ago—and divert it to his wall.
Last Friday, Senator SCHATZ and I
sent a letter to Acting Secretary of De-
fense Patrick Shanahan demanding to
know which projects have been deemed,
due to political interference, as less
important than the President’s wall.
There are almost 400 military projects
at risk. They cover 43 States, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico,
and more than a dozen foreign coun-
tries, including strong U.S. allies like
Japan and the United Kingdom.
The President will have to cancel or
postpone approximately 20 percent of
these projects for his wall. What are we
talking about?—$800 million for essen-
tial training facilities like National
Guard Readiness Centers, simulators,
and firing ranges in Alaska, Arizona,
Colorado, and Montana, to name a few;
$1.4 billion worth of maintenance-re-
lated projects, such as aircraft hang-
ars, and vehicle maintenance shops in
Arkansas, Indiana, Missouri, Okla-
homa, and elsewhere; $1 billion worth
of projects for medical and dental care
facilities, schools for military families,
military barracks and dining facilities
in Arizona, Missouri, Texas, and be-
yond.
For instance, the Marine Corps needs
a new rifle range at Parris Island, SC.
This base trains 20,000 new Marine re-
cruits every year. Also on the list is
new training center at Fort Bragg, NC,
to provide top-notch training and pre-
vent injuries among our special oper-
ations forces. They are using old ware-
house right now. Are we really going to
tell our military that their needs are
being put on hold so the President can
fulfill his campaign promise to build a
wall? I hope those aren’t our priorities.
In addition, the President also an-
nounced that he would take $2.5 billion
in other military funds for his wall.
The Pentagon tells me that they may
take some of this money from excess
military pay and pensions. Meanwhile,
each of the military services—Army,
Air Force, Navy, and Marines—have
met with me to discuss a long list of
urgent, last-minute needs, but with $2.5
billion being diverted for the wall,
none of those leaders were able to say
whether or not they would get the
funding they need.
Last year, Hurricane Florence dam-
aged 800 buildings at Camp Lejeune,
New River, and Cherry Point, causing
$3.6 billion in damage from wind and
flood waters. A similar hurricane lev-
eled Tyndall Air Force Base, in Flor-
ida. Both of them could use billions
right now for repairs.
I am also told that the Navy needs
hundreds of millions of additional dol-
lars for unexpected ship maintenance.
We can’t afford not to make sure our
sailors are safe on deployment. The Na-
tional Guard has 2,100 personnel on the
border, but it is starting to run low on
its pay account. Unless DOD finds $150–
300 million this year, the Guard will
have to cut short its summer trainings
in all 50 States to pay for this.
My subcommittee has identified al-
most $5 billion in military priorities
that need attention now, but after the
President takes $2.5 billion to pay for
his border wall, which priorities will
get cut?
This week, Republicans and Demo-
crats in the Senate should join the
House in rejecting the President’s
phony emergency declaration, and the
Senate should reject any effort by the
President to take money from our
troops to build the wall.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to speak on the resolution of
disapproval before us that would termi-
nate President Trump’s phony national
emergency.
President Trump’s national emer-
gency declaration, which he attempts
to justify using falsehoods about immi-
gration and the Southern border, pre-
sents a serious threat to the separation
of powers and the rule of law.
First I would like to speak about how
there really isn’t an emergency at the
border, then I would like to get into
the constitutional problems with the
President’s actions.
While illegal border crossings do
occur, all of the numbers refute Presi-
dent Trump’s claim that there is a cri-
sis at the border. Those claims simply
don’t hold up.
Unauthorized border crossings have
been at their lowest levels in years.
In 2000, border agencies reported
more than 1.6 million apprehensions.
In 2017, the agency reported just
303,916 apprehensions, one-fifth of the
level just two decades ago.
It is clear that investments in border
security have worked. Those include
additional border patrol agents, fenc-
ing in urban areas, ground sensors,
drones, and increased use of E-Verify.
In addition, since 2014, two-thirds of
undocumented immigrants have come
to the United States legally but then
overstayed their visas, more than
500,000 per year. A border wall would do
nothing to curb visa overstays.
Dangerous criminals aren’t over-
running our country.
Immigrants commit fewer crimes
than native-born citizens. Data col-
lected in Texas show the arrest rate for
undocumented immigrants in 2015 was
40 percent lower than for the native-
born population.
Additionally, many immigrants are
actually legally seeking asylum
through the process already in place.
There are often families with young
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.005 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1881
March 14, 2019
children fleeing persecution and vio-
lence in Central America who have a
legal right to petition our government
for asylum.
Under current law, they can apply for
asylum by presenting themselves at a
U.S. port of entry. Unfortunately, by
focusing on a border wall instead of in-
vesting in modernizing entry points,
President Trump’s policies force many
of these families to turn themselves
into Border Patrol in between ports
and ask for asylum or wait for long pe-
riods in Mexico in dangerous condi-
tions.
The timing of the President’s dec-
laration also undercuts his claim that
this is an emergency.
President Trump kicked off his Pres-
idential campaign nearly 4 years ago
by claiming that immigrants were
bringing drugs and crime to the United
States. Despite this, he decided to wait
until more than halfway through his
term to declare his emergency and only
then after Congress refused to give him
the money he wanted.
If there were truly an emergency, the
President should have declared it on
day 1. He did not.
Trump also emphatically rejected a
bill that would have given him $25 bil-
lion for a border wall in exchange for
providing Dreamers a path to citizen-
ship. Clearly, there was no emergency
then either.
But the most clear statement that
there is no emergency came from
President Trump himself, who after de-
claring the emergency, said this in a
Rose Garden speech: ‘‘I didn’t need to
do this, but I’d rather do it much fast-
er.’’
We shouldn’t judge the President’s
attempt to divert appropriated funds to
his border wall through a partisan lens,
but rather view it as a radical depar-
ture from our constitutional separa-
tion of powers.
Through its appropriations clause,
the Constitution provides Congress,
not the President, with the power of
the purse. Congress decides how to
spend taxpayer dollars.
By providing Congress with this
power, our Founding Fathers imposed a
key check on the President, a check
that President Trump is trying to do
away with.
Congress exercised its power of the
purse last month in a spending bill to
keep the government open by including
$1.35 billion for border barriers, rather
than the $6 billion the President
sought for a border wall.
The Constitution gave the President
two options at that point: sign the bill
or veto it. President Trump tried to
create a third path, saying he would
sign the bill but still divert additional
Federal dollars to the wall, his so-
called emergency.
In essence, the President decided to
violate the Constitution so he could
more quickly fulfill a campaign prom-
ise to build his border wall.
One of the ironies of President
Trump’s decision to divert funds to a
border wall that won’t stop drugs or
crossings is the pots of money from
which he is drawing.
First, the White House said it would
pull $2.5 billion from a counter-
narcotics program that is used to sup-
port international law enforcement
interdiction and apprehension efforts,
as well as to fund National Guard sup-
port for State drug law enforcement
operations, including in California.
Second, the White House said it
would take another $3.5 billion from
military construction projects.
These are programs that actually
help improve our national security,
and the President wants to take bil-
lions of dollars from them to build a
wall—incredible.
The long-term danger here is that
President Trump will set a precedent
that a Commander in Chief can inter-
pret the Nation’s laws and the Con-
stitution any way he wants. This can’t
be allowed to stand.
The National Emergencies Act of 1976
does allow the President to reprogram
funds appropriated by Congress in case
of a national emergency, like a hurri-
cane or earthquake, but it is clear that
the law was never intended to be used
to explicitly overrule the will of Con-
gress, which is how President Trump
wants to use it.
During the Korean war, the Supreme
Court struck down a similar attempt
by President Truman to use emergency
powers to seize privately owned steel
mills, an action inconsistent with laws
passed by Congress.
Even if there were an emergency—
which there isn’t—President Trump
still wouldn’t have the authority to re-
program Federal funds in this context.
Specifically, the statute that Presi-
dent Trump relies on, 10 U.S.C. § 2808,
allows the President, in a national
emergency that ‘‘requires the use of
the armed forces,’’ to spend unobli-
gated military construction funds for
military construction projects ‘‘that
are necessary to support . . . use of the
armed forces.’’
The situation at the border does not
‘‘require the use of the armed forces,’’
and it is unclear how the wall would be
‘‘necessary to support’’ them.
If anything, the President’s use of
the military at the border to enforce
the law raises additional questions
under the Posse Comitatus Act, which
has prohibited the use of the Armed
Forces for domestic law enforcement
for well over a century.
In sum, President Trump is relying
on an incredibly frail legal argument
to justify this blatant power grab. It is
incumbent upon Congress to hold this
President accountable as he attempts
to seize one of our most important
powers.
I urge my colleagues to support this
resolution of disapproval and cancel
President Trump’s phony emergency.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. We have 1 minute re-
maining, I think. I ask unanimous con-
sent to speak in leader time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SCHUMER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
Today, the Senate will vote on the
resolution to terminate the President’s
declaration of a national emergency.
Let me begin with a quotation.
Revelations of how power has been abused
by high government officials must give rise
to concern about the potential exercise, un-
checked by the Congress or the American
people, of this extraordinary power. The Na-
tional Emergencies Act would end this
threat and ensure that the powers now in the
hands of the Executive will be utilized only
in a time of genuine emergency and then
only under safeguards providing for congres-
sional review.
Let me repeat that. ‘‘[T]he powers
now in the hands of the Executive will
be utilized only in a time of genuine
emergency.’’ That is from the special
committee report on the National
Emergencies Act, which was passed
decades ago.
The bottom line is very simple. We
all know the other arguments—that
this is not an emergency. The Presi-
dent himself said so. He said he didn’t
have to do this if he didn’t want to. In
previous emergencies, it was either ap-
parent, like 9/11, or it was a disease or
some other immediate disaster, and
there was a long explanation as to why.
We have gotten no explanation as to
why this is an emergency.
The second reason, of course, is the
money that might be taken away from
the military—our brave men and
women in uniform not getting the dol-
lars they need—for this wall.
The third, of course, is that the
President couldn’t get his way through
Congress even when we had 2 years of
Republican leadership in the House,
Senate, and White House, couldn’t get
his way this time, and is now simply
going around Congress to declare an
emergency.
But those reasons pale for the most
important reason. This is a momentous
day. The balance of power that the
Founding Fathers put in place, so ex-
quisitely designed, has served this Na-
tion extremely well for over two cen-
turies. That balance of power was in
large part motivated by the fear of an
overreaching Executive. The patriots
had just fought King George. They
knew what it was like to have an Exec-
utive who would go too far, and they
put in precautions to make sure that
didn’t happen.
Today, we are being asked, in a way
that we haven’t been asked in decades,
maybe even longer, to change that bal-
ance of power. And make no mistake
about it—it will set an awful precedent
for the future, no matter who is Presi-
dent. It will change it. If a President
can invoke an emergency because he
didn’t get his way or she didn’t get her
way, without real cause, without a real
emergency, woe is our Republic in
many ways—the ways the Founding
Fathers feared.
I know this is a very difficult vote for
my friends on the other side of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.006 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1882 March 14, 2019
aisle—much more difficult than ours.
We all know that the President is ex-
tremely popular in the Republican
Party for maybe a few good reasons—I
would say mostly bad, but he is. We
know that he has been vindictive, con-
temptuous, calling out people who op-
pose him. So it is not an easy vote. I
take my hat off to those Members on
the other side of the aisle who have let
principle rise above party, who under-
stand what the Constitution requires
this afternoon and have agreed to vote
against this emergency.
I would plead with those others who
haven’t made up their minds to look at
this moment in history. This is not an
immediate moment. You can be for the
wall or against the wall, you can think
that what we are doing at the southern
border is inadequate, but that issue
pales before the issue before us; that is,
how far an Executive can reach when
Congress does not want to do what that
Executive wants.
This is a crucial moment. This is a
moment historians will look back on.
This could be a moment that changes
the fundamental balance of power in
our government. So I would ask my
colleagues—I would really plead with
my colleagues. I understand the poli-
tics are difficult—much harder for you
than for me—but our Nation, our Con-
stitution, the beauty of this govern-
ment demands that we rise to the occa-
sion this afternoon. Please join us in
rejecting this emergency and keeping
our government with the same balance
of power that has served us so well for
two centuries.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all time has ex-
pired.
The joint resolution was ordered to a
third reading and was read the third
time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The joint
resolution having been read the third
time, the question is, Shall the joint
resolution pass?
Mr. CARDIN. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
The result was announced—yeas 59,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 49 Leg.]
YEAS—59
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Portman
Reed
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—41
Barrasso
Blackburn
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Perdue
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Young
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 46)
was passed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 20.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona,
to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
RECOGNIZING THE DUTY OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO CRE-
ATE A GREEN NEW DEAL—Motion
to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 27,
S.J. Res. 8.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 27, S.J.
Res. 8, a joint resolution recognizing the
duty of the Federal Government to create a
Green New Deal.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 27, S.J. Res.
8, a joint resolution recognizing the duty of
the Federal Government to create a Green
New Deal.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Boozman, Johnny Isakson, John Cor-
nyn, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Roger F. Wicker,
John Thune, Richard Burr, Steve
Daines, John Hoeven, John Barrasso,
James E. Risch, Roy Blunt.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I withdraw the
motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has that right.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—Motion to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 15,
H.R. 268.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 15, H.R.
268, a bill making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 15, H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Boozman, Johnny Isakson, John Cor-
nyn, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, John Thune,
Richard Burr, Steve Daines, John
Hoeven, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Susan M. Collins, Lisa Murkowski.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Nebraska.
NEBRASKA’S BOMB CYCLONE
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I
would first like to address the harsh
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.039 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1883
March 14, 2019
and very inclement weather that is
sweeping across the State of Nebraska.
My prayers are with the Nebraskans
who have been affected by the dam-
aging storm.
This massive storm they are calling a
bomb cyclone has brought blizzard con-
ditions, hurricane force winds, and dan-
gerous floods to Nebraska. Some people
have had to evacuate their homes. Oth-
ers have been working tirelessly for the
safety of their livestock.
I thank our emergency responders,
the State, and local officials who are
helping the citizens of our State during
this time.
I want all Nebraskans to know that
my office stands ready to assist you in
any possible way.
HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
SERGEANT CORY RYAN MRACEK
Mr. President, I rise to continue my
tributes to the current generation of
men and women who have lost their
lives in Iraq and in Afghanistan while
defending our freedom. Each of these
Nebraska heroes has a special story to
tell.
I recall today the life and service of
SGT Cory Mracek, who was a native of
Hay Springs, NE.
Though Cory spent most of his life in
Hay Springs, he was born in Chadron,
NE. Both of his parents, Pat and Jim,
were born and raised in Nebraska as
well.
As a young child, Cory was always
trying to have a good time. He was
often found either laughing or trying
to make others laugh. Cory talked a
lot, starting at age 1. Pat, his mother,
fondly remembers that Cory was a cu-
rious child, and when they would go
into stores, Cory would always touch
different items because he wanted to
know more about them. He was an
easygoing kid, and he loved watching
Sesame Street on a regular basis.
Cory was close to his grandfather,
and they would often go places to-
gether and spend time together. Both
of Cory’s younger sisters, Stacy and
Heather, came into the world when he
was a young child, and he had a very
close relationship with both of them.
As is often the case with siblings,
though, they sometimes quarreled.
Like many kids his age, Cory was
fascinated by ‘‘Star Wars’’ and ‘‘The
Simpsons.’’ The original ‘‘Star Wars’’
movies came out when Cory was young,
and he had all kinds of ‘‘Star Wars’’
figurines and action figures around the
house.
Cory attended several small schools
in northwest Nebraska before enrolling
in Hay Springs High School. Around
the time Cory started high school, Mi-
chael Jordan was changing the sport of
basketball all over the world. The Chi-
cago Bulls’ legend became Cory’s
sports hero. His bedroom was covered
with Michael Jordan posters, basket-
ball cards, and memorabilia.
During his high school years, Cory
became involved in many extra-
curricular activities. Fishing was one
of his favorites, and he would often go
to nearby Walgren Lake, southwest of
Hay Springs.
In high school, Cory was also in-
volved in basketball and football,
where he played fullback.
Pat vividly remembers when she
worked in the eastern part of Nebraska
one week so that Cory could attend
Tom Osborne’s Big Red Football
School for 3 days. This was a popular
football camp that many teenage boys
in Nebraska participated in over the
years.
At Hay Springs High, Cory wasn’t too
fond of actually going to school, but he
was more than capable. He scored a 30
on his ACT, and his armed services vo-
cational aptitude battery score was
also exceptionally high.
After graduating from Hay Springs
High School, Cory attended Chadron
State College, just down the road from
where he grew up. While at Chadron
State, Cory had a hard time finding a
good job. With his high marks on the
test, Cory decided to enlist in the Ne-
braska Army National Guard. He grad-
uated from basic training at Fort Sill,
OK, in 1996.
After 1 year, Cory transferred to the
Active Army because it provided him
with a year-round job. Cory’s military
occupation specialty was 13-bravo or
cannon crewmember for artillery, and
he was stationed at Fort Campbell in
Kentucky.
Immediately after joining the Active
Army, Cory was deployed to South
Korea for 1 year. He enjoyed his time
in Korea, and he participated in the
tradition of the Manchu Mile, a
daunting, 24-mile march in full combat
gear across Korea’s mountainous ter-
rain.
Cory was also involved in the honor
guard.
In January of 2001, Cory returned
home to Nebraska and transitioned
back to the National Guard. Months
later, the September 11 terrorist at-
tacks changed our Nation and the
world. The events of that fateful day
ignited deep patriotism within Cory.
While he and his parents were outside
their home holding up candles in mem-
ory of the lives lost in the 9/11 attacks,
Cory told his mom that he was going to
transition back to the Active Army to
serve his country.
In early 2002, Cory transitioned back
to the Active Army from the Nebraska
National Guard. Cory then deployed to
Korea for a second time—this time for
15 months, serving near the demili-
tarized zone between North and South
Korea.
When he returned from Korea, Cory
was assigned to the 82nd Airborne Divi-
sion at Fort Bragg and completed air-
borne school in November of 2003.
Shortly after, Cory received notice
that he was deploying to Iraq. Cory ar-
rived in Iraq for his deployment in Jan-
uary of 2004. Pat had already sent care
packages over for Cory so they would
be there when he arrived.
On the morning of January 27, 2004,
Pat instant-messaged with Cory to
catch up and see how things were
going. Later that same day, Cory and
his reconnaissance platoon were per-
forming a mission near Iskandariyah,
Iraq. This particular area of Iraq saw
major combat activity and sectarian
violence from 2003 to 2007. During
Cory’s reconnaissance mission that
day, his platoon came across an IED.
Cory and two other U.S. servicemem-
bers were killed by that explosion.
On Wednesday, February 4, 2004, at
the Chadron State College gymnasium,
more than 600 family members, friends,
and military officials gathered to cele-
brate and honor the life, service, and
sacrifice of SGT Cory Mracek. He was
eulogized by many, including his two
sisters, Stacy and Heather.
He was laid to rest at the Gordon
City Cemetery next to his grandfather.
The funeral procession from Chadron
to Gordon was a short drive by western
Nebraska standards—46 miles. From
Chadron to Hay Springs to Rushville,
people lined the streets to pay their re-
spects, wave American flags, and salute
Cory.
For quite some time, Cory’s parents
thought about the best way to memori-
alize him. Eventually, Pat came up
with the perfect tribute: renaming the
local Chadron, NE, post office after
Cory. Pat had previously worked at the
post office for 10 years, and she asked
GEN Roger Lempke, Retired, who is
now a member of my staff, how we
could make this happen.
I had the privilege of working along-
side former U.S. Senator Mike Johanns
on legislation to rename the Chadron
Post Office the ‘‘Sergeant Cory Mracek
Memorial Post Office.’’ The bill was
passed by Congress, and it was signed
into law on November 2014.
To this day, Cory’s mother, Pat, re-
mains heavily involved in many vet-
eran and military organizations. She is
the president of Nebraska Gold Star
Mothers and the cochair of the Honor
and Remember Nebraska Chapter.
Both Pat and Cory’s father, Jim,
would like our Nation to remember
how happy Cory was. He liked to laugh,
have fun, and enjoy life.
I join Nebraskans and Americans
across our country in saluting Cory’s
willingness to serve and the sacrifices
he and his family made to keep us free,
and I am honored to tell his story.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H. CON. RES. 24
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this
morning, something rather amazing
and wonderful happened in the House
of Representatives. The House of Rep-
resentatives this morning passed a res-
olution expressing the sense of Con-
gress that the full report by Special
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.046 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1884 March 14, 2019
Counsel Robert Mueller should be made
available to the public and to Congress.
The vote was 420 to 0. Not a single
Member of the House, Democratic or
Republican, voted no.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the record of the vote, includ-
ing all 190 Republicans who voted yes,
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
FINAL VOTE RESULTS FOR ROLL CALL 125
(Democrats in roman; Republicans in italic;
Independents underlined)
H. Con. Res. 24: Yea-and-Nay, 14-Mar-2019,
10:30 AM.
Question: On Agreeing to the Resolution.
Bill Title: Expressing the sense of Congress
that the report of Special Counsel Mueller
should be made available to the public and to
Congress.
Yeas Nays Pres NV
Democratic .............................................. 230 .......... .......... 4
Republican .............................................. 190 .......... 4 3
Independent ............................................. .......... .......... .......... ..........
Totals .............................................. 420 .......... 4 7
YEAS 420
Abraham ...................... Golden .......................... Ocasio-Cortez
Adams .......................... Gomez .......................... Olson
Aderholt ........................ Gonzalez (OH) .............. Omar
Aguilar ......................... Gonzalez (TK) ............... Palazzo
Allen ............................. Gooden ......................... Pallone
Allred ............................ Gottheimer ................... Palmer
Amodei ......................... Granger ........................ Panetta
Armstrong .................... Graves (GA) .................. Pappas
Arrington ...................... Graves (LA) .................. Pascrell
Axne ............................. Graves (MO) ................. Payne
Babin ........................... Green (TN) .................... Pence
Bacon ........................... Green (TX) .................... Perlmutter
Baird ............................ Griffith ......................... Perry
Balderson ..................... Grijalva ........................ Peters
Banks ........................... Grothman ..................... Peterson
Barr .............................. Guest ............................ Phillips
Barragán ...................... Guthrie ......................... Pingree
Bass ............................. Haaland ....................... Pocan
Beatty ........................... Hagedorn ...................... Porter
Bera ............................. Harder (CA) .................. Posey
Bergman ...................... Harris ........................... Pressley
Beyer ............................ Hartzler ........................ Price (NC)
Biggs ............................ Hayes ........................... Quigley
Bilirakis ........................ Heck ............................. Raskin
Bishop (GA) .................. Hern, Kevin .................. Reed
Bishop (UT) .................. Herrera Beutler ............ Reschenthaler
Blumenauer .................. Hice (GA) ...................... Rice (NY)
Blunt Rochester ........... Higgins (LA) ................. Rice (SC)
Bonamici ...................... Higgins (NY) ................ Richmond
Bost .............................. Hill (AR) ....................... Riggleman
Boyle, Brendan F. ........ Hill (CA) ....................... Roby
Brady ............................ Himes ........................... Rodgers (WA)
Brindisi ........................ Holding ......................... Roe, David P.
Brooks (AL) .................. Hollingsworth ............... Rogers (AL)
Brooks (IN) ................... Horn, Kendra S. ........... Rogers (KY)
Brown (MD) .................. Horsford ....................... Rooney (FL)
Brownley (CA) .............. Houlahan ...................... Rose (NY)
Buchanan ..................... Hoyer ............................ Rose, John W.
Buck ............................. Hudson ......................... Rouda
Bucshon ....................... Huffman ....................... Rouzer
Budd ............................ Huizenga ...................... Roy
Burchett ....................... Hunter .......................... Roybal-Allard
Burgess ........................ Hurd (TX) ..................... Ruiz
Bustos .......................... Jackson Lee .................. Ruppersberger
Butterfield .................... Jayapal ......................... Rush
Byrne ............................ Jeffries ......................... Rutherford
Calvert ......................... Johnson (GA) ................ Ryan
Carbajal ....................... Johnson (LA) ................ Sánchez
Cárdenas ...................... Johnson (OH) ................ Sarbanes
Carson (IN) .................. Johnson (SD) ................ Scalise
Carter (GA) ................... Johnson (TX) ................ Scanlon
Carter (TX) ................... Jordan .......................... Schakowsky
Cartwright .................... Joyce (OH) .................... Schiff
Case ............................. Joyce (PA) ..................... Schneider
Casten (IL) ................... Kaptur .......................... Schrader
Castor (FL) ................... Katko ............................ Schrier
Castro (TX) ................... Keating ......................... Scott (VA)
Chabot ......................... Kelly (IL) ....................... Scott, Austin
Cheney ......................... Kelly (MS) ..................... Scott, David
Chu, Judy ..................... Kelly (PA) ..................... Sensenbrenner
Cicilline ........................ Kennedy ........................ Serrano
Cisneros ....................... Khanna ......................... Sewell (AL)
YEAS 420—Continued
Clark (MA) .................... Kildee ........................... Shalala
Clarke (NY) .................. Kilmer ........................... Sherman
Clay .............................. Kim ............................... Sherrill
Cline ............................. Kind .............................. Shimkus
Cloud ............................ King (IA) ....................... Simpson
Clyburn ......................... King (NY) ..................... Sires
Cohen ........................... Kinzinger ...................... Slotkin
Cole .............................. Kirkpatrick .................... Smith (MO)
Collins (GA) .................. Krishnamoorthi ............. Smith (NE)
Collins (NY) .................. Kuster (NH) .................. Smith (NJ)
Comer ........................... Kustoff (TN) ................. Smith (WA)
Conaway ....................... LaHood ......................... Smucker
Connolly ....................... LaMalfa ........................ Soto
Cook ............................. Lamb ............................ Spanberger
Cooper .......................... Lamborn ....................... Spano
Correa .......................... Langevin ...................... Speier
Costa ............................ Larsen (WA) ................. Stanton
Courtney ....................... Larson (CT) .................. Stauber
Cox (CA) ....................... Latta ............................ Stefanik
Craig ............................ Lawrence ...................... Steil
Crawford ...................... Lawson (FL) ................. Steube
Crenshaw ..................... Lee (CA) ....................... Stevens
Crist ............................. Lee (NV) ....................... Stewart
Crow ............................. Lesko ............................ Stivers
Cuellar ......................... Levin (CA) .................... Suozzi
Cummings .................... Levin (MI) ..................... Swalwell (CA)
Cunningham ................ Lewis ............................ Takano
Curtis ........................... Lieu, Ted ...................... Taylor
Davids (KS) .................. Lipinski ........................ Thompson (CA)
Davidson (OH) .............. Loebsack ...................... Thompson (MS)
Davis (CA) .................... Long ............................. Thompson (PA)
Davis, Danny K. ........... Loudermilk ................... Thornberry
Davis, Rodney .............. Lowenthal ..................... Timmons
Dean ............................. Lowey ........................... Tipton
DeFazio ......................... Lucas ........................... Titus
DeGette ........................ Luetkemeyer ................. Tlaib
DeLauro ........................ Luján ............................ Tonko
DelBene ........................ Luria ............................. Torres (CA)
Delgado ........................ Lynch ............................ Torres Small (NM)
Demings ....................... Malinowski ................... Trahan
DeSaulnier .................... Maloney, Carolyn B. ..... Trone
DesJarlais ..................... Maloney, Sean .............. Turner
Deutch .......................... Marchant ...................... Underwood
Diaz-Balart ................... Mast ............................. Upton
Dingell .......................... Matsui .......................... Van Drew
Doggett ........................ McAdams ..................... Vargas
Doyle, Michael F. ......... McBath ......................... Veasey
Duffy ............................ McCarthy ...................... Vela
Duncan ......................... McCaul ......................... Velázquez
Dunn ............................ McClintock ................... Visclosky
Emmer .......................... McCollum ..................... Wagner
Engel ............................ McGovern ..................... Walberg
Escobar ........................ McHenry ....................... Walden
Eshoo ........................... McKinley ....................... Walker
Espaillat ....................... McNerney ...................... Walorski
Estes ............................ Meadows ...................... Waltz
Evans ........................... Meeks ........................... Wasserman Schultz
Ferguson ...................... Meng ............................ Waters
Finkenauer ................... Meuser ......................... Watkins
Fitzpatrick .................... Miller ............................ Watson Coleman
Fleischmann ................. Mitchell ........................ Weber (TX)
Fletcher ........................ Moolenaar .................... Webster (FL)
Flores ........................... Mooney (WV) ................ Welch
Fortenberry ................... Moore ........................... Wenstrup
Foster ........................... Morelle ......................... Westerman
Foxx (NC) ...................... Moulton ........................ Wexton
Frankel ......................... Mucarsel-Powell ........... Wild
Fudge ........................... Mullin ........................... Williams
Fulcher ......................... Murphy ......................... Wilson (FL)
Gabbard ....................... Nadler .......................... Wilson (SC)
Gallagher ..................... Napolitano .................... Wittman
Gallego ......................... Neal .............................. Womack
Garamendi ................... Neguse ......................... Woodall
Garcı́a (IL.) ................... Newhouse ..................... Wright
Garcia (TX) ................... Norcross ....................... Yarmuth
Gianforte ...................... Norman ........................ Yoho
Gibbs ............................ Nunes ........................... Young
Gohmert ....................... O’Halleran .................... Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’ 4
Amash ................................................ Gosar
Gaetz .................................................. Massie
NOT VOTING 7
Cleaver ......................... Marshall ....................... Schweikert
Hastings ....................... McEachin
Lofgren ......................... Ratcliffe
Mr. SCHUMER. Now, why did every
Republican vote for this? That is be-
cause there is no good reason that the
special counsel’s report should not be
made public. The American people are
overwhelmingly for making the report
public. They have a right to see it. No
one should stand in the way of that. In
fact, in the House, no one did. The only
reason to not make this report public
would be to cover up what is in it.
What a shame that would be.
The Senate should pass this resolu-
tion with the same unanimity that the
House did. The special counsel has been
investigating one of the greatest af-
fronts to our democracy—the delib-
erate interference by a foreign power in
our elections. The American people
have an undeniable right to see the re-
sults of that investigation for them-
selves, and so this resolution should
pass.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate proceed to the im-
mediate consideration of H. Con. Res.
24, expressing the sense of Congress
that the report of Special Counsel Rob-
ert Mueller be made available to the
public and to Congress, which is at the
desk; further, that the concurrent reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will
try to be very brief as far as where I
am coming from here.
We were told that Mueller may be
imminently fired. The President said
some things that were at times dis-
turbing about the investigation. I was
asked many times, let’s make sure we
protect Mueller and let him do his job.
So I first introduced the Special Coun-
sel Independence Protection Act on Au-
gust 3, 2017, with Republicans and
Democrats.
To my good friend from New York, I
think Mueller is just about done.
To all those who are worried about
Mueller not being able to do his job, he
has. He is about to tell us what he
found.
There is a regulation that determines
what is disclosed and how it is dis-
closed. I have all the confidence that
Mr. BARR will be as transparent as pos-
sible. That regulation is specific. You
can look at it for yourself. I would like
to know as much as possible and share
it with the public. However, I have also
been consistent in trying to find bal-
ance here.
In February of 2018, I called for a spe-
cial counsel to look at the abuses, po-
tentially, by the Department of Justice
and the FBI regarding the Clinton
email investigation and the handling of
the FISA warrant process against Mr.
CARTER Page, someone associated with
the Trump campaign.
So since 2018, I have asked a simple
thing. If this stuff about Page and
Strzok and Ohr doesn’t bother you,
then that bothers me. Were there two
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.048 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1885
March 14, 2019
systems of justice in 2016—one for the
Democratic candidate and one for the
Republican candidate, where the Re-
publican candidate’s campaign had a
FISA warrant issued against somebody
associated with it based on a document
that was known to be unreliable, po-
litically charged, on four different oc-
casions? That should bother every
American.
Rather than my telling you whether
it happened or not, why don’t we ap-
point a Mueller-like figure to look at
how the Clinton email investigation
ended up the way it did, what the
tarmac meeting was all about between
Loretta Lynch and Bill Clinton?
I can quickly say to my colleagues, if
the shoe were on the other foot, if the
Republican Party hired a foreign agent
to go to Russia to investigate dirt on
Hillary Clinton, gave it to the Justice
Department, and it was used on four
separate occasions to get a warrant
against somebody working with or as-
sociated with the Clinton campaign, all
hell would pay.
If a member of the Justice Depart-
ment told the investigators: Before you
get the warrant, the person who is in-
volved in collecting this information
hates Clinton; if there were exchanges
between an FBI agent and a Depart-
ment of Justice lawyer talking about
getting an insurance policy to make
sure that Hillary Clinton is never
elected and how much they hated
Trump, it would be front-page news all
over the world.
I don’t know what happened between
Trump and Russia, but we are about to
find out, and we will see if there is
something there, and we will use a
process to disclose it to the public.
But I ask the Democratic leader to
modify his request and allow my
amendment at the desk to make a sim-
ple change—and every Republican will
be with me, if you wonder about how
Republicans vote in the House—that
this resolution be modified calling for
the Attorney General to appoint a spe-
cial counsel to investigate Department
of Justice misconduct in the handling
of the Clinton email investigation and
in the handling of the FISA warrant
process as it relates to warrants ob-
tained on Carter Page and to publicly
release the results of those investiga-
tions—be agreed to consistent with
law. I ask that the resolution to be
modified in accordance with this.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Will the
Senator so modify his request?
Mr. SCHUMER. Reserving the right
to object, Mr. President, I am deeply
disappointed in my good friend from
South Carolina. This amendment ap-
pears to be a pretext for blocking this
very simple, noncontroversial resolu-
tion. Four hundred-twenty Members of
the House voted for it. Congressman
JIM JORDAN, a friend of the President’s,
voted for it. Congressman DEVIN
NUNES, a friend of the President’s,
voted for it.
This resolution should pass the Sen-
ate in the blink of an eye. I have abso-
lutely no idea why a Member of this
body would object to this basic level of
transparency, whatever their concern
on other issues.
My friend from South Carolina says
the report ought to be made public.
Let’s not stand in the way for other
issues. He is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee. He can deal with that sepa-
rately but not block this resolution.
So let the American people know
that the Republican majority in the
Senate—at least for now—is blocking a
resolution that the Mueller report
should be made public. I hope my
friend from South Carolina and all of
my Republican colleagues take time
over the recess to thinks about this.
We are going to be back here asking for
consent again when the Senate is back
in session, and my Republican col-
leagues ought to think long and hard
before they block this resolution again.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Is there an objection to the original
request?
Mr. GRAHAM. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I thank
Senator SCHUMER. I appreciate getting
this done quickly.
I will just say, there are a lot of
Americans, including JIM JORDAN, who
believe that what happened in 2016 with
the Clinton email investigation and the
FISA warrant against Carter Page
showed corruption at the highest level
of the government. I agree that there
are more than smoking guns here.
There is overwhelming evidence that
somebody outside the political system
should look into. I can’t find anybody
much on the other side who seems to
give a damn about that.
Mueller, I get. Mueller has been al-
lowed to do his job. We are going to
find out what he found pretty soon, as
much as we can, consistent with the
law. But I am not going to give up on
the idea that we are just going to look
at one problem of 2016. I have been
talking to myself for the most part;
now I have a forum.
I will introduce a resolution asking
you to do a simple thing. Ask some-
body outside of politics—a special
counsel—to look into how in the world
the system got so off track, to use a
document prepared by foreign agent,
paid for by the Democratic Party, col-
lected in Russia, to obtain a warrant
against an American citizen that is
garbage to this day? How in the world
could the investigation get so off track
that the two people in charge of it
openly talked about making sure that
there was an insurance policy against
Trump if he won and openly espoused
support for Clinton. How do you inter-
view Clinton the way she was inter-
viewed? Any American out there who
did what Secretary Clinton did you
would see in jail now.
The question I want to know is, Does
anybody other than me believe that? I
don’t ask you to believe me. We let
Mueller look at all things Trump re-
lated to collusion and otherwise. Some-
body needs to look at what happened
on the other side and find out if the
FBI and the DOJ had two systems—one
supporting the person they wanted to
win and one out to get the person they
wanted to lose.
Some of these people have been fired
for lying, and it is now time to have a
special counsel look at all things 2016,
not just Trump.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
2019 IDITAROD
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
am here on the Senate floor today to
talk about a sporting event—an event
that captures the attention of people
not only in my State of Alaska but
around the country and around the
globe. I am talking about the ‘‘Last
Great Race on Earth.’’ It is a pretty
fancy, big, and impressive title for
what really happens—the ultimate
challenge with man, woman, and
dogs—a 1,100-mile sled dog race from
Anchorage to Nome, up north.
I will share with you all a picture
that was taken at 3:39 a.m. on Wednes-
day morning, March 13. Obviously, it is
the middle of the night. I know every-
body thinks that it is always dark in
Alaska this time of year, but it is not.
This is at 3:39 a.m. on Wednesday,
March 13. It is pitch dark. You can’t
really see it in this picture, but the
snow is coming down. The wind is
blowing. It is pretty dang cold. Tem-
peratures are down in the teens, but
you have some wind blowing. So it gets
your attention.
What you are seeing here is Front
Street in Nome, AK. At 3:30 in the
morning, the street is packed. It is
lined with hundreds of people who are
cheering loudly. These are people from
all over the country—fans, friends, and
family who have come from across
Alaska and flown into Nome. Some of
them chartered an aircraft coming out
of the YK Delta. They flew into Nome,
a community of about 4,000 people, to
witness this moment—to witness the
moment that Pete Kaiser, born and
raised in Bethel, AK, came into town
with eight dogs in harness and came
down the street to cross the finish line
and claim victory as the 2019 Iditarod
champion. He was just 12 minutes
ahead of the defending champion, Joar
Leifseth Ulsom, who is originally from
Norway but who now lives with us in
Alaska. This is probably one of the
closest Iditarod races we have in some
time.
Jessie Royer, of Fairbanks, a friend
of my family and a great lady, came in
at third place.
When you talk about the ‘‘Last Great
Race’’ of 1,100 miles across extraor-
dinary terrain, Pete Kaiser took 9
days, 12 hours, and 38 minutes to com-
plete this—9 days, 12 hours, and 38 min-
utes.
Think about how you cover 1,100
miles on the back of a dog sled. Typi-
cally, with dogs, when you are moving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.049 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1886 March 14, 2019
really fast, you are moving along at
about 10 miles an hour, but you are
going over some incredible terrain, and
you are doing this not just between 8
and 5, but you are running the trail
over the course of days and weeks.
Here is Pete Kaiser. He has just
crossed the finish line. He has his
hands thrown up in the air in celebra-
tion. He hugged his family. He wiped
the tears from his face. It is one of
those moments that he will always, al-
ways remember. The feeling is prob-
ably hard to fathom, but for Pete, a
young man who grew up in Western
Alaska, somebody who is often referred
to as an encyclopedia of racing knowl-
edge, somebody who is known in his
community for his hard work and dedi-
cation, somebody who has now won the
Kuskokwim 300 four times in a row—a
race qualifier for the Iditarod—and for
his family and his extended family who
supported him, who cheered him along
the way, and for so many in the com-
munity of Bethel who joined together,
who chartered an aircraft to get there
in time to see him finish and celebrate
this achievement, this truly is a vic-
tory that is an accomplishment and an
extraordinary highlight to a remark-
able career.
So the excitement that comes when
you are finishing a grueling race like
this and when you and your team come
across the line is something that you
really have to experience to under-
stand. There is fatigue, but there is
great excitement with the accomplish-
ment.
It is not just the accomplishment of
the musher, because the musher would
still be sitting back in Willow were it
not for these extraordinary animals,
which truly, truly live to run. They
live to do this race and others like it.
Nothing beats the finish here. I don’t
have very many opportunities where I
can actually be at the finish because
you never quite know when it will be.
Usually, race winners come in between
8, 9, or 10 days. So if you are starting
on a Sunday, usually we finish during
the week when we are back here work-
ing. So I haven’t had the opportunity
to be on that end, but I have had mul-
tiple opportunities—in fact, this is an
opportunity that I do not miss—to be
at the front end and to be at the start
of the Iditarod.
So just 9 days prior, this is me and
Pete Kaiser at the start of the Iditarod.
He is looking pretty fresh in this pic-
ture. He probably didn’t look quite so
fresh after 9 days on the trail.
We gathered in downtown Anchorage
with 52 mushers—that is how many
mushers ran this year—and all of their
teams. With the rules change this year,
there were 14 dogs to a team at the
start. But you are in downtown An-
chorage, and you not only have your
teams who are going to be moving you
through the first day of the ceremonial
start but you have your other dogs. So
you have dogs, you have mushers, you
have people, and you have kids. It is
like a carnival atmosphere.
This year I had an opportunity to do
something I have never done before,
and that was to drive the tag sled of
one of our four-time champions, Jeff
King.
During the ceremonial start, you go
from Anchorage to Campbell Creek
Airstrip. It is an 11-mile portion of the
trail. I can say that I did 1 percent of
the Iditarod by driving on the back of
this tag sled. I didn’t have the dogs di-
rectly in front of me, but I still had to
operate the brake on the sled. I still
had to lean into the curves and still
had the opportunity to experience just
the majesty of the dogs in front of you
and the way the mushers communicate
with their team.
The Iditarod is a race like none
other, and it is perhaps made so be-
cause of the challenge of the terrain
that this race goes through. The jour-
ney that led the mushers through these
valleys and across these mountain
ranges is hard. It is challenging. The
weather is not unlike the terrain. It
was up, and it was down. We had areas
along the trail where it was raining,
and then we had areas where we had
freezing temperatures. You had wind.
You had snow. You had ice. So when
you think about how much work it is
to get through the burled arch, it is
really a tremendous accomplishment
to be able to say that you have com-
pleted this race.
As we speak, there are still dozens
more mushers and their teams that are
out along that trail working to com-
plete it.
You might think that this is some-
thing where there is a significant prize,
and that is what motivates people.
Well, if you are successful and you fin-
ish the Iditarod, you will be able to
claim $1,149. Your dogs are going to eat
up that money pretty quickly. Most of
this is so much for the love of mushing
and the love of the animals.
People always ask: Well, how hard is
it? What kind of challenges do the
mushers encounter along the way?
It is everything from encounters with
animals, whether it is a moose along
the trail—and we have seen some bad
outcomes from that—to just physical
obstructions along the trail.
Richie Diehl of Aniak ran smack into
a tree—literally, smack into a tree. He
hit his face on the trail near Nikolai.
He said he was kind of cruising along
and he had his head turned. It was still
dark. He looked forward and, bam, he
ran into a tree.
He probably could have ducked if he
noticed it, but he didn’t, and then he
was kind of knocked off. He did an all-
out sprint to chase his team down and
dove to catch his sled. He lined up the
dog team, again got everybody orga-
nized, grabbed some toilet paper, some
wet wipes, and started mushing down
the trail as he wiped the bleeding off
his skin. You are just not stopping.
You are not stopping for yourself. For
your dogs, if your dogs are injured, you
absolutely stop.
Anja Radano of Talkeetna fell in a
large hole in the ice crossing the infa-
mous Dalzell ice hole. While she is
making her way across the frozen
river, her sled slipped into the hole.
She falls into the water, and she in-
jured her ribs and her legs. She had
been having a little bit of a struggle
along the trail, but she said she would
not have been able to get out of the
waterhole there without the help of her
dog team.
Then there is Linwood Fiedler, who
was on his way to Nikolai, and his en-
tire dog team got separated from the
sled when his biner broke, but, fortu-
nately for him, there was a fellow
musher coming up, Mats Pettersson,
who shows up on the trail shortly after.
He helped him get his whole team, and
potentially—potentially—saved the
lives of these dogs.
You have trail conditions that are
hard this year, and part of the trail,
quite honestly, because of the warmer
weather we have seen, they were what
we call tusset, which is just mounds of
hard, matted grass in just kind of a
bumper strip all the way going
through. It is very hard on sleds. There
were a couple of mushers who took 30
hours to go through this one stretch,
and they ultimately decided enough
and scratched.
You have the terrain. You also have
the fact that you are going all out for
days on end, and limited sleep has its
effect. We heard some comments from
Lance Mackey, who is a four-time
Iditarod champ. He was talking about
how he was imagining things on the
trail, a little bit of a hallucination,
seeing and hearing things that aren’t
there, thinking he was hearing people
say, ‘‘Go, Lance,’’ as he was making
the run between Rohn and Nikolai. You
have to do all you can to keep yourself
awake because you are in the back of a
sled.
Remember, you are not sitting down.
This is not all comfy and cozy for 1,100
miles. You are standing on the back of
the sled. Oftentimes, you are running
along or walking along behind. You are
helping your dogs move through. You
have to constantly replenish yourself
and your dogs, and that means taking
trail snacks and drinking nonstop.
There is always a question about
what everybody eats. Aliy Zirkle, who
has come in fourth, attributes her diet
to rolled oat bars made out of peanut
butter, banana, sesame seeds, and
other things because they are easy, and
they don’t get frozen. You have to
think about things like how do I eat
while I am still moving and things
don’t get frozen.
They do have an opportunity to get
some good meals. They get wined and
dined, if you will, when they get to a
checkpoint. When you are in a village,
you have the kids come out, and every-
body is looking for autographs. They
want to say hello to them. They want
to find out what position everybody is
in, but they also, oftentimes, get a
warm meal like a stew, but before the
humans eat—before the mushers eat,
the dogs have to eat. The dogs have to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.051 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1887
March 14, 2019
be cared for. The dogs have to be taken
care of first because life on the trail is
taking care of the dogs. They are mak-
ing sure they have a warm and a com-
fortable place to rest, are fed, and they
are watered. They are checked out by
the veterinarians.
This is one thing that is pretty inter-
esting. People think, well, you are just
going into a town. A lot of these
places, it is not a town. It is not like
you can just go to a tap and fill up
your dog bowls for water for your dogs.
Now, your dogs have been on the trail
for several hours. They are thirsty.
They have been eating snow along the
way, but they are thirsty. They need to
be hydrated.
If you are out on the trail and you
have 14 or 15 dogs, what do you do? You
melt snow or you melt ice. Where is
the stove? Well, you have your little
camp stove that you have in the back
of your sled. Think about it. You are
sleep-deprived, you are hungry, you are
tired, but you have to take care of your
dogs first. You put your straw down to
bed them down. You check their feet,
and you put dry booties on them. You
melt the water. You have to then heat
up the dog food that has been dropped
along the way in places where you
know your team is going to be stop-
ping. You could be working with your
dogs for a good hour before you can
even start thinking about yourself and
how you satisfy your hunger, your
thirst, your sleep.
It is a pretty amazing race. Again, I
am just in awe of the animals. I am in
awe of the mushers. I am also in awe of
the many, many, many, many people
who come to be volunteers for it, this
race. Most people have no idea what it
takes to pull off a race like this, but I
am told there are more volunteers who
help us at this race than any other or-
ganized race like this in the country.
What we have is a volunteer Air
Force, if you will. Those stashes of food
I talked about, those don’t get there by
accident. There is no road to drive
them by, so you have pilots who will
volunteer to take whatever it is, straw
for bedding or big coolers and con-
tainers of food, to the various check-
points. They will drop them off so they
are pre-positioned out there, but those
guys, they are all volunteers.
At the banquet in Nome, at the end
of this week, the people who put on the
banquet are volunteers not necessarily
from Nome but from all over the coun-
try. The last time I was up there, I
went back in the kitchen to say thank
you to the men and women who were
working there. They all had their little
nametags, and they say where they are
from. There is a whole group who was
from a little town in Florida. They had
all taken a week’s vacation from their
work to come up and just be there for
the Iditarod, to welcome the mushers
coming in.
I asked: What do you do here as a
volunteer? They said: We are in charge
of rolls and butter. Ok. But this is how
much of a commitment they have made
to this race. They have been doing it
for years. They are a group who just
comes up from Florida, they cash in
their miles, they take leave from work,
and this is where they take their vaca-
tion because they realize this is such
an extraordinary happening. You have
volunteers from all over the country,
from Canada, and the communities
along the trails.
The veterinarians. There are 50 vet-
erinarians along the trail because at
the checkpoints, the dogs must be
checked by the vets. We are going to
take care of those animals and make
sure—so you have veterinarians; you
have dog handlers; and you have vet
techs who come from across the Na-
tion. They are there volunteering their
time to be at this extraordinary event.
Again, the pilots who fly to drop the
supplies are volunteers. They act as
race judges. They aid in the event of an
injury or a lost dog. The list goes on
and on and on in terms of those who
volunteer. Ultimately, it simply could
not happen were it not for the volun-
teers who put the extra mile in to
make it happen.
So today we are celebrating and ac-
knowledging the efforts of all those
who pitched in to help, the fans who
cheered on the teams throughout the
race, the communities that served as
hosts along the way, and all the
mushers and all their teams who put
their hearts and put their souls into
this really tough but incredible expedi-
tion.
We, in Alaska, are all congratulating
Pete Kaiser on his win. He is the only
musher from the Yukon-Kuskokwim
Delta since the inaugural Iditarod back
in 1973. He is the first Yup’ik Iditarod
champion in the history of the Iditarod
race. He is an incredibly humble man.
He is a great role model. He is an inspi-
ration to his community, and I know
they are all exceptionally proud.
After he won, Pete said he hoped his
victory would be celebrated not just by
the Yup’ik people within his region but
by all Native people throughout Alas-
ka.
So, Pete, I think, we are here to tell
you that today, Alaskans in the west-
ern part of the State, all over the
State, including as far away as Wash-
ington, DC, are all celebrating and rec-
ognizing you and your extraordinary
canine athletes.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
SUNSHINE WEEK
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, we
are celebrating an important week in
our system of self-government. This
week is known as Sunshine Week. For
the last 14 years, advocacy groups,
good government watchdogs, and
media organizations have joined forces
to observe the importance of trans-
parency and freedom of information.
With transparency and freedom of in-
formation, there is more account-
ability in government. As a long-time
champion of an open, accessible gov-
ernment, I speak today in support of
those enduring principles.
Sunshine Week coincides each year
with March 16. That is the day one of
the Nation’s Founding Fathers and
fourth President of the United States
was born. That person was James
Madison, widely known as the Father
of the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights.
From his writings in the Federalist
Papers, it might be said that he was
the architect who framed our system of
checks and balances. Madison believed
all powers of the government are de-
rived of, by, and for the people. That is
what brings me to the floor today.
The public has a right to know what
their government is doing and how
their government is spending the tax-
payers’ dollars. What is more, the
American people owe a debt of grati-
tude to our fellow citizens who bravely
come forward, often at great profes-
sional risk, to report wrongdoing in
government. We ought to expect that
out of government employees or any
fellow citizen who knows something is
wrong.
I am here today to talk about a ray
of sunlight coming from the Defense
Department. More specifically, I want
to alert you about the whistleblower
hotline managed by the inspector gen-
eral. Once in a while, good news comes
out of that Department.
I spend a lot of time on government
oversight. Congressional oversight is
part of our constitutional assignment
to protect the power of the purse and
to ensure that the laws we pass are
faithfully executed.
My sights are set quite often on the
Pentagon when it comes to oversight.
The U.S. military is the strongest and
mightiest in the world. Our men and
women in uniform put their lives on
the line to protect our sacred freedoms.
Each of us should be fighting tooth and
nail to make sure that they have the
resources they need. I am not, however,
talking about writing blank checks; I
am talking about making sure that de-
fense dollars are spent wisely.
The Pentagon shoulders a strategic
and vital mission for America but is by
no means infallible—not by a long
shot. As with almost any bureaucracy
or corporate organization, its work-
place culture dictates that each indi-
vidual should go along to get along,
and that is not how it should be. Insti-
tutional foot-dragging at the Pen-
tagon, for example, has hampered ef-
forts to root out sexual misconduct.
You read about it too often. A systemic
bookkeeping system has plagued the
Department of Defense for decades.
Nevertheless, I keep pressing the
Pentagon to fix this fiscal mess. Every
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.053 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1888 March 14, 2019
dollar lost to waste, fraud, and abuse is
a dollar that could be put to better use
for our men and women in uniform for
better housing, as just one example.
I learned long ago that one of the
best ways to expose wrongdoing is by
listening to whistleblowers. Whistle-
blowers are the ones who have their
noses and ears to the ground day in and
day out. They are patriots doing their
job in reporting wrongdoing. These pa-
triots know the difference between
right and wrong. So when their good
conscience compels them to come for-
ward, we should hear them out, and we
need to encourage others to do the
same.
Whistleblowers within the Defense
Department help weed out improper
payments, procurements, fraud, and
other unethical schemes and mis-
behaviors that come at taxpayers’ ex-
pense and the expense of military pre-
paredness.
As cofounder and cochairman of the
Whistleblower Protection Caucus, I
lead efforts from Capitol Hill to
strengthen protections and raise
awareness for what is often an uphill
battle for whistleblowers. In the rigid
command of the U.S. military, the ci-
vilian workforce and uniformed mem-
bers of the military are trained to fol-
low protocol and to respect the chain
of command. Instead of receiving a pat
on the back for exposing wrongdoing,
too many of these whistleblowers face
retribution and reprisal. I often say
they are treated like skunks at a pic-
nic.
That brings me to the DOD whistle-
blower hotline, a vital conduit for
whistleblower complaints. Once again,
there is some good news about DOD
and whistleblowers and trying to im-
prove things there in a November IG
report. It shows the huge backlog of
tips has been reduced. You could say
that it is a glimmer of hope in an oth-
erwise swamp of secrecy.
You see, the report also exposes the
bad news. The playbook of Federal au-
thority—defend, delay, and deny—is
alive and kicking. From fiscal years
2013 to 2018, the Office of the Inspector
General found the number of reports
tripled. It also showed the number of
reprisal complaints doubled.
The report found that 350 Defense De-
partment officials, most of them in the
branches of the Armed Forces, retali-
ated against and sought to intimidate
195 whistleblowers. I can’t speak about
195 cases, but I will bet, in many cases,
many higher-ups in the chain of com-
mand would be embarrassed, and that
is why it wasn’t reported, and that is
why these folks were retaliated
against. This tells me also that higher-
ups who are accused of retaliating
against whistleblowers are going
unpunished.
Consider, about 85 percent of the peo-
ple who reported wrongdoing and faced
professional punishment or personal
embarrassment are still waiting for
any remedy according to this inspector
general report.
This sends a very unsubtle signal to
whistleblowers: Blow the whistle at
your own risk. When the top dogs who
dish out retribution go unpunished,
and some are even promoted, the mes-
sage to the rank and file is loud and
clear: Blow the whistle at your own
risk.
Nearly 2 years ago, I came to the
floor of the Senate to sound the alarm
on this very subject. At that time I
shared statistics from a 2016 IG report.
It listed 406 hotline cases that had been
open for more than 2 years. Nobody is
in a hurry to do anything about wrong-
doing in the Defense Department when
things like that can accumulate. More
than half of those 406 cases—246 cases
to be exact—had been open for more
than 1,000 days, and some had been
lying around for 4 years. So back when
I gave that speech a couple of years
ago, I noted that the IG’s office wasn’t
moving the needle, despite increases in
personnel and money in the IG’s office.
The workforce-to-workload ratio was
mismatched. Cases were adding up, and
the corrosive workplace culture within
the IG was a festering sore. Allegations
of tampering with investigations and
whitewashing cases were tarnishing
the reputation of the premier whistle-
blower oversight unit at the Pentagon.
Congressional watchdogs, like myself,
should not have to watch the Pentagon
watchdogs to keep oversight on track.
As I said, there is some good news.
Things seemed to turn the corner when
Acting Inspector General Fine recog-
nized the antics of a bureaucracy run
amuck.
I am glad to see a ray of sunlight
coming from the IG’s office. However,
we still aren’t out of the woods.
I want to thank those in the IG’s of-
fice who are toiling to reduce this hot-
line backlog; however, the DOD needs
to step up and face the music. DOD
needs to own these failures in letting
retaliators off the hook.
Failing to hold these folks account-
able is a huge slap in the face to those
in the Department who are performing
their responsibilities every day with
dedication and excellence, being patri-
otic people, blowing the whistle, and
pointing out waste, fraud, and abuse.
It also happens to be a slap in the
face of the taxpayers. It is telling these
patriotic whistleblowers: Thanks but
no thanks. Feel free to disclose your
report, but we may press the mute but-
ton after processing the claim.
Make no mistake about it—the hot-
line becomes meaningless if whistle-
blowers lack confidence in the system.
They will stop calling and stop report-
ing waste, fraud, and abuse.
My advice to Inspector General Fine
is this: Put some mustard on it, and
add some hot sauce while you are at it.
Get down to the brass tacks, and rec-
ommend disciplinary action against
those who retaliate against patriotic
people pointing out waste, fraud, and
abuse.
In closing, I would like to share a tip
with the Department of Defense. This
U.S. Senator will continue shining the
spotlight on waste, fraud, and abuse at
the Pentagon—and, of course, else-
where—and I will continue advocating
for whistleblowers with every tool at
my disposal.
As an Iowa farmer, I know what a
load of manure smells like. I am also
very aware of why farmers make hay
when the sun shines, and that is a very
good lesson for good government. Sun-
shine helps hold government account-
able to the American people, and that
is why we celebrate Sunshine Week
this week and every year now for, I
think, 14 years—because Sunshine
Week promotes openness and trans-
parency in government.
That is why the Congress passed the
Physician Payments Sunshine Act in
2010. This law establishes a mandatory
national disclosure program in which
drug and medical device manufacturers
report payments to prescribers in
teaching hospitals. However, it appears
that some parties may not be dis-
closing this information.
That is why, in addition to what I
told you about overseeing things in the
Defense Department, it is necessary to
call out HHS and CMS to be forth-
coming about whether opportunities
exist for us to work together to
strengthen the law where all these
things aren’t being reported as they
should be. Sunshine is the best dis-
infectant.
FREE TRADE
Mr. President, lastly, I would like to
talk about free trade for a minute. I
am calling on the administration to
promptly remove the section 232 tariffs
on steel and aluminum imports from
Canada and Mexico. This will help
clear the path for the United States-
Mexico-Canadian Agreement to be rati-
fied in all three countries. These tariffs
and their retaliation are having a nega-
tive impact on Americans. The United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is
supposed to be a free-trade agreement,
but we don’t have free trade with these
tariffs in place.
As chairman of the Committee on Fi-
nance, I look forward to helping the
President with this important task.
And a little bit of advice for the Presi-
dent would come this way: I think he
imposed tariffs on Mexican and Cana-
dian steel and aluminum because he
didn’t think they were going to nego-
tiate and said that is why he put the
tariffs on. Obviously they negotiated in
good faith because the President said
he has a very good agreement. I happen
to agree that he has a very good agree-
ment. So wouldn’t you think, then,
that the tariffs ought to come off?
Somebody down at the White House
recently told me: Well, you can’t
conflate the tariffs on aluminum and
steel with the USMCA agreement.
Well, don’t tell me you can’t conflate
them when you conflate them when
you say to the other side: If you don’t
negotiate, we are going to put these
tariffs on.
I think there is a clear path to get-
ting this done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.056 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1889
March 14, 2019
The President is concerned about the
transshipment of steel from China,
through Canada, into the United
States, which obviously wouldn’t be
fair. They are concerned, as well, about
surges in exports to the United States.
I think he would find Prime Minister
Trudeau very open to receiving assur-
ances that if the House of Commons in
Canada moves ahead with approval of
it, these tariffs would go off. At the
same time, I think they will get assur-
ances from the Canadian Government
that they will make sure trans-
shipment from China, through Canada,
to the United States won’t happen and
that surges in exports won’t happen as
well.
If we can get the Canadian Govern-
ment to approve this agreement, it
seems to me it is going to be a lot easi-
er to get through the Congress of the
United States. And I think that just as
soon as Mexico changes some labor
laws they promised they would change
to make labor more fair and less unfair
to the American worker, I think the
Mexican Senate will approve this
agreement. But time is a factor here
because Canada has to get this all done
before they adjourn in June for their
October elections.
It seems to me that when the Presi-
dent says he has a good agreement—
and there is a certain amount of anx-
iety out there about all these trade ne-
gotiations that are going on—we could
get this thing settled pretty fast and
reduce that anxiety, and we could
make sure we enhance our economy
more than the fine policies of this
President, through taxes and through
deregulation, have already improved
the economy and keep it growing.
I would ask the President to consider
moving this as fast as he can and get
off of this business of negotiating trade
and tariffs for quotas because that is
not much better for the United States
and not much better even for the Cana-
dians, and it isn’t going to satisfy the
Canadians that they can move ahead
before their election.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, Demo-
crats have put forward proposals claim-
ing that it is the duty of the Federal
Government to create a so-called Green
New Deal.
My colleagues have listed a variety
of goals, like net-zero greenhouse gas
emissions within a decade, good jobs
for all, and a sustainable environment
and infrastructure, but they haven’t
proposed any specific policy changes or
a roadmap of how to reach these goals.
The reason for that is clear. As the res-
olution’s authors have said, these pro-
posals would require a massive Federal
Government takeover and reorganiza-
tion of our country as a whole. We are
learning that what it would take to ac-
complish these goals is unrealistic. We
should call the Green New Deal exactly
what it is—an attack on what should
be the limited role of the Federal Gov-
ernment in our lives.
I want to address Nebraskans di-
rectly, and I want to analyze a few de-
tails that are part of this resolution’s
attack on rural America, which is an
attack on Nebraska because our
State’s economy and the well-being of
all Nebraska families is reliant on a
strong agricultural economy.
One section of the resolution speaks
to our Nation’s agriculture sector.
Properly managing our environment is
important, and Nebraska’s agricultural
producers who feed and fuel our world
know better than anyone about con-
servation and stewardship. This is a se-
rious issue, and it deserves a serious
and a sensible approach.
The early fact sheets that came out
describing the Green New Deal offered
mind-boggling proposals, like elimi-
nating cows. This idea was so ridicu-
lous that the Democrats balked and
distanced themselves from this con-
cept. In fact, while the Nebraska
Democratic Party announced their sup-
port for the Green New Deal, Nebras-
ka’s Democratic Party chairman re-
cently apologized to fellow Nebraskans
for the anti-agriculture ideas that are
included in it.
Tom Vilsack, a former Iowa Gov-
ernor and former Secretary of Agri-
culture in the Obama administration,
was spot-on with his comments about
the greatness of American agriculture
during a congressional hearing in 2016.
He pointed this out:
Every one of us that’s not a farmer, is not
a farmer because we have farmers. We dele-
gate the responsibility of feeding our fami-
lies to a relatively small percentage of this
country. Eighty-five percent of what’s grown
in this country, it’s raised by 2- to 300,000
people. It is an incredible freedom that we
take for granted . . . and rather than being
criticized, we ought to be celebrating these
people . . . and we don’t do it enough.
I could not agree more. Nebraska
farmers and ranchers feed a hungry
world. Our soybeans, dairy, wheat,
pork, eggs, and potatoes reach family
dinner tables around the globe.
Nebraska is known as the Beef State.
We are the No. 1 exporter of beef in the
Nation. In 2017, Nebraska exported well
over $1 billion in beef products. Our
beef producers are known around the
globe as the best at what they do.
Here are some facts.
Fact: According to a recent USDA re-
port, beef production accounts for only
3.3 percent of all greenhouse gas emis-
sions in the United States.
Fact: According to a Smithsonian ar-
ticle published in 2016, wetlands ac-
count for nearly 22 percent of global
methane emissions. I would suggest to
you that no one wants to eliminate
wetlands.
Nebraska ag producers care for our
land and our water, and our cattle pro-
ducers already have elevated levels of
water regulations. For example, our
feedlots must maintain a livestock
waste control facility permit from the
Nebraska Department of Environ-
mental Quality. Existing and new live-
stock operations must be inspected by
the DEQ to determine if a waste con-
trol facility construction permit is re-
quired. Our producers also need a na-
tional pollutant discharge elimination
system permit if their livestock facil-
ity has the potential to discharge into
surface waters.
As I said, Nebraska is the Beef State,
but we are also the Cornhuskers, and
the two go hand-in-hand. Nebraska is a
top producer of corn, and that corn is
fed to livestock and establishes Ne-
braska as the No. 1 cattle on feed State
in the Nation. Our producers do this
while conserving our natural re-
sources—our land and our water.
Consider this: The Omaha-based
Lindsay Corporation recently devel-
oped a tool that connects to the center
pivot irrigation system and remotely
controls the water based on the irriga-
tion prescription for each individual
field. The company estimated that
since the tool was launched, it has
saved over 21 billion gallons of water,
over 34 million kilowatt hours of en-
ergy, and over 57 million pounds of car-
bon dioxide emissions globally.
Nebraska also has a unique system of
23 natural resources districts. The dis-
tricts are managed by locally elected
boards. The boards have tax levy au-
thority to support conservation efforts
tailored to each of the district’s unique
needs. Through this process, we regu-
late our groundwater more than any
other State, and it is an effective use
because our local communities are the
ones in control. No other State in the
country has this advanced form of
ground and surface water management.
Because of the adoption of more effi-
cient irrigation systems by our corn
and soybean producers, water applied
in three natural resources districts in
Nebraska has decreased significantly,
conserving our water.
Nebraska’s producers also take good
care of our soil. Our natural resources
districts can require landowners to
manage soil erosion on their land and
connect them with cost-sharing pro-
grams to help implement effective soil
management practices. The use of
planned grazing on our ranches—my
family’s ranch included—improves the
amount and the diversity of grass
available to cattle, and cattle improve
the overall health of that rangeland.
The Natural Resources and Conserva-
tion Service estimated that soil ero-
sion and planned or, as some call it, ro-
tational grazing practices have saved
over $80 million in annual damages
from flooding or erosion. Additionally,
with the adoption of no-till farming
practices in row crop production, com-
bined with cover crops like millet and
rye, we have vastly improved the
health of our soil.
The bottom line is this: Ag producers
are conservationists who utilize proven
practices to manage our land and water
resources.
As more facts have come out, we
have learned that the cost alone of the
Green New Deal is astounding. One es-
timate by the American Action Forum
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.057 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1890 March 14, 2019
found that if the deal were fully en-
acted, it would cost anywhere from $51
trillion to $93 trillion over the next 10
years—$93 trillion. That is a staggering
expense that our families, our busi-
nesses, and our economy simply cannot
afford.
One of the main goals of the Green
New Deal is a mandate to move our
country to 100 percent renewable en-
ergy and achieve carbon neutrality
within the next decade. The American
Action Forum’s estimate warns that
households would shoulder this weight
with up to a nearly $4,000 increase in
their yearly electric bills, and if our
country relied on foreign energy, those
rates would skyrocket even higher.
Higher electricity bills are a concern
for me, and they are a concern for Ne-
braska families, but my colleagues
across the aisle don’t seem fazed. Re-
call that in 2009, former President
Obama said he was willing to have the
average household pay nearly $1,600 per
year to reduce carbon emissions by 15
percent. Hard-working families said
then that they could not afford that.
So how can people now afford up to
spending $4,000 a year?
Attempting to move to all renewable
energy would also mean shutting down
every nuclear, coal, and natural gas
plant. According to some estimates,
this would cost Nebraskans and the
American people $7 trillion by 2030. If
we eliminated the use of natural re-
sources like gas, oil, and coal produc-
tion, the United States would rely on
other countries to supply our energy.
The United States leads all G20 coun-
tries with the best record of carbon di-
oxide emissions reduction in recent
years. From 2005 to 2017, the United
States reduced carbon dioxide emis-
sions by 862 million tons—a 14-percent
cut. Comparatively, in the same time-
frame, India increased its carbon emis-
sions by 1.3 billion tons, and China
raised its emissions by 4 billion tons—
a 70-percent increase. Though China is
moving toward plants with higher effi-
ciency, China already accounts for
nearly half of the global coal consump-
tion.
The Green New Deal misses a crucial
point: The United States is already
making voluntary changes to lead the
world in reducing carbon dioxide emis-
sions. A line from the 16-page resolu-
tion reads that the Green New Deal
would include ‘‘overhauling transpor-
tation systems in the United States to
remove pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions.’’
A background document released by
the Green New Deal’s author called for
a plan to build out high-speed rail and
replace every combustion engine vehi-
cle at a scale where air travel stops be-
coming necessary. As chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee’s Trans-
portation and Safety Subcommittee, I
welcome all commonsense, bipartisan
proposals to improve our infrastruc-
ture so that we can provide the safe
and efficient movement of our people
and our goods.
Yet the Green New Deal is a far cry
from a commonsense proposal. The call
to replace every combustion engine
wouldn’t just hurt our Nation’s infra-
structure; it would mean scrapping our
personal cars and the commercial
trucking industry. It would mean
eradicating planes and air travel alto-
gether. Don’t forget that we are a Na-
tion of vastness. Light rail is not fea-
sible. It is not feasible in many parts of
our country, and people in sparsely
populated areas have a right to receive
services, participate in commerce, and
have transportation options that meet
their unique needs.
In closing, as the activists continue
to push their wish lists, I am going to
continue to focus on addressing those
regulations that make life difficult for
families and businesses in Nebraska.
Excessive regulations cause our ag pro-
ducers to focus on mountains of paper-
work instead of on ways to innovate
and implement new practices so they
can continue being good stewards of
our land. The key to finding realistic
solutions in addressing carbon dioxide
emissions lies in the hands of Amer-
ica’s innovators, not in the heavy hand
of the Federal Government through an
economic takeover.
In moving forward, I am going to
work on updating the aging infrastruc-
ture that our citizens rely on in their
everyday lives. I am going to fight for
policies that will help to promote eco-
nomic growth and help families across
this country provide for their loved
ones, and I will continue to highlight
the good work our farmers and ranch-
ers are doing to protect our air, water,
land, and wildlife.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
THE GREAT LAKES
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise to
speak on the need to vigorously protect
the Great Lakes.
The Great Lakes are a vital natural
resource not only for my home State of
Michigan but for the entire Nation. In
addition to providing drinking water
for nearly 40 million people, the Great
Lakes serve as an economic engine for
our entire country. This freshwater
system is associated with adding near-
ly $6 trillion to the U.S. GDP while
supporting millions of jobs. It accounts
for more than 50 percent of all U.S.-Ca-
nadian border trade and facilitates the
shipping of over 200 million tons of
cargo every year.
But ask Michiganders what the Great
Lakes mean to them, and they will tell
you that they are a great deal more
than simply a source of commerce; the
Great Lakes literally define our State.
They not only define our borders but
who we are among the States. We are,
in fact, the Great Lakes State. We love
to spend our summers on or near the
lakes and, in the process, form the fam-
ily memories that we hold for a life-
time. It is no exaggeration to say that
for Michiganders, the Great Lakes are
part of who we are. It is in our DNA.
Over the years, Democrats and Re-
publicans alike have understood the
importance of maintaining the vitality
of the Great Lakes. That is why, in
2004, President George W. Bush signed
an Executive order to promote a Great
Lakes regional collaboration.
Then, in 2010, President Obama built
on his predecessor’s leadership. In his
very first budget request, President
Obama called for the funding for what
would later be known as the Great
Lakes Restoration Initiative. The
GLRI today remains a bipartisan suc-
cess story because it provides a plat-
form for Federal Agencies and States
to come together to address the biggest
threats to our lakes.
Let me give you a few examples of
the positive impact that the GLRI has
had in my home State of Michigan.
In Deer Lake, near Ishpeming in the
Upper Peninsula, GLRI funds were used
to successfully eliminate mercury run-
off that had contaminated local wild-
life. Over just a few years, these funds
were used to restore the natural habi-
tat, and as a result, Deer Lake was no
longer considered a Federal area of
concern.
Thanks to the support of the GLRI,
sufficient improvements were made to
prevent runoff at the Gloede Drain in
the Clinton Township of Macomb Coun-
ty, reducing flooding and soil erosion
in an area that many Michiganders call
home.
In Detroit, 30 steel mills, oil refin-
eries, chemical manufacturers, and
other plants discharged pollutants into
the Detroit River for decades. However,
with the implementation of $89 million
worth of GLRI waterway cleanup
projects, the water quality has im-
proved, and Detroit now has a thriving
and vibrant downtown RiverWalk that
has become an economic engine for
small businesses.
There is no question the GLRI is a
proven success and has been vital to
Michigan’s environment and to Michi-
gan’s economy. Yet, despite this suc-
cess, President Trump, once again, is
willing to risk the health, safety, and
vitality of one of the world’s largest
freshwater systems by proposing a 90-
percent cut—yes, a 90-percent cut—to
the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.
Unfortunately, this is not the first
time. Since taking office, President
Trump has tried to eliminate the fund-
ing to the Great Lakes Restoration Ini-
tiative each and every year he has been
in office, and each and every year, Con-
gress has united in a bipartisan way to
ensure that this critical program re-
mains funded.
Let me be clear. Slashing GLRI fund-
ing would have an immediate and cata-
strophic impact on the future of the
Great Lakes and on both the nearly 10
million Michiganders whom I represent
as well as our entire country.
I again ask my Senate colleagues for
their support. The Great Lakes are not
just a Michigan priority; they are not
just a regional priority—they are truly
a national priority. Fully funding the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.059 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1891
March 14, 2019
Great Lakes Restoration Initiative
should never be a partisan issue—it is
simply the right thing to do—and, to-
gether, we can protect the Great Lakes
for this generation and future genera-
tions to come.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session for the
consideration of Calendar No. 67; that
the nomination be confirmed; that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate; that no
further motions be in order; that any
statements related to the nomination
be printed in the RECORD; and that the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nomination considered and con-
firmed is as follows:
IN THE COAST GUARD
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Coast Guard Re-
serve to the grade indicated under title 10,
U.S.C., section 12203(a):
To be captain
Alexander C. Foos
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 97, 104, and 106.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of William I. Althen, of Vir-
ginia, to be a Member of the Federal
Mine Safety and Health Review Com-
mission for a term of six years expiring
August 30, 2024. (Reappointment);
Marco M. Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky,
to be a Member of the Federal Mine
Safety and Health Review Commission
for a term of six years expiring August
30, 2024; and Arthur R. Traynor III, of
the District of Columbia, to be a Mem-
ber of the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Review Commission for a term
expiring August 30, 2022.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Althen,
Rajkovich, and Traynor nominations
en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 91 and 96.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Rodney Hood, of North Caro-
lina, to be a Member of the National
Credit Union Administration Board for
a term expiring August 2, 2023, and
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, to be a
Member of the National Credit Union
Administration Board for a term expir-
ing April 10, 2021.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Hood and Har-
per nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 59.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Donald W. Washington, of
Texas, to be Director of the United
States Marshals Service.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statements relating to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Washington
nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 63, 64 and 66.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Janice Miriam Hellreich, of
Hawaii, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring Janu-
ary 31, 2024; Robert A. Mandell, of Flor-
ida, to be a Member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring Janu-
ary 31, 2022; and Bruce M. Ramer, of
California, to be a Member of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for a term expir-
ing January 31, 2024.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Hellreich,
Mandell, and Ramer nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO CLIFF KELLEY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in 1963,
Leonard and Phil Chess, brothers and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.060 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1892 March 14, 2019
owners of the legendary Chess Records,
bought WHFC-AM 1450 with the goal of
promoting their company. They re-
named the station WVON—Voice of the
Negro. This tiny station with just 1,000
watts of power became a broadcast hit,
giving a voice to marginalized commu-
nities in the Chicagoland area. Much of
their airwaves were filled with music,
but politics wasn’t far behind.
WVON hosted legends like Robert
Kennedy, Jackie Robinson, and Rev-
erend Martin Luther King. King used
this station as his bully pulpit to orga-
nize around housing and job discrimi-
nation. It was Reverend Jesse Jackson
that called into the station to report of
King’s assassination. When riots hap-
pened on Chicago’s West Side, it was
the disc jockeys of WVON that went
out with loudspeakers on trucks to
calm things down. WVON is a station
of history and eventually became more
than the Voice of the Negro, it became
the Voice of the Nation.
For the last 25 years, my friend Cliff
Kelley has been a true voice of the Na-
tion as host on WVON. He has been the
‘‘Governor of Talk Radio’’ and formed
a bond with listeners that is rare. At
the end of this month, he will be step-
ping down from his daily show, but he
will continue hosting his weekly Amer-
ican Heroes show for veterans. Cliff
will serve as a community ambassador
and a regular fill-in host.
Cliff is a native of Chicago’s South
Side and a graduate of Englewood High
School, Roosevelt University, and John
Marshall Law School. Before hosting
his show, Cliff served 16 years as a
former 20th Ward Chicago alderman.
He championed racial equality, was an
elected school board member, and a
pioneer for LGBTQ rights. He fought
for LGBTQ rights long before it was
popular.
Cliff continued as a voice of con-
science and community as well as a
radio personality. He covered stories
that weren’t in the papers. His show
helped launch countless people’s ca-
reers, including Senators, Governors,
congressmen, business leaders, and a
President. A former colleague you may
remember guest hosted his show quite
a few times when Cliff went on vaca-
tion. He was a State Senator at the
time, but Barack Obama always had
time for Cliff’s show as a guest or a
host.
Luckily for us, Cliff’s voice is still
going to be heard today. We honor
Cliff’s decades of daily radio work, but
we know that, as long as there are bat-
tles for justice to be waged, Cliff Kelley
will lead the fight.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–04 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Spain for defense articles and serv-
ices estimated to cost $107 million. After this
letter is delivered to your office, we plan to
issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–04
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Spain.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $89.6 million.
Other $17.4 million.
Total $107.0 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Eight (8) Assault Amphibious Vehicles,
Personnel (AAVP–7A1) Reliability, Avail-
ability, Maintainability/Rebuilt to Standard
(RAM/RS).
Two (2) Assault Amphibious Vehicles,
Command (AAVC–7A1) Reliability, Avail-
ability, Maintainability/Rebuilt to Standard
(RAM/RS).
One (1) Assault Amphibious Vehicle, Re-
covery (AAVR–7A1) Reliability, Availability,
Maintainability/Rebuilt to Standard (RAM/
RS).
Non-MDE: Also included are Enhanced
Armor Applique Kits (EAAK), spare and re-
pair parts, tools and test equipment, tech-
nical data and publications, training and
training material, U.S. Government and con-
tractor technical and logistics support serv-
ices, and other related elements of logistics
and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (SP–P–
LHO).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
March 14, 2019.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Spain—Assault Amphibious Vehicles
The Government of Spain has requested to
buy eight (8) Assault Amphibious Vehicles,
Personnel (AAVP–7A1) Reliability, Avail-
ability, Maintainability/Rebuilt to Standard
(RAM/RS); two (2) Assault Amphibious Vehi-
cles, Command (AAVC–7A 1) Reliability,
Availability, Maintainability/Rebuilt to
Standard (RAM/RS); and one (1) Assault Am-
phibious Vehicle, Recovery (AAVR–7A1) Re-
liability, Availability, Maintainability/Re-
built to Standard (RAM/RS). Also included
are Enhanced Armor Applique Kits (EAAK),
spare and repair parts, tools and test equip-
ment, technical data and publications, train-
ing and training material, U.S. Government
and contractor technical and logistics sup-
port services, and other related elements of
logistics and program support. The total es-
timated program cost is $107 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by improving the security of a NATO
ally which is an important force for political
stability and economic progress in Europe. It
is vital to the U.S. national interest to assist
Spain in developing and maintaining a
strong and ready self-defense capability.
The proposed addition of these eleven (11)
vehicles to Spain’s fleet will afford more
flexibility and maintain Spain’s expedi-
tionary capability to counter regional
threats and continue to enhance stability in
the region. Spain currently operates 19 As-
sault Amphibious Vehicles (AAVs) and is
proficient at using them to their fullest ca-
pability. Spain will have no difficulty ab-
sorbing these additional vehicles.
The proposed sale of this equipment will
not alter the basic military balance in the
region.
The principal contractor will be BAE Sys-
tems, York, Pennsylvania, and Anniston,
Alabama. There are no known offset agree-
ments proposed in connection with this po-
tential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tive in Spain.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–04
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The vulnerability to countermeasure in-
formation for Assault Amphibious Vehicles
is considered classified SECRET.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the hardware
and software elements, the information
could be used to develop countermeasures or
equivalent systems which might reduce sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
3. A determination has been made that the
Government of Spain can provide substan-
tially the same degree of protection for the
sensitive technology being released as the
U,S. Government. This sale is necessary in
furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and
national security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the Government of Spain.
f
NOMINATION OF GENERAL JOHN
ABIZAID
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to correct the record
concerning statements the Senate ma-
jority leader made yesterday morning,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.012 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1893
March 14, 2019
in which he claimed that GEN John
Abizaid’s nomination to be Ambassador
to Saudi Arabia ‘‘is being held up.’’
Allow me to ease the majority lead-
er’s concerns. Far from being ‘‘held
up,’’ the Foreign Relations Committee,
with my full support, has been ex-
tremely diligent in taking up General
Abizaid’s nomination; he appeared on
the very first committee nominations
hearing of the 116th Congress, and his
nomination is advancing through the
regular committee process expedi-
tiously. I look forward to his approval
by the committee and, hopefully, a
speedy confirmation. As with all nomi-
nees, his final confirmation is under
the control of the majority leader.
I am concerned that the majority
leader has an inaccurate view of the
nominations situation facing the For-
eign Relations Committee. He stated
yesterday that ‘‘if we want to solve
problems in the Middle East, through
diplomacy, we’ll need to confirm dip-
lomats.’’ Unfortunately, we cannot
confirm diplomats that we do not have.
It took 23 months before the Trump
administration bothered to nominate
General Abizaid, leaving a gaping hole
in our diplomatic posture to Saudi Ara-
bia and the region. It is possible that
this failure of leadership is the result
of the President believing that his son-
in-law, Jared Kushner, is capable of
doing this job from the White House.
Regardless of the reason, Saudi Ara-
bia is not an isolated example. It took
even longer, over 2 years, before the
Trump administration nominated a
candidate to be U.S. Ambassador to
Turkey. We are now 26 months into the
Trump administration, and we still
lack ambassadorial nominees to crit-
ical countries like Egypt, Pakistan,
and our close ally, Jordan. This failure
is a reckless abdication of a constitu-
tional responsibility that is essential
to projecting American power abroad.
There is only one person responsible
for this failure: President Trump; yet
the majority leader appears to be curi-
ously oblivious to that fact.
Let me be clear: When the committee
has received nominations, we have
worked with efficiency and diligence to
vet and advance those nominations. I
have devoted my time and staff re-
sources to ensure this because of my
strong belief that the State Depart-
ment, USAID, and other foreign affairs
agencies must be appropriately staffed.
We cannot promote our foreign policy,
protect American citizens, and advo-
cate for American businesses without a
robust diplomatic corps. In the 115th
Congress, the committee reported 169
nominations. I reject any assertion
that we have not done our part to en-
sure that the State Department is ap-
propriately staffed.
All too often, however, the com-
mittee has received nominations late
or not at all.
There is, unfortunately, there is an-
other severe problem that we cannot
ignore with regard to this administra-
tion’s nominees. Delays in advancing
Trump political nominees is largely
due to poor vetting by this administra-
tion. When the President nominates
and renominates individuals with re-
straining orders for threats of violence,
who engaged in incidents that should,
frankly, mean they never should have
been nominated, or made material
omissions, sometimes on a repeated
basis, in their nomination materials,
the Foreign Relations Committee must
do our due diligence on behalf of the
American people. Someone has to. My
staff and I have had to spend signifi-
cant additional time on vetting be-
cause of the White House’s negligence
or incompetence.
The United States and our allies con-
tinue to face tremendous challenges
around the world. We must continue to
lead on the international stage and
work in collaboration with inter-
national partners to achieve our shared
security goals, but to have our dip-
lomats in place, they must be nomi-
nated in a timely fashion and vetted
properly. Despite the majority leader’s
confusion on this issue, that is the real
hold-up here.
f
S.J. RES. 7
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise to express a concern over the
Rubio amendment to the Sanders-Lee
joint resolution, S.J. Res. 7, which was
passed by voice vote in yesterday’s de-
bate.
The Rubio amendment attempts to
make clear that nothing in the joint
resolution is intended or may be inter-
preted to affect any intelligence or
counterintelligence activity or inves-
tigations relating to threats in or from
Yemen, which involves the collection,
analysis, or sharing of intelligence
with any coalition partner.
I do not believe that it was the inten-
tion of the authors of S.J. Res. 7 to re-
strict these intelligence activities per
se. I believe it was Senator RUBIO’s in-
tention to make sure that that legiti-
mate intelligence activities, as speci-
fied, were not affected.
However, my concern springs from
the full implications of what ‘‘sharing
intelligence’’ means. I assume it is
meant to share useful intelligence the
United States may acquire about the
intentions, activities, characteristics,
and other information about, for exam-
ple, the Houthis or Al Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula. That is entirely ap-
propriate.
But if the intelligence being shared is
actually information that allows Saudi
Arabia or other members of the Saudi-
led coalition to specifically target and
conduct military operations, such as
airstrikes, against specific sites in
Yemen, then that would get perilously
close to the U.S. being directly in-
volved in hostilities in Yemen, includ-
ing under the War Powers Resolution.
Section 8 of the War Powers Resolu-
tion considers U.S. Armed Forces to be
‘‘introduced into hostilities’’ if, among
other activities, members of the U.S.
Armed Forces ‘‘coordinate’’ the activi-
ties of foreign forces. Arguably, ena-
bling Saudi forces to target specific
sites in Yemen could constitute ‘‘co-
ordination’’ under the War Powers defi-
nition.
Why is this important? It is impor-
tant, first, to preserve the scope of ap-
plication of the War Powers Resolu-
tion, which the Congress enacted to
rein in the power of the executive
branch to make war anywhere under
any circumstances.
Second, the more direct assistance
U.S. Armed Forces provide to the
Saudi-led coalition, the closer they are
associated with the actions of those
countries. That could lead to shared li-
ability in those activities if and when
those activities lead, inadvertently or
otherwise, to atrocities on the ground
in Yemen.
Again, I do not believe that it was
the intention of the author of this
amendment to create the legal space
for this to occur. I would advise the De-
partment of Defense and the appro-
priate intelligence agencies to be mind-
ful of this issue and be cautious about
what intelligence information is shared
and for what purposes it is used.
f
H.R. 269
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the following
letter be printed in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
March 14, 2019.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Senate Majority Leader,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL, I am requesting
to be consulted before the Senate enters into
any unanimous consent agreements or time
limitations regarding H.R. 269, the Over-the-
Counter Drug Safety, Innovation, and Re-
form Act. I further request that this legisla-
tion not be incorporated into any larger leg-
islative vehicles that the Senate as a whole
may consider until the concerns I describe
below are fully addressed.
This legislation streamlines the outdated
over-the-counter (OTC) drug approval proc-
ess at the U.S. Food and Drug Administra-
tion (FDA)—a process originally developed
in 1972. Specifically, the legislation allows
the FDA to approve OTC versions of pre-
scription drugs administratively, rather
than going through the lengthy notice-and
comment-rulemaking procedures under the
Administrative Procedure Act. The legisla-
tion also encourages more innovation and in-
vestment in the OTC space by providing an
18-month market-exclusively component
that rewards a return on investment for new
OTC drugs. The 18-month market exclusivity
period is crucial to creating a thriving OTC
drug market; however, H.R. 269 does not con-
tain adequate oversight mechanisms to en-
sure that this exclusivity provision is not
abused by some OTC drug manufacturers
after the reforms of H.R. 269 are imple-
mented by the FDA.
Although the legislation encourages more
innovation and investment in the OTC space,
it does not include any conditions under
which an OTC drug manufacturer would for-
feit eligibility for the 18-month exclusivity
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.013 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1894 March 14, 2019
period. For example, there is no ‘‘failure to
market’’ provision for OTC drug approvals in
the legislation similar to the provisions ap-
plying to generic drugs under Hatch-Waxman
to prevent OTC drug manufacturers, who can
otherwise enter the market, from refraining
to do so (a practice called exclusivity park-
ing).
Anti-competitive behavior—like exclu-
sivity parking—has disrupted the generic
drug industry. In fact, exclusivity parking
has become common in the context of patent
litigation settlement agreements where pro-
prietary drug manufacturers pay generic
drug manufacturers to delay entering the
market, allowing proprietary drug manufac-
turers to charge higher prices for long peri-
ods of time (i.e. pay-for-delay settlements).
The Federal Trade Commission has esti-
mated that this behavior costs consumers
$3.5 billion per year as a result of higher
brand-name drug prices. And even though
the process for obtaining OTC drug approval
under H.R. 269 is more straightforward than
that for obtaining market approval for a ge-
neric drugs—anti-competitive behavior (e.g.,
exclusivity parking) may creep into the OTC
drug space if Congress fails to include suffi-
cient oversight mechanisms in the legisla-
tion to ensure adequate accountability and
effective competition.
Modernizing the OTC drug approval proc-
ess under H.R. 269 will benefit consumers and
advance the public health; however, H.R. 269
as currently drafted does not give the FDA
the necessary oversight tools to ensure ac-
countability in the OTC space. Including a
‘‘failure to launch’’ provision in H.R. 269—
that is, a mechanism that gives an OTC drug
manufacturer a reasonable amount of time
to bring an FDA approved OTC product to
market—will protect the incentive to inno-
vate and invest, while also providing ade-
quate accountability. Indeed, to ensure effec-
tive competition in the OTC space, Congress
must provide the FDA with the necessary
oversight tools to prevent abuse of the OTC
regulatory approval process under the re-
forms of H.R. 269.
Thank you for protecting my rights as a
Senator to weigh in on this legislation,
which has not gone through regular order
during my time as a member of the Com-
mittee to which this legislation has been re-
ferred to in the 116th congress.
Sincerely,
MIKE BRAUN,
United States Senator.
f
RECOGNIZING THE AMERICAN
LEGION
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I con-
gratulate the American Legion on its
100-year anniversary.
On March 15, 1919, the first American
Legion caucus was held. Later that
year, Congress established the Amer-
ican Legion as a federally chartered
corporation with purposes that include
‘‘to cement the ties and comradeship
born of service; and to consecrate the
efforts of its members to mutual help-
fulness and service to their country.’’
The original membership to the Amer-
ican Legion was extended to those who
served in the Armed Forces during
World War I, which had ended a few
months before the organization was
started. Over the past 100 years, its
membership has grown to nearly 2 mil-
lion, with more than 12,000 posts.
I recently joined fellow Senators in
cosponsoring S. 504, the Let Everyone
Get Involved in Opportunities for Na-
tional Service, or LEGION, Act, which
would enable the American Legion to
establish its own membership criteria
instead of requiring an act of Congress
to change eligibility requirements. In
this legislation, we recognize the
American Legion ‘‘provides invaluable
services to its members and supports
the community of veterans who sac-
rificed in service of the United States,’’
and it ‘‘has aided, assisted, and com-
forted the families of the men and
women who were called to serve or vol-
unteered to serve . . .’’
I join many others across our coun-
try, including local posts, in recog-
nizing the American Legion’s century
of representation of American vet-
erans. In Idaho alone, there are ap-
proximately 9,750 Idaho members of the
American Legion as of 2018.
Thank you to the American Legion
and its membership for your out-
standing service to our country and
America’s veterans. Congratulations
on 100 years of achievements on their
behalf. I look forward to our continued
work ahead to ensure veterans have ac-
cess to the highest quality services
worthy of their remarkable dedication
to our Nation.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF FUELCELL
ENERGY
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today I wish to recognize FuelCell En-
ergy as it celebrates 50 years of dedica-
tion to the research and delivery of
clean, affordable fuel cell solutions.
Founded in 1969 by Dr. Bernard Baker
as the Energy Research Corporation,
the company has grown exponentially
over the past half century. Starting as
a highly regarded research company fo-
cused on electrochemical battery and
fuel cell technologies, FuelCell Energy
is now a worldwide leader in its field.
The Danbury, CT, based company
provides efficient commercial fuel cell
solutions for the supply, recovery, and
storage of energy. Fifty years of tire-
less commitment, diligent effort, and
creative innovation has resulted in
SureSource power plants located in
three continents. These power plants
have produced over 8.7 million mega-
watt-hours of ultraclean power.
FuelCell Energy invests its work in
all steps of the process: recognizing a
need, developing a solution, and then
implementing a solution in an eco-
nomic and sustainable manner. The
breadth of their successes and the crit-
ical level of forward progress in the
realm of clean energy are truly impres-
sive. Thanks to their remarkable ef-
forts, FuelCell Energy enables univer-
sities, commercial enterprises, govern-
ment entities, and other industries the
opportunity to make clean choices in a
more affordable and accessible way
than ever before.
As they mark this important anni-
versary, the company continues to
look toward the future, searching for
even more effective options that will
benefit our planet and its people.
Though there is still more progress to
be made, FuelCell Energy stands at the
forefront of past innovation and future
possibility.
Devoted to creating energy solutions
that will make it easier for more and
more industries to use clean power,
FuelCell Energy is a positive model for
modernization and advancement in this
vital field. I applaud the accomplish-
ments of FuelCell Energy’s visionary
leaders and highly skilled and dedi-
cated workers and hope my colleagues
will join me in congratulating FuelCell
Energy on 50 years of excellence.∑
f
REMEMBERING EUBA HARRIS-
WINTON
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the contributions of
Euba Harris-Winton to Fort Smith and
the State of Arkansas. She passed
away on Monday, March 11, at the age
of 95 and leaves behind a large, loving
family and countless Arkansans whom
she helped and inspired throughout her
life.
Euba was born on June 26, 1923, to
Rev. Daniel Haven Edward Harris and
Martha T. Hill Harris in Cotton Plant,
AR. Her school years were spent in
Fort Smith where she attended Howard
Elementary School and Lincoln High
School. After attending Westark Com-
munity College and Philander Smith
College, she returned to Fort Smith to
raise a family with her husband, Ells-
worth Daniel Winton. They had 10 chil-
dren: five girls and five boys.
She was a devout member of the
United Methodist Church, and her
great faith and passion for service led
her to become the executive director of
the Mallalieu Community Development
Center in 1970. The center’s mission
was to strengthen the outreach min-
istry of the church. As part of that
mission, she worked on efforts to fight
poverty, improve substandard housing,
increase educational opportunities, and
personally provide help to anyone who
asked. She led the organization for 25
years and improved the lives of count-
less Arkansans in the process.
Throughout her life, she met with
leaders at all levels of government to
advocate for others and served on nu-
merous boards and councils. In an arti-
cle in the Lincoln Echo several years
ago, Bennie Mae Ware Gunn remarked
that, ‘‘Euba is known and respected for
being both relentless and resourceful in
her pursuit of justice and opportunities
for others. However, she is also known
for her sensitivity and compassion.’’
That is certainly true of my experi-
ence with her and that of so many oth-
ers she influenced or helped over the
years. I was honored to know Mrs.
Euba and will personally miss her ex-
ample, kindness, advice, and willing-
ness to help others.
She was a rare individual who never
stopped fighting to improve the world
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.021 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1895
March 14, 2019
around her and was an inspiration to us
all. I know her legacy lives on through
her extended family and in every per-
son she touched with her compassion,
strength, and wisdom.∑
f
RECOGNIZING NORTHSIDE HIGH
SCHOOL’S DUAL BASKETBALL
STATE CHAMPIONSHIPS
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate
my alma mater, Northside High School
in Fort Smith, AR, on winning 6A
State championships in both boys and
girls basketball this year.
The high school basketball season
was as exciting as ever in the Natural
State, but folks in my hometown of
Fort Smith were especially enthusi-
astic when tournament time came
around because both the boys’ and
girls’ teams had advanced to
postseason play. Both squads have won
multiple State titles, and the fans were
eager to add another this season.
Both the boys’ and girls’ teams ad-
vanced through their respective tour-
naments and made it to the finals,
overcoming challenges from talented
teams from across Arkansas. The
championship games were incredibly
competitive, and each came down to
the wire.
The Lady Bears faced off against
Bentonville in their State title game.
Led by Jersey Wolfenbarger’s 21-point
effort, including the game-winning bas-
ket as time expired, the team ended
the contest on a 7–0 run to claim the
school’s seventh girls basketball State
championship since 1999. Each of those
titles was won under the direction of
coach Rickey Smith. The team ended
the season ranked 17th in the Nation in
USA Today’s high school rankings.
Not to be outdone, the Northside
Grizzlies boys’ team also had a memo-
rable championship game that included
a half-court basket to end the first
half. Facing off against Bryant High
School, Northside led for most of the
contest. After Bryant tied the game
late in the fourth quarter, Northside
came up with a three-point basket and
held onto the lead until the end of reg-
ulation. Junior center Jaylen Williams’
play—he scored 20 points and grabbed
16 rebounds—earned him the MVP des-
ignation. The championship was the
11th in school history. The Grizzlies
were led by coach Eric Burnett who be-
lieved his team was built for a good run
in the tournament because of the dif-
ficulty of its nonconference schedule.
This was their third consecutive cham-
pionship game appearance, having won
a championship in 2017 as well.
Needless to say, it was a very special
day in Hot Springs, where the title
games were played, and in the Fort
Smith community, as each team
brought home State championships in
the same year for the second time since
2007.
As a former Northside Grizzly and
someone with family roots in Fort
Smith, I am proud that both the Griz-
zly and Lady Bears basketball teams
earned the highest achievement pos-
sible in our State. To do so in the same
year is an even greater testament to
the dedication and passion of the play-
ers, coaches, student body, administra-
tors, and the fans of these terrific
teams.
Congratulations again to the Grizzly
and Lady Bears squads on this tremen-
dous accomplishment, and I look for-
ward to celebrating with them,
Northside High School, and the Fort
Smith community in the near future.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO COURTNEY NOBLE
∑ Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor a great Ohioan, Courtney
Noble, for her heroic actions this past
December.
Ms. Noble works as a direct support
professional for New Avenues To Inde-
pendence, Inc.—NATI—in Mentor, OH.
NATI is a social service organization
that provides support and aid for peo-
ple with disabilities and special needs
in the greater Cleveland area.
On the morning of December 20, 2018,
Ms. Noble was the only one on duty
while tending to three male residents
in the Heisley group home. As she was
helping the residents get ready for
their day, she heard popping and crack-
ling and sounds coming from the ga-
rage. When she opened the garage door,
she discovered that a fire had started
and was rapidly growing out of control.
Without hesitation, Ms. Noble sprang
into action. She immediately evacu-
ated all three residents from the house,
one of whom was in a wheelchair.
Throughout the whole situation, Ms.
Noble’s biggest concern was the safety
and well-being of her residents. Even as
her car was engulfed in flames, she
calmly escorted the three men to safe-
ty at a nearby child daycare center and
called 911.
Thank you, Courtney Noble, for your
courageous actions and for all the work
you do as a caregiver. It is because of
your quick thinking and fearlessness
that three Ohioans are alive today. I
am sure that my Senate colleagues will
join me in honoring Ms. Courtney
Noble for her exemplary acts.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SEAN O’DONNELL
AND IVANNA FRITZ
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the distinct honor of rec-
ognizing Sean O’Donnell and Ivanna
Fritz of Flathead County for their re-
cent induction into the Montana Fo-
rensic Educations Association Coaches
Hall of Fame.
Sean O’Donnell, a lifelong Montanan
has spent the majority of his life in
Kalispell, MT. Mr. O’Donnell attended
Carrol College in Helena, MT, and it
was here that Sean fell in love with
coaching high school speech and de-
bate. After graduation, he went back to
Kalispell to teach and went on to join
the Flathead coaching staff in 1992.
Over the past 22 years, Mr. O’Donnell
has gone on to win 10 State champion-
ships, as well as winning Class AA
coach of the year twice.
Ivanna Fritz, from eastern Montana,
fell in love with speech and debate in
college, which she took as a require-
ment for a communication degree. Ms.
Fritz then went on to coach high
school speech in debate, joining the
Flathead coaching staff in 1995, until
taking up a teaching position at Gla-
cier High School in 2007, where she
teaches and coaches today. Ivanna has
won a total of 13 State championships,
along with winning Class AA coach of
the year.
I congratulate Sean O’Donnell and
Ivanna Fritz, for their remarkable
journey of 20 years of teaching and
coaching in Flathead County. I look
forward to seeing their continued suc-
cess.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DR. CURTIS JONES,
JR.
∑ Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, today I
wish to congratulate one of my con-
stituents, Dr. Curtis Jones, Jr., on
being named the 2019 National Super-
intendent of the Year. Dr. Jones is an
outstanding public servant, and I am
honored to commend him in the Senate
today.
A native of Barnesville, GA, Dr.
Jones is the son of a schoolteacher and
a preacher. Prior to becoming an edu-
cator himself, Dr. Jones graduated
from the U.S. Military Academy at
West Point and served over 20 years in
the Army, retiring as lieutenant colo-
nel. Upon retirement from the Army,
Dr. Jones began his career in education
as a JROTC instructor before becoming
a high school principal, assistant su-
perintendent, and later superintendent
of Griffin-Spalding County Schools.
Dr. Jones joined his current school
district, Bibb County Schools, as super-
intendent in 2015. Under Dr. Jones’
leadership, the school district has been
completely turned around, and the
graduation rate has increased by more
than 20 percent. Dr. Jones has brought
the Macon-Bibb County community to-
gether for a common cause, and it has
been a joy to see the school district’s
progress as a result of his leadership
and service to those students.
Throughout this entire process, Dr.
Jones has repeatedly recognized the
teachers, principals, and students in
his school district for their contribu-
tion to this award. He has also attrib-
uted his success to the love and sup-
port of his family. Dr. Jones has truly
made his State and country proud, and
I congratulate him and his family on
this high honor.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO RICK BLOCKER
∑ Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor a lifelong champion of
the American labor movement, Mr.
Rick Blocker, president of the Metro
Detroit AFL-CIO, on the occasion of
his retirement. As a member of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.019 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1896 March 14, 2019
U.S. Senate, it is both my privilege and
honor to recognize Mr. Blocker for his
lifetime of service and contributions
that have strengthened our community
and State.
Rick Blocker has been a tireless ad-
vocate for his brothers and sisters in
labor throughout his career. From 1987
to 2013, he served as the secretary-
treasurer and executive assistant to
the president of the United Food and
Commercial Workers, UFCW, Local
Union 876 in Madison Heights, MI. In
this role, he was responsible for man-
aging the finances and expenditures of
the over 19,000 members of Local 876.
Rick also served as a trustee for the
Michigan UFCW Unions and Employers
Health and Welfare Fund where he
maintained membership services,
helped develop community programs,
and assisted in contract negotiations.
Since 2013, Rick has served as presi-
dent of the Metro-Detroit AFL-CIO.
The Metro Detroit AFL-CIO is com-
prised of approximately 120 affiliated
labor organizations that represent
nearly 70,000 members. In this capac-
ity, Rick serves as the lead voice of
these affiliates and members to the
public and the State AFL-CIO, rep-
resenting the interests of working peo-
ple throughout the region. Through his
work, Rick continually advocates for
economic and social justice and the
betterment of workers lives, not just in
metro Detroit, but across the State of
Michigan.
Rick has spent his career and life in
support of his community, organized
labor, civil rights, and faith. Through-
out his life, he has been involved with
many organizations, including the
Trade Union Leadership Council, the
Coalition of Black Trade Unionists, the
Coalition of Labor Women, is a found-
ing member of the Change to Win Fed-
eration, a life member of the NAACP,
and a trustee and executive director of
New Bethel Baptist Church in Detroit.
Rick also serves on Detroit Mayor
Mike Duggan’s Mayor’s Workforce De-
velopment Board, with the mission to
strive toward successful delivery of
workforce programs across the city of
Detroit.
Rick has spent his career in service
to others, his community, and his
brother and sisters in labor. I ask my
colleagues to join me today in hon-
oring my friend, Mr. Rick Blocker, for
his leadership in furthering the causes
of the organized labor movement and
for his many other contributions to the
metro Detroit region. I wish Rick and
his family health and happiness in the
years ahead.∑
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
ON MARCH 13, 2019
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 1. An act to expand Americans’ access
to the ballot box, reduce the influence of big
money in politics, and strengthen ethics
rules for public servants, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1617. An act to direct the Director of
National Intelligence to submit intelligence
assessments of the intentions of the political
leadership of the Russian Federation, and for
other purposes.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:15 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2761, and the order of the House of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Speaker appoints the
following Member on the part of the
House of Representatives to the Brit-
ish-American Interparliamentary
Group: Mr. HOLDING of North Carolina.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 36 U.S.C. 2302, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the United States
Holocaust Memorial Council: Mr.
ZELDIN of New York and Mr. KUSTOFF
of Tennessee.
At 1:09 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has agreed
to the following concurrent resolution,
in which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 24. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the re-
port of Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to Con-
gress.
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION SIGNED
At 3:32 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled joint resolution:
H.J. Res. 46. Joint resolution relating to a
national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
The joint resolution was subse-
quently signed by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 1. An act to expand Americans’ access
to the ballot box, reduce the influence of big
money in politics, and strengthen ethics
rules for public servants, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1617. An act to direct the Director of
National Intelligence to submit intelligence
assessments of the intentions of the political
leadership of the Russian Federation, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–589. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Reauthorization of Dairy Forward Pricing’’
((7 CFR Part 1145) (Docket No. AMS–DA–18–
0097)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–590. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Processed Raspberry Promotion, Research,
and Information Order; Termination of As-
sessments’’ ((7 CFR Part 1208) (Docket No.
AMS–SC–18–0093)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–591. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Mango Promotion, Research, and Informa-
tion Order; Amendment to Include Frozen
Mangos’’ ((7 CFR Part 1206) (Docket No.
AMS–SC–17–0002)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–592. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, the biennial report to Congress on stra-
tegic and critical materials requirements for
the National Defense Stockpile (OSS–2019–
0207); to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–593. A communication from the Senior
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of Fi-
nancial Research, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Ongoing Data Collec-
tion of Centrally Cleared Transactions in the
United States Repurchase Agreement Mar-
ket’’ (RIN1505–AC58) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 12,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–594. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Office
of Fossil Energy, Department of Energy,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘SPR Standard Sales Provi-
sions’’ (RIN1901–AB29) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–595. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Georgia; Emission
Reduction Credits’’ (FRL No. 9990–74–Region
4) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–596. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.026 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1897
March 14, 2019
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Massachusetts:
High Occupancy Vehicle Lanes’’ (FRL No.
9990–94–Region 1) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–597. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Quality Designation for the 2010
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Primary National Am-
bient Air Quality Standard; Arkansas’ Re-
designation of the Independence County
Area’’ (FRL No. 9990–00–Region 6) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–598. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Maryland;
Amendment to Control of Emissions of Vola-
tile Organic Compounds from Consumer
Products’’ (FRL No. 9990–86–Region 3) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–599. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; California; South Coast Se-
rious Area Plan for the 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS
Correction’’ (FRL No. 9990–89–Region 9) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–600. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Air Plans; 2008 8-Hour Ozone
Nonattainment Area Requirements; San Joa-
quin Valley, California; Correction’’ (FRL
No. 9990–90–Region 9) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–601. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Oklahoma: Final Authorization of
State Hazardous Waste Management Pro-
grams Revision’’ (FRL No. 9990–04–Region 6)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–602. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Domestic Listing,
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the
Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Threatened
Species Status for Trispot Darter’’ (RIN1018–
BC16) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–603. A communication from the Chief of
the Branch of Domestic Listing, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened
Wildlife and Plants; Listing the Scarlet
Macaw’’ (RIN1018–BC81) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
13, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–604. A communication from the Chief of
the Branch of Domestic Listing, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened
Wildlife and Plants; Removing Deseret
Milkvetch (Astragalus Deserticus) From the
Federal List of Endangered and Threatened
Plants’’ (RIN1018–BB41) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–605. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Domestic Listing,
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the
Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Threatened
Species Status for the Candy Darter’’
(RIN1018–BC44) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–606. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, an annual report on mining
activities as required by the Mine Improve-
ment and New Emergency Response Act of
2006; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–607. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the Commission’s fiscal year 2017 FAIR Act
inventory; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–608. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director of Regulation Policy and Man-
agement, Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Loan Guaranty: Revisions to
VA-Guaranteed or Insured Cash-out Home
Refinance Loans’’ (RIN2900–AQ42) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
8, 2019; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
EC–609. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Navigation and Navigable Waters; Tech-
nical, Organizational, and Conforming
Amendments’’ ((33 CFR Parts 100, 110, 147 and
165) (Docket No. USCG–2018–1049)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–610. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Re-
moval of Regulated Navigation Areas, Safety
Zone, Security Zones, and Special Local
Regulations Within District 7’’ ((33 CFR
Parts 100 and 165) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
0231)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–611. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Mill
Basin, Brooklyn, NY’’ ((RIN1625–AA09)
(Docket No. USCG–2018–1032)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on
March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–612. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Gulfport Grand Prix,
Boca Ciego Bay, Gulfport, FL’’ ((RIN1625–
AA08) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0059)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–613. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Corpus Christi Ship Channel,
Corpus Christi, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0128)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 13,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–614. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Firestone Grand Prix of St. Pe-
tersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0050)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–615. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Chicago Harbor, Navy Pier
Southwest, Chicago, IL’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2018–0713)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on
March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–616. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Cumberland River, Kentucky’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0127)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–617. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Oregon Inlet, Dare County, NC’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
1065)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–618. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Lower Mississippi River, Port
Gibson, MS’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0126)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–15. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to constitutional
conventions; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works:
Report to accompany S. 94, A bill to amend
the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration
Act to facilitate the establishment of addi-
tional or expanded public target ranges in
certain States (Rept. No. 116–8).
Report to accompany S. 310, A bill to
amend the Neotropical Migratory Bird Con-
servation Act to reauthorize the Act (Rept.
No. 116–9).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.027 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1898 March 14, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. CRAPO, Ms.
STABENOW, and Mr. KING):
S. 792. A bill to require enforcement
against misbranded milk alternatives; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 793. A bill to establish and strengthen
projects that defray the cost of related in-
struction associated with pre-apprenticeship
and apprenticeship programs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 794. A bill for the relief of Jose Alberto
Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez,
and Adilene Martinez; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 795. A bill for the relief of Alfredo
Plascencia Lopez; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 796. A bill for the relief of Ruben Mkoian
and Asmik Karapetian; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 797. A bill for the relief of Shirley
Constantino Tan; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 798. A bill for the relief of Esidronio
Arreola-Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian
Arreola, Nayely Arreola Carlos, and Cindy
Jael Arreola; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. 799. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to clarify that the Secu-
rity and Exchange Commission may seek
disgorgement and restitution as a result of a
violation of the securities laws, to establish
the statute of limitations for disgorgement
and equitable actions brought by the Com-
mission, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. ERNST,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. JONES, Mr. GARD-
NER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. ROBERTS, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. ROMNEY,
Mr. BROWN, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 800. A bill to establish a postsecondary
student data system; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 801. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX
of the Social Security Act to provide the
Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission with access to certain drug
payment information, including certain re-
bate information; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 802. A bill to amend part A of title IV of
the Social Security Act , and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. KING, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. ROBERTS, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. THUNE, Ms. SINEMA, and
Ms. MCSALLY):
S. 803. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to restore incentives for in-
vestments in qualified improvement prop-
erty; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 804. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972 to protect the cultural
practices and livelihoods of producers of
Alaska Native handicrafts and fossilized
ivory products, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. STABENOW, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. WYDEN, and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 805. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the processing of
veterans benefits by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, to limit the authority of the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recover
overpayments made by the Department and
other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the due process
accorded veterans with respect to such re-
covery, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 806. A bill to prohibit the collection of
data or information generated on the inter-
net; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. PAUL):
S. 807. A bill to require recipients of Fed-
eral funds to disclose information relating to
programs, projects, or activities carried out
using the Federal funds; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. COR-
NYN, and Ms. STABENOW):
S. 808. A bill to ensure that certain inci-
dents involving a covered employee that are
reported to the title IX coordinator at an eli-
gible institution of higher education have
been reviewed by the president of the insti-
tution and not less than 1 additional member
of the institution’s board of trustees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. WARREN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 809. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against
income tax for qualified conservation con-
tributions which include National Scenic
Trails; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 810. A bill to clarify the authority of the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration with respect to
post-storm assessments, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 811. A bill to provide for additional sup-
plemental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, for border secu-
rity and disaster relief; to the Committee on
Appropriations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ:
S. 812. A bill to modify the minimum allo-
cation requirement for the emergency solu-
tions grants program; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 813. A bill for the relief of Vichai Sae
Tung (also known as Chai Chaowasaree); to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 814. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access to dia-
betes outpatient self-management training
services, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. TESTER, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. BURR, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. JONES, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 815. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax
credit against income tax for the purchase of
qualified access technology for the blind; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 816. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act
to expedite approval of exports of small vol-
umes of natural gas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. SULLIVAN, Ms. ERNST, and
Mr. INHOFE):
S. 817. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to remove silencers from
the definition of firearms, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr.
KING):
S. 818. A bill to exempt certain 16- and 17-
year-old individuals employed in logging op-
erations from child labor laws; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 819. A bill to modernize the reporting re-
quirement under the Telephone Consumer
Protection Act of 1991; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. ERNST, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. BURR, Mr. LEAHY, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina):
S. 820. A bill to strengthen programs au-
thorized under the Debbie Smith Act of 2004;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. 821. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve
Act to prohibit certain member banks from
using discount window lending programs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 822. A bill to permit the televising of Su-
preme Court proceedings; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 823. A bill to require information shar-
ing with respect to the ownership of election
service providers; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. SCHUMER, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. SULLIVAN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Mr. TILLIS):
S. 824. A bill to increase the number of
States that may conduct Medicaid dem-
onstration programs to improve access to
community mental health services; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 825. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to require all States to take
steps to ensure domestic ownership and con-
trol of election service providers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.034 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1899
March 14, 2019
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MARKEY, and Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 826. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to modify the final rule re-
lating to flightcrew member duty and rest
requirements for passenger operations of air
carriers to apply to all-cargo operations of
air carriers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. STABE-
NOW, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 827. A bill to designate certain National
Forest System land and certain public land
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the
Interior in the States of Idaho, Montana, Or-
egon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilder-
ness, wild and scenic rivers, wildland recov-
ery areas, and biological connecting cor-
ridors, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. MARKEY, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND):
S. 828. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit oil-,
gas-, and methane hydrate-related seismic
activities in the North Atlantic, Mid-Atlan-
tic, South Atlantic, and Straits of Florida
planning areas of the outer Continental
Shelf, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
S. 829. A bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to award cooperative
agreements to improve care for individuals
with advanced illnesses, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 830. A bill to amend the Federal Work-
Study program to permit institutions of
higher education to use their Federal work-
study allocations for full-time, off-campus
cooperative education and work-based learn-
ing; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO, and Mr.
ENZI):
S. 831. A bill to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to reissue final rules relating to list-
ing the gray wolf in the Western Great Lakes
and Wyoming under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 832. A bill to nullify the Supplemental
Treaty Between the United States of Amer-
ica and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of
Indians of Middle Oregon, concluded on No-
vember 15, 1865; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, and Mrs. FISCHER):
S. 833. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to
participant votes on the suspension of bene-
fits under multiemployer plans in critical
and declining status; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 834. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to enhance the national strategy
for combating and eliminating tuberculosis,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. TILLIS):
S. 835. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the care provided by
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to newborn
children; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CRAPO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 836. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify the retirement
income account rules relating to church con-
trolled organizations; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. TILLIS):
S. 837. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to decrease the distance
away from home required for a member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces to be
eligible for the above-the-line deduction for
travel expenses; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 838. A bill to protect integrity, fairness,
and objectivity in decisions regarding access
to classified information, and for other pur-
poses; to the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
BROWN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 839. A bill to extend Federal Pell Grant
eligibility of certain short-term programs; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 840. A bill to allow Americans to earn
paid sick time so that they can address their
own health needs and the health needs of
their families; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. HIRONO, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 841. A bill to enhance the ability of Fed-
eral agencies to deliver relocation manage-
ment services to the Federal Government,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr.
HOEVEN):
S. 842. A bill to improve the mapping of
wireless broadband coverage; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
BLUNT, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 843. A bill to provide high-skilled non-
immigrant visas for nationals of the Repub-
lic of Korea, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. 844. A bill to allow for expedited ap-
proval of generic prescription drugs and tem-
porary importation of prescription drugs in
the case of marginally competitive drug
markets and drug shortages; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
REED, and Mr. WARNER):
S. 845. A bill to establish as United States
policy that, pending confirmation of the
Russian Federation’s continued compliance
with the New START Treaty, the United
States should extend the Treaty through
2026; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 846. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to limit certain rolling stock
procurements, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 847. A bill to prohibit certain entities
from using facial recognition technology to
identify or track an end user without obtain-
ing the affirmative consent of the end user,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. HARRIS:
S. 848. A bill to establish digital services in
State and local governments, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 849. A bill to provide for the inclusion on
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall of the
names of the lost crew members of the U.S.S.
Frank E. Evans killed on June 3, 1969; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 850. A bill to extend the authorization of
appropriations to the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs for purposes of awarding grants
to veterans service organizations for the
transportation of highly rural veterans; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BROWN, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 851. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Labor to issue an occupational safety and
health standard that requires covered em-
ployers within the health care and social
service industries to develop and implement
a comprehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. CASEY, Mr. RUBIO, and
Mr. ISAKSON):
S. 852. A bill to provide for the consider-
ation of a definition of anti-Semitism for the
enforcement of Federal antidiscrimination
laws concerning education programs or ac-
tivities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. Res. 109. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate on the March 31, 2019,
presidential election in Ukraine; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. Res. 110. A resolution keeping guns out
of classrooms; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.036 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1900 March 14, 2019
HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. UDALL, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. SMITH, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
ROSEN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. COONS, Mr. REED, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Ms. STABENOW, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. WYDEN,
and Mr. KAINE):
S. Res. 111. A resolution recognizing the
heritage, culture, and contributions of
Latinas in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. COONS, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. Res. 112. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the United States
condemns all forms of violence against chil-
dren globally and recognizes the harmful im-
pacts of violence against children; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. Res. 113. A resolution designating March
25, 2019, as ‘‘National Cerebral Palsy Aware-
ness Day’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. COONS, and
Mr. ISAKSON):
S. Res. 114. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of March 21, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Rosie the Riveter Day’’; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. Res. 115. A resolution recognizing the
REALTORS Land Institute on the occasion
of its 75th anniversary; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. STABENOW:
S. Res. 116. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Social Work Month and
World Social Work Day on March 19, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. Res. 117. A resolution designating March
22, 2019, as ‘‘National Rehabilitation Coun-
selors Appreciation Day’’; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. JONES, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
MURPHY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. KAINE, Mr. RUBIO,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. WICKER, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. WARNER, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. ROUNDS, and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. Res. 118. A resolution recognizing the
importance of paying tribute to those indi-
viduals who have faithfully served and re-
tired from the Armed Forces of the United
States, designating April 18, 2019, as ‘‘Mili-
tary Retiree Appreciation Day’’, and encour-
aging the people of the United States to
honor the past and continued service of mili-
tary retirees to their local communities and
the United States; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
SULLIVAN):
S. Res. 119. A resolution supporting the
goals of World Tuberculosis Day to raise
awareness about tuberculosis; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 105
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 105, a bill to amend title X of the
Public Health Service Act to prohibit
family planning grants from being
awarded to any entity that performs
abortions, and for other purposes.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 151, a bill to deter crimi-
nal robocall violations and improve en-
forcement of section 227(b) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, and for other
purposes.
S. 164
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 164, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to remove the
prohibition on eligibility for TRICARE
Reserve Select of members of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces
who are eligible to enroll in a health
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code.
S. 210
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 210, a bill to amend the
Tribal Law and Order Act of 2010 and
the Indian Law Enforcement Reform
Act to provide for advancement in pub-
lic safety services to Indian commu-
nities, and for other purposes.
S. 317
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
317, a bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide States
with the option of providing coordi-
nated care for children with complex
medical conditions through a health
home.
S. 342
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
342, a bill to reauthorize title VI of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order
to improve and encourage innovation
in international education, and for
other purposes.
S. 380
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
380, a bill to increase access to agency
guidance documents.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
386, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for
employment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 436
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 436, a bill to amend title
49, United States Code, to require the
development of public transportation
operations safety risk reduction pro-
grams, and for other purposes.
S. 506
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 506, a bill to support
State, Tribal, and local efforts to re-
move access to firearms from individ-
uals who are a danger to themselves or
others pursuant to court orders for this
purpose.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 514, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the benefits
and services provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL), the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. REED), the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 521, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to re-
peal the Government pension offset and
windfall elimination provisions.
S. 546
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
546, a bill to extend authorization for
the September 11th Victim Compensa-
tion Fund of 2001 through fiscal year
2090, and for other purposes.
S. 548
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 548, a bill to reauthorize
the Money Follows the Person Dem-
onstration Program.
S. 590
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 590, a bill to award Congres-
sional Gold Medals to Katherine John-
son and Dr. Christine Darden, to post-
humously award Congressional Gold
Medals to Dorothy Vaughan and Mary
Jackson, and to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to honor all of the women
who contributed to the success of the
National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration during the Space Race.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.038 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1901
March 14, 2019
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
622, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to repeal the requirement
for reduction of survivor annuities
under the Survivor Benefit Plan by
veterans’ dependency and indemnity
compensation, and for other purposes.
S. 631
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 631, a bill to provide for the
admission of the State of Washington,
D.C. into the Union.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 638, a bill to require the
Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency to designate per-
and polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 642
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 642, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Master
Sergeant Rodrick ‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds
in recognition of his heroic actions
during World War II.
S. 666
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
666, a bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to award grants to organizations
for the provision of transition assist-
ance to members and former members
of the Armed Forces who are separated,
retired, or discharged from the Armed
Forces, and spouses of such members,
and for other purposes.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from
Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 668, a bill to
amend title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act to waive coinsurance under
Medicare for colorectal cancer screen-
ing tests, regardless of whether thera-
peutic intervention is required during
the screening.
S. 679
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 679, a bill to exempt
from the calculation of monthly in-
come certain benefit paid by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs and the
Department of Defense.
S. 693
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend
title 36, United States Code, to require
that the POW/MIA flag be displayed on
all days that the flag of the United
States is displayed on certain Federal
property.
S. 716
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 716, a bill to impose sanc-
tions under the Global Magnitsky
Human Rights Accountability Act to
combat corruption, money laundering,
and impunity in Guatemala, and for
other purposes.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 726, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
to ensure the safety of cosmetics.
S. 753
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 753, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to count a
period of receipt of outpatient observa-
tion services in a hospital toward satis-
fying the 3-day inpatient hospital re-
quirement for coverage of skilled nurs-
ing facility services under Medicare.
S. 764
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON) was added as a cosponsor of S. 764,
a bill to provide for congressional ap-
proval of national emergency declara-
tions, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 99
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY), the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 99, a resolution
expressing the sense of the Senate that
Congress should take all appropriate
measures to ensure that the United
States Postal Service remains an inde-
pendent establishment of the Federal
Government and is not subject to pri-
vatization.
S. RES. 100
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 100, a resolution recognizing the
heritage, culture, and contributions of
American Indian, Alaska Native, and
Native Hawaiian women in the United
States.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 794. A bill for the relief of Jose
Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela
Lopez Martinez, and Adilene Martinez;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President,
today I am reintroducing private im-
migration relief legislation to provide
lawful permanent resident status to
Adilene Martinez, who is originally
from Mexico but has been living in
California for over 20 years. I believe
she merits Congress’ special consider-
ation for this extraordinary form of re-
lief.
Adilene, age 30, was brought to the
United States by her parents Jose
Alberto Martinez Moreno and Micaela
Lopez Martinez. When Jose came to the
United States from Mexico, he began
working as a busboy in restaurants in
San Francisco, California. In 1990, he
started working as a cook at Palio
D’Asti, an award-winning Italian res-
taurant in San Francisco.
Jose and his wife, Micaela, call San
Francisco home. Micaela is a home-
maker and part-time housekeeper.
They have three daughters, two of
whom are United States citizens. Their
oldest daughter, Adilene, is undocu-
mented and is currently working at the
San Francisco Opera House. Adilene at-
tempted to legalize her status through
several channels with her family, but
the current green card backlog for rel-
atives from Mexico is very long.
In 2002, the Martinez family applied
for political asylum. Their application
was denied. An immigration judge de-
nied their subsequent application for
cancellation of removal. The Martinez
family has become an integral part of
their community in California. They
are active in their faith community.
They volunteer with community-based
organizations and are, in turn, sup-
ported by their community. When I
first introduced this bill, I received
dozens of letters of support from their
fellow parishioners, teachers, and
members of their community.
The Martinez family truly exempli-
fies the American dream. Jose worked
his way through the restaurant indus-
try to become a chef and an indispen-
sable employee at a renowned res-
taurant. With great dedication,
Micaela has worked hard to raise three
daughters who are advancing their edu-
cation and look forward to continuing
the pursuit of their goals.
I believe that Adilene’s continued
presence in the United States would
allow them to continue making signifi-
cant contributions to their community
in California. I ask my colleagues to
support this private bill.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 794
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR
JOSE ALBERTO MARTINEZ MORENO,
MICAELA LOPEZ MARTINEZ, AND
ADILENE MARTINEZ.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151), Jose Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.042 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1902 March 14, 2019
Lopez Martinez, and Adilene Martinez shall
each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant
visa or for adjustment of status to that of an
alien lawfully admitted for permanent resi-
dence upon filing an application for issuance
of an immigrant visa under section 204 of
such Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of
status to lawful permanent resident.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Jose
Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez
Martinez, or Adilene Martinez enters the
United States before the filing deadline spec-
ified in subsection (c), Jose Alberto Martinez
Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, or Adilene
Martinez shall be considered to have entered
and remained lawfully in the United States
and shall be eligible for adjustment of status
under section 245 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of
the enactment of this Act.
(c) APPLICATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES.—
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the
applications for issuance of immigrant visas
or the applications for adjustment of status
are filed with appropriate fees not later than
two years after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUM-
BERS.—Upon the granting of immigrant visas
or permanent resident status to Jose Alberto
Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez,
and Adilene Martinez, the Secretary of State
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by
three, during the current or next following
fiscal year—
(1) the total number of immigrant visas
that are made available to natives of the
country of birth of Jose Alberto Martinez
Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, and
Adilene Martinez under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1153(a)); or
(2) if applicable, the total number of immi-
grant visas that are made available to na-
tives of the country of birth of Jose Alberto
Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez,
and Adilene Martinez under section 202(e) of
such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
(e) PAYGO.—The budgetary effects of this
Act, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted
for printing in the Congressional Record by
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 795. A bill for the relief of Alfredo
Plascencia Lopez; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to offer legislation to pro-
vide lawful permanent residence status
to Alfredo Plascencia Lopez, a Mexican
national who lives in the San Bruno
area of California.
I offer legislation on his behalf be-
cause I believe that, without it, this
hardworking man, wife who is a lawful
permanent resident, and children
would face extreme hardship. His chil-
dren would either face separation from
their father or be forced to leave the
only country they know and give up
the education they are pursuing in the
United States.
Alfredo and his wife, Maria, have
been in the United States for over 20
years. They worked for years to adjust
their status through appropriate legal
channels, but poor legal representation
ruined their opportunities.
The Plascencias’ lawyer refused to
return their calls or otherwise commu-
nicate with them in any way. He also
failed to forward crucial immigration
documents. Because of the poor rep-
resentation they received, Alfredo only
became aware that they had been or-
dered to leave the United States 15
days prior to his scheduled deporta-
tion.
Alfredo was shocked to learn of his
attorney’s malfeasance, but he acted
quickly to secure legitimate counsel
and filed the appropriate paperwork to
delay his deportation and determine if
any other legal action could be taken.
Together, Alfredo and Maria have
used their professional successes, with
the assistance of private bills, to real-
ize many of the goals dreamed of by all
Americans. They have worked hard,
and saved up to buy their home.
Their oldest child, Christina, is 28
years old and is currently a paralegal.
Erika, age 24, serves in the United
States Air Force and hopes to one day
become a police officer. Danny, age 24,
currently attends the University of
California and volunteers at his local
homeless shelter in the soup kitchen.
Daisy, age 17, and Juan Pablo, age 13,
are all in school and plan on attending
college.
Allowing Alfredo to remain in the
United States is necessary to enable
his family to continue thriving in the
United States. His children are dedi-
cated to pursuing their education and
being productive members of their
community. I do not believe that
Alfredo should be separated from his
family. I am reintroducing this legisla-
tion to protect the best interest of
Alfredo’s U.S. citizen children and his
wife, who is a lawful permanent resi-
dent. I believe that Alfredo will con-
tinue to make positive contributions to
his community in California and this
country. I respectfully ask my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 795
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR
ALFREDO PLASCENCIA LOPEZ.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151), Alfredo Plascencia Lopez shall be eligi-
ble for the issuance of an immigrant visa or
for adjustment of status to that of an alien
lawfully admitted for permanent residence
upon filing an application for issuance of an
immigrant visa under section 204 of that Act
(8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to
lawful permanent resident.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Alfredo
Plascencia Lopez enters the United States
before the filing deadline specified in sub-
section (c), Alfredo Plascencia Lopez shall be
considered to have entered and remained
lawfully and shall be eligible for adjustment
of status under section 245 of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) APPLICATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES.—
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the
application for issuance of immigrant visas
or the application for adjustment of status
are filed with appropriate fees within two
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUM-
BERS.—Upon the granting of immigrant visas
or permanent residence to Alfredo
Plascencia Lopez, the Secretary of State
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by
one, during the current or next following fis-
cal year—
(1) the total number of immigrant visas
that are made available to natives of the
country of birth of Alfredo Plascencia Lopez
under section 203(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)); or
(2) if applicable, the total number of immi-
grant visas that are made available to na-
tives of the country of birth of Alfredo
Plascencia Lopez under section 202(e) of that
Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
(e) PAYGO.—The budgetary effects of this
Act, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted
for printing in the Congressional Record by
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 796. A bill for the relief of Ruben
Mkoian and Asmik Karapetian; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise to reintroduce private relief legis-
lation in the 116th Congress on behalf
of Ruben Mkoian and Asmik
Karapetian. The Mkoian family has
been living in Fresno, California, for
over 20 years. I continue to believe this
family deserves Congress’ special con-
sideration for such an extraordinary
form of relief as a private bill.
The Mkoian family is originally from
Armenia. They decided to leave Arme-
nia for the United States in the early
1990s, following several incidents in
which the family experienced harass-
ment, vandalism and threats to their
well-being.
In Armenia, Ruben worked as a po-
lice sergeant on vehicle licensing. At
one point, he was offered a bribe to reg-
ister stolen vehicles, which he refused
and reported to his superior, the police
chief. He later learned that a co-worker
had registered the vehicles at the re-
quest of the same chief.
After Ruben reported the bribe offer
to illegally register vehicles and said
he’d call the police, his family store
was vandalized and he received threat-
ening phone calls telling him to keep
quiet. A bottle of gasoline was thrown
into his family’s residence, burning it
to the ground. In April 1992, several
men entered the family store and as-
saulted Ruben, hospitalizing him for 22
days.
Ruben, Asmik, and their son Arthur,
who was 3 years old at the time, left
Armenia and entered the United States
on visitor visas. They applied for polit-
ical asylum that same year on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.045 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1903
March 14, 2019
grounds that they would be subject to
physical attacks if returned to Arme-
nia. It took 16 years for their case to be
finalized, with the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals denying their asylum case
in January 2008.
At this time, Ruben and Asmik have
exhausted every option to obtain immi-
gration relief in the United States. It
would be a terrible shame to remove
this family from the United States and
to separate them from their son Arsen,
who is 20 years old and a U.S. citizen.
The Mkoians have worked hard to
build a place for their family in Cali-
fornia and are an integral part of their
community.
The family attends St. Paul Arme-
nian Apostolic Church in Fresno. They
do charity work to send medical equip-
ment to Armenia. Ruben works as a
driver for Uber. He previously worked
as a manager at a car wash in Fresno
and as a truck driver for a California
trucking company that described him
as ‘‘trustworthy,’’ ‘‘knowledgeable,’’
and an asset to the company. Asmik
has worked as a medical assistant the
past 6 years at the Fresno Shield Med-
ical Center.
Reflecting their contributions to
their community, Representatives
George Radanovich (R–CA) and JIM
COSTA (D–CA) strongly supported this
family’s ability to remain in the
United States. When I first introduced
a private bill for the Mkoian family, I
received more than 200 letters of sup-
port and dozens of calls of support from
friends and community members, at-
testing to the positive impact that this
family has had in Fresno, California.
I believe that this case warrants our
compassion. I respectfully ask my col-
leagues to support this private legisla-
tion on behalf of the Mkoian family.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 796
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR
RUBEN MKOIAN AND ASMIK
KARAPETIAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151), Ruben Mkoian and Asmik Karapetian
shall each be eligible for the issuance of an
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for per-
manent residence upon filing an application
for issuance of an immigrant visa under sec-
tion 204 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for ad-
justment of status to lawful permanent resi-
dent.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Ruben
Mkoian or Asmik Karapetian enters the
United States before the filing deadline spec-
ified in subsection (c), Ruben Mkoian or
Asmik Karapetian, as appropriate, shall be
considered to have entered and remained
lawfully in the United States and shall be el-
igible for adjustment of status under section
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(c) APPLICATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES.—
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the
application for the issuance of an immigrant
visa or the application for adjustment of sta-
tus is filed with appropriate fees not later
than two years after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUM-
BERS.—Upon granting an immigrant visa or
permanent resident status to Ruben Mkoian
and Asmik Karapetian, the Secretary of
State shall instruct the proper officer to re-
duce by two, during the current or next fol-
lowing fiscal year—
(1) the total number of immigrant visas
that are made available to natives of the
country of birth of Ruben Mkoian and Asmik
Karapetian under section 203(a) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1153(a)); or
(2) if applicable, the total number of immi-
grant visas that are made available to na-
tives of the country of birth of Ruben
Mkoian and Asmik Karapetian under section
202(e) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
(e) PAYGO.—The budgetary effects of this
Act, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted
for printing in the Congressional Record by
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 797. A bill for the relief of Shirley
Constantino Tan; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President,
today I am reintroducing a bill for the
private relief of Shirley Constantino
Tan. Ms. Tan is a Filipina national liv-
ing in Pacifica, California. She is the
proud mother of 20-year-old U.S. cit-
izen twin boys, Jashley and Joriene,
and the spouse of Jay Mercado, a natu-
ralized U.S. citizen.
I believe Ms. Tan merits Congress’
special consideration for this extraor-
dinary form of relief because her re-
moval from the United States would
cause undue hardship for her and her
family. She faces deportation to the
Philippines, which would separate her
from her family and jeopardize her
safety.
Ms. Tan experienced horrific violence
in the Philippines before she left to
come to the United States. When she
was only 14 years old, her cousin mur-
dered her mother and her sister and
shot Shirley in the head. While the
cousin who committed the murders was
eventually prosecuted, he received a
short jail sentence. Fearing for her
safety, Ms. Tan fled the Philippines
just before her cousin was due to be re-
leased from jail. She entered the
United States legally on a visitor’s visa
in 1989.
Ms. Tan’s current deportation order
is the result of negligent counsel. She
applied for asylum in 1995. While her
case appeal was pending at the Board
of Immigration Appeals, her attorney
failed to submit a brief to support her
case. As a result, the case was dis-
missed, and the Board of Immigration
Appeals granted Shirley voluntary de-
parture from the United States.
Ms. Tan never received notice that
the Board of Immigration Appeals
granted her voluntary departure. Her
attorney moved offices, did not receive
the order, and ultimately never in-
formed her of the order. As a result,
Ms. Tan did not depart the United
States and the grant of voluntary de-
parture automatically led to a removal
order. She learned about the deporta-
tion order for the first time on January
28, 2009, when Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement agents took her into
immigration custody.
Because of her attorney’s negligent
actions, Ms. Tan was denied the oppor-
tunity to present her case in immigra-
tion proceedings. She later filed a com-
plaint with the State Bar of California
against her former attorney. She is not
the first person to file such a com-
plaint against this attorney.
On February 4, 2015, Ms. Tan’s
spouse, Jay, a U.S. Citizen, filed an ap-
proved spousal petition on her behalf.
On August 20, 2015, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services denied her appli-
cation due to the fact that she still had
a final order or removal. Ms. Tan must
go back to the immigration court and
ask for the court to terminate her case
and then reapply for her green card.
Ms. Tan is now again facing the threat
of deportation while she seeks to close
her case before an immigration court.
In addition to the hardship that
would come to Ms. Tan if she is de-
ported, her deportation would cause se-
rious hardship to her two United
States citizen children, Jashley and
Joriene.
Joriene is a junior at Stanford Uni-
versity and is pre-Med, majoring in
Human Biology. In addition to his
studies, Joriene is involved in Stan-
ford’s Pilipino-American Student
Union. Jashley is a junior at Chapman
University, majoring in Business Ad-
ministration. Ms. Tan no longer runs
her in-home daycare and is a home-
maker.
If Ms. Tan were forced to leave the
United States, her family has expressed
that they would go with her to the
Philippines or try to find a third coun-
try where the entire family could relo-
cate. This would mean that Jashley
and Joriene would have to leave behind
their education and the only home
they know in the United States.
I do not believe it is in our Nation’s
best interest to force this family, with
two United States citizen children, to
make the choice between being sepa-
rated and relocating to a country
where they may face safety concerns or
other serious hardships.
Ms. Tan and her family are involved
in their community in Pacifica and
own their own home. The family at-
tends Good Shepherd Catholic Church,
volunteering at the church and the
Mother Theresa of Calcutta’s Daugh-
ters of Charity. Ms. Tan has the sup-
port of dozens of members of her com-
munity who have shared with me the
family’s spirit of commitment to their
community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.058 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1904 March 14, 2019
Enactment of the legislation I am in-
troducing on behalf of Ms. Tan today
will enable this entire family to con-
tinue their lives in California and
make positive contributions to their
community. Mr. President, I ask my
colleagues to support this private bill.
I ask unanimous consent that a copy
of the bill be included in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 797
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR
SHIRLEY CONSTANTINO TAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151), Shirley Constantino Tan shall be eligi-
ble for issuance of an immigrant visa or for
adjustment of status to that of an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence upon
filing an application for issuance of an immi-
grant visa under section 204 of such Act (8
U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to
lawful permanent resident.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Shirley
Constantino Tan enters the United States
before the filing deadline specified in sub-
section (c), she shall be considered to have
entered and remained lawfully and shall be
eligible for adjustment of status under sec-
tion 245 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(c) APPLICATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES.—
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the
application for issuance of an immigrant
visa or the application for adjustment of sta-
tus is filed with appropriate fees within two
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUM-
BER.—Upon the granting of an immigrant
visa or permanent residence to Shirley
Constantino Tan, the Secretary of State
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by
one, during the current or next following fis-
cal year—
(1) the total number of immigrant visas
that are made available to natives of the
country of birth of Shirley Constantino Tan
under section 203(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)); or
(2) if applicable, the total number of immi-
grant visas that are made available to na-
tives of the country of birth of Shirley
Constantino Tan under section 202(e) of such
Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
(e) PAYGO.—The budgetary effects of this
Act, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted
for printing in the Congressional Record by
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 798. A bill for the relief of
Esidronio Arreola-Saucedo, Maria
Elena Cobian Arreola, Nayely Arreola
Carlos, and Cindy Jael Arreola; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President,
today, I offer private immigration re-
lief legislation to provide lawful per-
manent resident status to Esidronio
Arreola-Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian
Arreola, Nayely Arreola Carlos, and
Cindy Jael Arreola. The Arreolas are
Mexican nationals living in the Fresno
area of California.
Esidronio and Maria Elena have lived
in the United States for over 20 years.
Two of their 5 children, Nayely and
Cindy also stand to benefit from this
legislation. The other 3 Arreola chil-
dren, Robert, age 27, Daniel, age 22, and
Saray, age 22, are United States citi-
zens. The story of the Arreola family is
compelling and I believe they merit
Congress’ special consideration for
such an extraordinary form of relief as
a private bill.
The Arreolas are facing deportation
in part because of grievous errors com-
mitted by their previous counsel, who
has since been disbarred. In fact, the
attorney’s conduct was so egregious
that it compelled an immigration
judge to write to the Executive Office
of Immigration Review seeking the at-
torney’s disbarment for his actions in
his clients’ immigration cases.
Esidronio came to the United States
in 1986 and was an agricultural migrant
worker in the fields of California for
several years. As a migrant worker at
that time, he would have been eligible
for permanent residence through the
Seasonal Agricultural Workers (SAW)
program, had he known about it.
Maria Elena was living in the United
States at the time she became preg-
nant with her daughter Cindy. She re-
turned to Mexico to give birth because
she wanted to avoid any immigration
issues.
Because of the length of time that
the Arreolas were in the United States,
it is likely that they would have quali-
fied for suspension of deportation,
which would have allowed them to re-
main in the United States legally.
However, the poor legal representation
they received foreclosed this oppor-
tunity.
One of the most compelling reasons
for my introduction of this private bill
is the devastating impact the deporta-
tion of Esidronio and Maria Elena
would have on their children–3 of whom
are American citizens—and the other 2
who have lived in the United States
since they were toddlers. America is
the only country the Arreola children
have ever known.
Nayely, the oldest, was the first in
her family to graduate from high
school and the first to graduate col-
lege. She recently received her Masters
in Business Administration from Fres-
no Pacific University, a regionally
ranked university, and now works in
the admissions office. Nayely is mar-
ried and has a young son named Elijah
Ace Carlos.
At a young age, Nayely demonstrated
a strong commitment to the ideals of
citizenship in her adopted country. She
worked hard to achieve her full poten-
tial both through her academic endeav-
ors and community service. As the As-
sociate Dean of Enrollment Services at
Fresno Pacific University States in a
letter of support, ‘‘[T]he leaders of
Fresno Pacific University saw in
Nayely, a young person who will be-
come exemplary of all that is good in
the American dream.’’
In high school, Nayely was a member
of Advancement Via Individual Deter-
mination, AVID, college preparatory
program in which students commit to
determining their own futures through
attaining a college degree. Nayely was
also President of the Key Club, a com-
munity service organization. Perhaps
the greatest hardship to Nayely’s U.S.
citizen husband and child, if she were
forced to return to Mexico, would be
her lost opportunity to realize her
dreams and contribute further to her
community and to this country.
Nayely’s sister, Cindy, is also mar-
ried and has a 7-year-old daughter and
a 5-year-old son. Neither Nayely nor
Cindy is eligible to automatically ad-
just their status based on their mar-
riages because of their initial unlawful
entry.
The Arreolas also have other family
who are United States citizens or law-
ful permanent residents of this coun-
try. Maria Elena has 3 brothers who are
American citizens, and Esidronio has a
sister who is an American citizen. They
have no immediate family in Mexico.
According to immigration authori-
ties, this family has never had any
problems with law enforcement. I am
told that they have filed their taxes for
every year from 1990 to the present.
They have always worked hard to sup-
port themselves.
As I mentioned, Esidronio was pre-
viously employed as a farm worker, but
now has his own business in California
repairing electronics. His business has
been successful enough to enable him
to purchase a home for his family. He
and his wife are active in their church
community and in their children’s edu-
cation.
It is clear to me that this family has
embraced the American dream. Enact-
ment of the legislation I have reintro-
duced today will enable the Arreolas to
continue to make significant contribu-
tions to their community as well as the
United States. I ask my colleagues to
support this private bill.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 798
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR
ESIDRONIO ARREOLA-SAUCEDO,
MARIA ELENA COBIAN ARREOLA,
NAYELY ARREOLA CARLOS, AND
CINDY JAEL ARREOLA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 201 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151), Esidronio Arreola-Saucedo, Maria
Elena Cobian Arreola, Nayely Arreola Car-
los, and Cindy Jael Arreola shall each be eli-
gible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for
adjustment of status to that of an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence upon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.053 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1905
March 14, 2019
filing an application for issuance of an immi-
grant visa under section 204 of such Act (8
U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to
lawful permanent resident.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Esidronio
Arreola-Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian
Arreola, Nayely Arreola Carlos, and Cindy
Jael Arreola enter the United States before
the filing deadline specified in subsection (c),
Esidronio Arreola-Saucedo, Maria Elena
Cobian Arreola, Nayely Arreola Carlos, and
Cindy Jael Arreola shall be considered to
have entered and remained lawfully in the
United States and shall be eligible for ad-
justment of status under section 245 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1255) as of the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(c) APPLICATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES.—
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the
applications for issuance of immigrant visas
or the applications for adjustment of status
are filed with appropriate fees not later than
two years after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUM-
BERS.—Upon the granting of immigrant visas
or permanent residence to Esidronio Arreola-
Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian Arreola,
Nayely Arreola Carlos, and Cindy Jael
Arreola, the Secretary of State shall in-
struct the proper officer to reduce by four,
during the current or next following fiscal
year—
(1) the total number of immigrant visas
that are made available to natives of the
country of birth of Esidronio Arreola-
Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian Arreola,
Nayely Arreola Carlos, and Cindy Jael
Arreola under section 203(a) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)); or
(2) if applicable, the total number of immi-
grant visas that are made available to na-
tives of the country of birth of Esidronio
Arreola-Saucedo, Maria Elena Cobian
Arreola, Nayely Arreola Carlos, and Cindy
Jael Arreola under section 202(e) of such Act
(8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
(e) PAYGO.—The budgetary effects of this
Act, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted
for printing in the Congressional Record by
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has
been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 822. A bill to permit the televising
of Supreme Court proceedings; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 822
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cameras in
the Courtroom Act’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO TITLE 28.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 45 of title 28,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
at the end the following:
‘‘§ 678. Televising Supreme Court proceedings
‘‘The Supreme Court shall permit tele-
vision coverage of all open sessions of the
Court unless the Court decides, by a vote of
the majority of justices, that allowing such
coverage in a particular case would con-
stitute a violation of the due process rights
of 1 or more of the parties before the
Court.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The chapter
analysis for chapter 45 of title 28, United
States Code, is amended by inserting at the
end the following:
‘‘678. Televising Supreme Court pro-
ceedings.’’.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. BROWN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 839. A bill to extend Federal Pell
Grant eligibility of certain short-term
programs; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President. In today’s
economy, approximately 80 percent of
jobs require some form of postsec-
ondary education or training beyond
the high school level. The National
Skills Coalition estimates that nearly
half of all job openings between now
and 2022 will be middle skill jobs that
require post high school training, but
not a four-year degree. While the num-
ber of students pursing postsecondary
education is growing, the supply of
skilled workers still falls short of in-
dustry demand. According to the Bu-
reau of Labor and Statistics 7.3 million
U.S. jobs are currently vacant in part
because of a shortage of qualified
workers.
Our Federal higher education policy
must be modernized to meet the needs
of students and employers. Under cur-
rent law, Pell Grants—needs-based
grants for low-income and working stu-
dents—can only be awarded to students
attending programs that are over 600
clock hours or at least 15 weeks in
length. These grants cannot be used to
offset the cost of targeted, short-term
training programs offered at commu-
nity and technical colleges that help
students obtain employer-recognized
credentials. When it comes to higher
education, Federal policies need to sup-
port the demands of the changing labor
market by increasing access to career
pathways that align with industry de-
mand. According to the Georgetown
University Center on Education and
the Workforce, shorter-term edu-
cational investments pay off—the aver-
age postsecondary certificate holder
has 30 percent higher lifetime earnings
than individuals with only a high
school diploma.
Today, I am pleased to introduce
with my colleague, Senator PORTMAN,
the Jumpstart Our Businesses by Sup-
porting Students or JOBS Act. The
JOBS Act would close the skills gap by
extending Pell Grant eligibility to
high-quality, short-term job training
programs offered at community col-
leges and other public institutions, so
workers can afford the instruction they
need to be successful in today’s job
market. Under the legislation, Pell-eli-
gible job training programs are defined
as those providing at least 150 clock
hours of instruction time over a min-
imum of 8 weeks. Eligible job training
programs must also provide students
with licenses, certifications, or creden-
tials that meet the hiring requirements
of multiple employers in the field for
which the job training is offered.
The JOBS Act also ensures that stu-
dents enrolling in Pell-eligible short-
term programs are earning high-qual-
ity postsecondary credentials by re-
quiring that the credentials meet the
standards of the Workforce Innovation
and Opportunity Act, are recognized by
industry or sector partnerships, and
align with the skill needs of industries
in States or local economies. Job train-
ing programs under this Act must also
be evaluated by an accreditor and the
State workforce board for quality and
outcomes. The Virginia Community
College System has identified approxi-
mately 50 programs that would benefit
from the JOBS Act including in the
fields of manufacturing, architecture/
construction, energy, health care, in-
formation technology, transportation,
and business management and adminis-
tration.
The JOBS Act is a commonsense, bi-
partisan bill that would help workers
and employers succeed in today’s econ-
omy. As Congress works to reauthorize
the Higher Education Act, I am hopeful
that my colleagues will join me in ad-
vocating for Pell Grants to be made
available to individuals enrolling in
high-quality, short-term training pro-
grams that lead to industry-recognized
credentials and good paying jobs.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 109—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE ON THE MARCH 31, 2019,
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION IN
UKRAINE
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 109
Whereas the Senate agrees with Senate
Resolution 78, 115th Congress, introduced by
Senators Menendez and Graham, which ex-
pressed the sense of the Senate recognizing 3
years of Russian military aggression in
Ukraine;
Whereas the Senate concurs with Senate
Resolution 27, 116th Congress, introduced by
Senators Johnson and Durbin, which calls
for a prompt multinational freedom of navi-
gation operation in the Black Sea and urges
the cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipe-
line;
Whereas the Senate endorses H.R. 596,
116th Congress, introduced by Representa-
tives Connolly and Chabot, which affirms
that it is the policy of the United States not
to recognize the de jure or de facto sov-
ereignty of the Russian Federation over Cri-
mea, its airspace, or its territorial waters;
Whereas the Senate reaffirms the impor-
tance of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act
of 2014 (Public Law 113–272; 128 Stat. 2952),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.056 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1906 March 14, 2019
which authorized increased security and eco-
nomic assistance for Ukraine;
Whereas the Senate welcomes resolutions
of Congress, such as House Resolution 202,
115th Congress, sponsored by Representative
Delaney, which reaffirmed the commitment
of the United States to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization;
Whereas the Senate notes the upcoming
March 31, 2019, presidential election in
Ukraine and the importance of a free and
fair election to sustaining the principles and
dreams of the 2014 Maidan Revolution;
Whereas the Senate expresses concern that
the Government of the Russian Federation
will continue to interfere in the election
process and voting in the March 31, 2019,
presidential election in Ukraine; and
Whereas the Senate agrees with former
United States Ambassador to the Russian
Federation Michael McFaul that ‘‘Russian
President Vladimir Putin is waging a global
ideological war against Western liberal,
democratic values. It has been underway for
many years, and it extends from his own im-
mediate neighborhood to Western Europe
and, of course, the United States, where he
intervened in the U.S. presidential election
in 2016. The front line of this ideological war
between Putinism and democracy, however,
remains Ukraine.’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the United States Government does not
prefer any particular candidate in the March
31, 2019, presidential election in Ukraine and
seeks only a transparent and democratic
election that reflects the will of the people
of Ukraine;
(2) the United States Government will con-
tinue to support democracy and good govern-
ance in Ukraine, including anti-corruption
initiatives, an independent media, and ef-
forts to strengthen the rule of law, to sup-
port the ideals of the revolution of dignity of
Ukraine;
(3) the United States should continue to
work with allies to provide additional capac-
ity building and technical support in order
to deter Russian efforts to disrupt voting or
undermine the legitimacy of the results of
the presidential election in Ukraine; and
(4) not later than 90 days after the date on
which this resolution is agreed to, the Presi-
dent should provide a briefing to Congress—
(A) assessing the scope and scale of Rus-
sian interference in the presidential cam-
paign in Ukraine and vote tabulation on
election day; and
(B) assessing the future course of United
States–Ukrainian relations under whichever
candidate is declared the winner of the presi-
dential election.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 110—KEEP-
ING GUNS OUT OF CLASSROOMS
Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mrs. MURRAY) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 110
Whereas Congress has consistently made
clear that it is unlawful for Federal funds to
be used for training or arming school per-
sonnel with firearms;
Whereas Congress passed the STOP School
Violence Act of 2018 (title V of division S of
Public Law 115–141) in response to the shoot-
ing in Parkland, Florida, and amended part
AA of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10551
et seq.) to specify that ‘‘No amounts pro-
vided as a grant [for school security under
such part] may be used for the provision to
any person of a firearm or training in the use
of a firearm.’’;
Whereas section 4102 of the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 7113), as added by section 4101 of the
Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law
114–95; 129 Stat. 1970), defines drug and vio-
lence prevention in schools as including the
‘‘creation . . . of a school environment that
is free of weapons’’;
Whereas existing research demonstrates
that training or arming school personnel
with firearms will not make schools safer;
Whereas an analysis by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation of active shooters between
2000 and 2013 found that trained law enforce-
ment suffered casualties in 21 of the 45 inci-
dents in which officers engaged the shooter
to end the threat;
Whereas a survey of gun violence on school
campuses showed that out of 225 incidents of
gun violence between 1999 and 2018, trained
armed personnel or school resource officers
failed to disarm an active shooter 223 times;
Whereas proposed and existing programs to
train or arm school personnel with firearms
require significantly less training than law
enforcement officers receive;
Whereas research demonstrates that in-
creased gun access and possession are not as-
sociated with protection from violence and a
greater prevalence of guns increases the
likelihood of gun violence;
Whereas a greater prevalence of guns in
schools creates undue risk of students gain-
ing unauthorized access to firearms and the
potential for unintentional shootings and
school staff using guns in situations that do
not warrant lethal force;
Whereas students of color, students with
disabilities, and other vulnerable groups
would experience a disparate impact of pro-
grams that arm school personnel as those
students are disproportionately disciplined
and arrested;
Whereas heightened policing within public
school spaces decreases a student’s sense of
safety and the associated anticipation of vio-
lence leads to increased anxiety, fear, and
depression;
Whereas 73 percent of teachers in the
United States do not want to carry guns in
school and 58 percent say arming personnel
would make schools less safe, according to a
Gallup poll from March 2018;
Whereas the majority of parents of school-
aged children oppose arming school per-
sonnel, according to surveys;
Whereas, as of March 2019, there is no evi-
dence supporting the value of arming school
personnel;
Whereas the broad consensus among par-
ticipants in the listening tour for the final
report of the Federal Commission on School
Safety released in December 2018 was dis-
agreement with programs that would arm
school personnel, according to transcripts;
and
Whereas, in that final report, the Depart-
ment of Education endorsed the use of Fed-
eral funds to train personnel to use firearms:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that Federal funds shall not be used to train
or arm school personnel with firearms.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 111—RECOG-
NIZING THE HERITAGE, CUL-
TURE, AND CONTRIBUTIONS OF
LATINAS IN THE UNITED
STATES
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. WARREN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. UDALL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. BENNET, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. BROWN,
Mr. COONS, Mr. REED, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. KAINE) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 111
Whereas the United States celebrates Na-
tional Women’s History Month every March
to recognize and honor the achievements of
women throughout the history of the United
States;
Whereas there are nearly 28,000,000 Latinas
living in the United States;
Whereas 1 in 6 women in the United States
is a Latina;
Whereas Latinas have helped shape the his-
tory of the United States since its inception;
Whereas Latinas contribute to the society
of the United States through working in
many industries, including business, edu-
cation, science and technology, medicine, en-
gineering, mathematics, literature and the
arts, the military, agriculture, hospitality,
and public service at every level of govern-
ment;
Whereas Latinas come from diverse cul-
tures across North America, Central Amer-
ica, South America, and the Caribbean, and
Afro-Latinas face disparities in recognition;
Whereas Latinas are dedicated public serv-
ants, holding posts at the highest levels of
the Federal Government, including the Su-
preme Court of the United States, Cabinet-
level positions, the United States Senate,
and the United States House of Representa-
tives;
Whereas Latinas make up an estimated 16
percent of women in the Armed Forces, and
the first Latina to become a general in the
Marine Corps reached that rank in 2006;
Whereas Latinas are breaking the glass
ceiling in the science, technology, engineer-
ing, and mathematics fields, with the first
Latina to travel into space doing so during a
9-day Space Shuttle Discovery mission in
1993;
Whereas Latinas own nearly 2,000,000 busi-
nesses, and 1 in 6 women-owned companies in
the United States is owned by a Latina;
Whereas Latina activists have led the fight
for civil rights, including labor rights,
LGBTQ rights, women’s rights, and racial
equality;
Whereas Latinas create award-winning art
and are recipients of Emmy, Grammy, Oscar,
and Tony awards;
Whereas Latina singers and songwriters,
like Selena, also known as the Queen of
Tejano music, and Celia Cruz, also known as
the Queen of Salsa, have made lasting and
significant contributions to music through-
out the world;
Whereas Latinas serve in the medical pro-
fession, and the first female and first His-
panic Surgeon General of the United States
was appointed in 1990;
Whereas Latinas are paid just 53 cents for
every dollar paid to White, non-Hispanic
men;
Whereas, in the face of societal obstacles,
including unequal pay, disparities in edu-
cation, health care needs, and civil rights
struggles, Latinas continue to break through
and thrive;
Whereas the United States should continue
to invest in the future of Latinas to address
the barriers they face; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.061 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1907
March 14, 2019
Whereas, by 2060, Latinas will represent 1⁄3
of the female population of the United
States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) celebrates and honors the successes of
Latinas and the contributions they have
made and continue to make to the United
States; and
(2) recognizes the changes that are still to
be made to ensure that Latinas can realize
their full potential as equal members of soci-
ety.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 112—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE UNITED
STATES CONDEMNS ALL FORMS
OF VIOLENCE AGAINST CHIL-
DREN GLOBALLY AND RECOG-
NIZES THE HARMFUL IMPACTS
OF VIOLENCE AGAINST CHIL-
DREN
Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. COONS, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, and Mrs. SHA-
HEEN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 112
Whereas violence against children can take
many forms, including sexual violence, phys-
ical violence, emotional violence, abuse, ne-
glect, and exploitation;
Whereas, each year, more than 1,000,000,000
children worldwide are exposed to violence;
Whereas, each year, the global economic
impact of physical, psychological, and sexual
violence against children is estimated to be
as high as $7,000,000,000,000, which is 8 per-
cent of global gross domestic product (re-
ferred to in this preamble as ‘‘global GDP’’);
Whereas, around the world, an estimated 1
in 3 adolescent girls between 15 and 19 years
of age, or 84,000,000 girls, have been victims
of emotional, physical, or sexual violence,
which is often perpetrated by individuals the
girls know;
Whereas 1 in 5 girls in the developing world
is said to be married before reaching 18 years
of age and, of those girls, an estimated 1 in
9 is said to be married before reaching 15
years of age;
Whereas, according to the United Nations
Children’s Fund (commonly known as
‘‘UNICEF’’), if current child marriage rates
continue, 120,000,000 girls, an average of
12,000,000 girls a year, will be married before
their 18th birthday over the next decade;
Whereas 246,000,000 boys and girls experi-
ence school-related gender-based violence
each year;
Whereas children with disabilities report-
edly are 3 to 4 times more likely to experi-
ence physical or sexual violence;
Whereas tens of millions of children living
outside of family care, including those living
on the streets, working away from home, and
in residential care, are particularly vulner-
able to violence and abuse;
Whereas an estimated 152,000,000 children
are involved in child labor and 4,300,000 chil-
dren are subject to forced labor, including in
situations of trafficking;
Whereas nearly half of the 68,500,000 indi-
viduals who are currently displaced by con-
flict and war around the world are children
and displacement exposes those children to
increased risk of exploitation, violence, and
abuse;
Whereas, according to the United Nations,
from 2016 to 2017, verified cases of child re-
cruitment, including forcible recruitment,
and participation in armed conflict—
(1) quadrupled in the Central African Re-
public;
(2) doubled in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo; and
(3) persisted at alarming levels in Somalia,
South Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, and
Yemen;
Whereas more than 10,000 children were
killed or maimed in 2017 in armed conflict;
Whereas the risks of online abuse and ex-
ploitation of children is constantly growing,
with the National Center for Missing and Ex-
ploited Children reviewing cases involving
25,000,000 child sexual abuse images in 2015,
up from 450,000 in 2004;
Whereas unaddressed exposure to violence
disrupts the development of critical brain ar-
chitecture and other organ structures, leav-
ing children at lifelong risk of disease and
reduced potential;
Whereas studies show toxic stress relating
to exposure to violent or dangerous environ-
ments becomes damaging to learning, behav-
ior, and health across a lifespan;
Whereas violence against children can lead
to negative health consequences, including
injury, noncommunicable and communicable
diseases, and poor maternal and child health
outcomes;
Whereas all forms of violence in childhood
have a significant negative impact on edu-
cational outcomes, including school attend-
ance and drop-out rates, and can further
limit access to the physical, mental health,
psychosocial and cognitive protections that
safe educational settings provide;
Whereas decades of behavioral and social
science research have demonstrated that
building adaptive capacities, known as resil-
ience, through stable and committed rela-
tionships with a supportive caregiver or
other adult can lessen the harmful develop-
mental effects of violence in children and
youth;
Whereas, according to the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development,
the United States invests 0.5 percent of offi-
cial development assistance in programs
that are designed to prevent and address vio-
lence against children and youth;
Whereas the United States, in coordination
with public-private partnerships and other
organizations, has endorsed the technical
package called ‘‘INSPIRE: Seven Strategies
for Ending Violence against Children’’ (re-
ferred to in this preamble as ‘‘INSPIRE’’)
put forth by the World Health Organization,
with substantial technical input from the
United States Government, including from
the Centers for Disease Control and United
State Agency for International Develop-
ment;
Whereas INSPIRE contains 7 evidence-
based strategies to end violence against chil-
dren that include—
(1) implementing and enforcing relevant
laws;
(2) addressing harmful gender and other so-
cial norms;
(3) creating and sustaining safe commu-
nities;
(4) supporting parents and caregivers;
(5) improving household economic security
to reduce violence in the home;
(6) improving access to health services, so-
cial welfare, and criminal justice support;
and
(7) ensuring safe school environments that
provide gender-equitable education and so-
cial-emotional learning and life skills
trainings; and
Whereas the United States Agency for
International Development, the Department
of State, the Department of Labor, the De-
partment of Homeland Security, and the De-
partment of Health and Human Services
each play a critical role in preventing and
responding to violence against children and
youth: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that the United States—
(1) condemns all forms of violence against
children and youth globally, including phys-
ical, mental, and sexual violence, neglect,
abuse, maltreatment, and exploitation;
(2) recognizes—
(A) the harmful impact that violence
against children and youth has on the
healthy development of children; and
(B) the harmful economic impact of vio-
lence against children and youth; and
(3) should—
(A) develop and implement a comprehen-
sive and coordinated strategy built on evi-
dence-based practices, including the tech-
nical package called ‘‘INSPIRE: Seven Strat-
egies for Ending Violence against Children’’
put forth by the World Health Organization;
and
(B) adopt common metrics and indicators
to monitor progress across Federal agencies
to prevent, address, and end violence against
children and youth globally.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 113—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 25, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL CEREBRAL PALSY
AWARENESS DAY’’
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, and Ms. HASSAN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 113
Whereas a group of permanent disorders of
the development of movement and posture
that are attributed to nonprogressive dis-
turbances that occur in the developing brain
is referred to as ‘‘cerebral palsy’’;
Whereas cerebral palsy, the most common
motor disability in children, is caused by
damage to 1 or more specific areas of the de-
veloping brain, which usually occurs during
fetal development before, during, or after
birth;
Whereas the majority of children who have
cerebral palsy are born with cerebral palsy,
but cerebral palsy may be undetected for
months or years;
Whereas 75 percent of individuals with cer-
ebral palsy also have 1 or more develop-
mental disabilities, including epilepsy, intel-
lectual disability, autism, visual impair-
ment, or blindness;
Whereas, according to information re-
leased by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention—
(1) the prevalence of cerebral palsy is not
changing over time; and
(2) an estimated 1 in 323 children has cere-
bral palsy;
Whereas approximately 764,000 individuals
in the United States are affected by cerebral
palsy;
Whereas, although there is no cure for cer-
ebral palsy, treatment often improves the
capabilities of a child with cerebral palsy;
Whereas scientists and researchers are
hopeful for breakthroughs in cerebral palsy
research;
Whereas researchers across the United
States conduct important research projects
involving cerebral palsy; and
Whereas the Senate can raise awareness of
cerebral palsy in the public and the medical
community: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 25, 2019, as ‘‘National
Cerebral Palsy Awareness Day’’; and
(2) encourages each individual in the
United States to become better informed
about and aware of cerebral palsy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.063 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1908 March 14, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 114—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF MARCH 21, 2019,
AS ‘‘NATIONAL ROSIE THE RIV-
ETER DAY’’
Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. COONS, and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 114
Whereas National Rosie the Riveter Day is
a collective national effort to raise aware-
ness of the more than 18,000,000 women in the
civilian labor force during World War II;
Whereas the people of the United States
have chosen to honor women workers who
contributed from the home front during
World War II;
Whereas those women left their homes to
work or volunteer full-time in factories,
farms, shipyards, airplane factories, banks,
and other institutions in support of the
Armed Forces overseas;
Whereas those women worked with the
United Service Organizations and the Amer-
ican Red Cross, drove trucks, riveted air-
plane parts, collected critical materials,
rolled bandages, and served on rationing
boards;
Whereas it is fitting and proper to recog-
nize and preserve the history and legacy of
working women, including volunteer women,
during World War II to promote cooperation
and fellowship among those women and their
descendants;
Whereas those women and their descend-
ants wish to further the advancement of pa-
triotic ideas, excellence in the workplace,
and loyalty to the United States; and
Whereas March 21, 2019, during Women’s
History Month, is an appropriate day to des-
ignate as ‘‘National Rosie the Riveter Day’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of March 21,
2019 as ‘‘National Rosie the Riveter Day’’;
and
(2) acknowledges the important role played
by women during World War II.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 115—RECOG-
NIZING THE REALTORS LAND IN-
STITUTE ON THE OCCASION OF
ITS 75TH ANNIVERSARY
Mr. COTTON (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 115
Whereas, in 1944, the REALTORS® Land
Institute was founded by 20 land specialists
who met at the Drake Hotel in Chicago, Illi-
nois, to establish a national organization
that would provide education, information,
marketing opportunities, and broker net-
working to enhance the ability of their mem-
bers to conduct business as recognized pro-
fessional land use specialists and, through
collective action, preserve private property
rights;
Whereas, as of 2019, the REALTORS® Land
Institute has been an affiliate of the Na-
tional Association of REALTORS® for 75
years;
Whereas, in 2019, the REALTORS® Land
Institute celebrates 75 years of serving land
owners, users, and realtors throughout the
United States and Canada;
Whereas the members of the REALTORS®
Land Institute have developed international
marketing capabilities and networks
throughout the world;
Whereas the REALTORS® Land Institute
is comprised of members who subscribe to a
strict code of ethics and to just and equi-
table principles in real estate transactions;
Whereas the REALTORS® Land Institute
encourages continuing education and re-
wards members who complete an extensive
education program and service to the land
industry with a national designation of Ac-
credited Land Consultant (commonly known
as ‘‘ALC’’); and
Whereas the REALTORS® Land Institute
is a national professional trade association,
dedicated to advancing the effective use of
the most precious commodity in the United
States, land: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the REALTORS® Land Insti-
tute on the occasion of its 75th anniversary;
and
(2) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit a copy of this resolu-
tion to the REALTORS® Land Institute.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 116—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF SOCIAL WORK MONTH
AND WORLD SOCIAL WORK DAY
ON MARCH 19, 2019
Ms. STABENOW submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 116
Whereas the social work profession is dedi-
cated to enhancing well-being and helping
meet the basic needs of all people, especially
those who are vulnerable, oppressed, and liv-
ing in poverty;
Whereas, in 2019, the theme of Social Work
Month, ‘‘Elevate Social Work’’, embodies the
need to recognize the extraordinary con-
tributions of the profession to the society of
the United States;
Whereas the social work profession is ex-
pected to grow faster than average over the
next 7 years, with more than 682,000 people
expected to be employed as social workers by
2026;
Whereas social workers elevate and em-
power people, giving them the ability to
solve problems, cope with personal road-
blocks, and get the resources they need to
succeed;
Whereas the social work profession is deep-
ly woven into the society of the United
States, with social workers active in govern-
ment, schools, universities, social service
agencies, communities, corporations, the
military, and health care and mental health
care settings;
Whereas social workers are the largest
group of providers of mental health services
in the United States, and the Department of
Veterans Affairs is one of the largest em-
ployers of social workers who hold advanced
degrees;
Whereas social workers travel across the
United States and the world to help people in
crisis, helping them overcome issues such as
death and grief, epidemics, environmental
pollution, and natural disasters such as
wildfires, hurricanes, and floods;
Whereas social workers have been at the
forefront of social justice for decades, push-
ing for equal rights for women, African
Americans, Latinos, people who are disabled,
people who are LGBTQ, and various ethnic,
cultural, and religious groups;
Whereas, for more than a century, the so-
cial work profession has been on the cutting
edge of helping to create changes to make
the society of the United States a better
place to live, including expanded voting
rights, improved workplace safety, and the
establishment of a minimum wage and social
safety net programs that ameliorate poverty
and hunger; and
Whereas social workers stand ready to help
the society of the United States address cur-
rent pressing issues, including equal rights
for all, the need for improved availability of
health care and mental health services, im-
migration reform, voting rights, and the en-
vironmental impact of global warming: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Social
Work Month and World Social Work Day on
March 19, 2019;
(2) acknowledges the diligent efforts of in-
dividuals and groups that promote the im-
portance of social work and observe Social
Work Month and World Social Work Day;
(3) encourages individuals to engage in ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities to pro-
mote further awareness of the life-changing
roles that social workers play; and
(4) recognizes with gratitude the contribu-
tions of the millions of caring individuals
who have chosen to serve their communities
through social work.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 117—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 22, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL REHABILITATION COUN-
SELORS APPRECIATION DAY’’
Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 117
Whereas rehabilitation counselors support
individuals with disabilities by—
(1) conducting assessments;
(2) providing counseling;
(3) supporting families; and
(4) assisting in the development of individ-
ualized plans for employment for individuals
with disabilities who are in need of rehabili-
tation;
Whereas the purpose of professional orga-
nizations for rehabilitation counseling and
education is to promote the improvement of
rehabilitation services available to individ-
uals with disabilities through—
(1) quality education for counselors; and
(2) rehabilitation research;
Whereas various professional organizations
have vigorously advocated for up-to-date
education and training and the maintenance
of professional standards in the field of reha-
bilitation counseling and education, includ-
ing—
(1) the National Rehabilitation Associa-
tion;
(2) the Rehabilitation Counselors and Edu-
cators Association;
(3) the National Council on Rehabilitation
Education;
(4) the National Rehabilitation Counseling
Association;
(5) the American Rehabilitation Coun-
seling Association;
(6) the Commission on Rehabilitation
Counselor Certification;
(7) the Council of State Administrators of
Vocational Rehabilitation; and
(8) the Council on Rehabilitation Edu-
cation;
Whereas, in March of 1983, the president of
the National Council on Rehabilitation Edu-
cation testified before the Subcommittee on
Select Education of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor of the House of Representa-
tives and was instrumental in bringing to
the attention of Congress the need for quali-
fied rehabilitation counselors; and
Whereas credentialed rehabilitation coun-
selors provide a higher quality of service to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.063 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1909
March 14, 2019
individuals in need of rehabilitation, and the
development of an accreditation system for
rehabilitation counselors supports the con-
tinued education of rehabilitation coun-
selors: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 22, 2019, as ‘‘National
Rehabilitation Counselors Appreciation
Day’’; and
(2) commends—
(A) rehabilitation counselors for their
dedication and hard work in providing coun-
seling to individuals with disabilities who
are in need of rehabilitation; and
(B) professional organizations for their ef-
forts in assisting individuals with disabil-
ities who are in need of rehabilitation.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 118—RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THOSE IN-
DIVIDUALS WHO HAVE FAITH-
FULLY SERVED AND RETIRED
FROM THE ARMED FORCES OF
THE UNITED STATES, DESIG-
NATING APRIL 18, 2019, AS ‘‘MILI-
TARY RETIREE APPRECIATION
DAY’’, AND ENCOURAGING THE
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
TO HONOR THE PAST AND CON-
TINUED SERVICE OF MILITARY
RETIREES TO THEIR LOCAL COM-
MUNITIES AND THE UNITED
STATES
Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. CRUZ,
Mr. JONES, Mr. DAINES, Mr. MURPHY,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. RUBIO, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
WICKER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. ROUNDS,
and Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 118
Whereas there are approximately 2,000,000
retirees of the Armed Forces of the United
States who have earned their retirement
through career service, a service-connected
disability, or both;
Whereas military retirees show an
unrivaled dedication to service, having faith-
fully served their country and dedicated
much of their lives knowing that at any mo-
ment they could be sent anywhere in the
world and possibly asked to make the ulti-
mate sacrifice to protect and defend the na-
tional security of the United States;
Whereas military retirees, through their
perseverance and dedication—
(1) have proven to be leaders who are resil-
ient, focused, disciplined, well-trained, and
well-educated; and
(2) bring the best qualities of citizenship in
the United States to lifelong service within
their national and local communities as de-
pendable, responsible citizens and neighbors;
Whereas the qualities of a military retiree
often result in positive contributions to—
(1) the civilian workforce, as experienced
and knowledgeable employees;
(2) local educational institutions, as teach-
ers, counselors, and coaches;
(3) local government, as elected public
servants; and
(4) communities, as dedicated and effective
volunteers;
Whereas the dedication and focus of mili-
tary retirees helps strengthen and stabilize
local communities; and
Whereas the contributions of military re-
tirees to their communities are the mani-
festation of the desire of the retirees to con-
tinue their selfless acts of volunteering and
their lifelong service to the United States:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 18, 2019, as ‘‘Military
Retiree Appreciation Day’’; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to honor the past and continued serv-
ice of military retirees to their local commu-
nities and the United States through appro-
priate ceremonies and other activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 119—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS OF WORLD
TUBERCULOSIS DAY TO RAISE
AWARENESS ABOUT TUBER-
CULOSIS
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
SULLIVAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 119
Whereas 1⁄4 of the population of the world
is infected with the tuberculosis bacterium
(commonly referred to as ‘‘TB’’);
Whereas the World Health Organization
(commonly referred to as the ‘‘WHO’’) esti-
mates that 10,000,000 people developed TB in
2017, nine percent of whom were also infected
with the human immunodeficiency virus
(commonly referred to as ‘‘HIV’’);
Whereas, in 2017, TB killed an estimated
1,600,000 people, causing more deaths world-
wide than any other single infectious agent;
Whereas 2⁄3 of new TB infections in 2017 oc-
curred in India, China, Indonesia, the Phil-
ippines, Pakistan, Nigeria, Bangladesh, and
South Africa;
Whereas TB is a leading killer of people in-
fected with HIV, and 300,000 people with HIV
died of TB in 2017;
Whereas additional vulnerable populations
at high risk for developing TB include preg-
nant women and newborns;
Whereas TB is one of the six leading causes
of death among adult women between the
ages of 15 and 49 in low-income countries,
and women with TB can face stigma, dis-
crimination, and in some settings
ostracization by their families and commu-
nities;
Whereas the global TB epidemic and the
spread of drug-resistant TB present a per-
sistent public health threat to the United
States because the disease does not recognize
borders;
Whereas antibiotic-resistant pathogens are
a growing problem worldwide, and drug-re-
sistant TB can occur when the drugs used to
treat TB are misused or mismanaged;
Whereas studies have demonstrated direct
person-to-person transmission of drug-resist-
ant TB;
Whereas multi-drug resistant TB (com-
monly referred to as ‘‘MDR-TB’’) is caused
by bacteria with resistance to rifampin and
isoniazid, the two most potent treatments
for TB infection;
Whereas, according to the 2018 WHO Global
Tuberculosis Report, in 2017 an estimated 3.5
percent of all new TB cases and 18 percent of
previously treated cases were MDR-TB or
rifampin-resistant TB;
Whereas, in 2017, an estimated 558,000 peo-
ple around the world developed MDR-TB or
rifampin-resistant TB, yet only approxi-
mately 25 percent of those individuals have
been identified and treated;
Whereas extensively drug-resistant TB
(commonly referred to as ‘‘XDR-TB’’) is a
rare type of TB that is resistant to nearly all
medicines, and therefore can be very dif-
ficult and expensive to treat, especially
among patients with HIV and acquired im-
mune deficiency syndrome (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘‘AIDS’’);
Whereas, according to the 2018 WHO Global
Tuberculosis Report, in 2017, 127 countries
reported at least one case of XDR-TB;
Whereas, in 2017, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention estimated that the
cost of treating a single patient with MDR-
TB in the United States averaged $164,000,
and the average cost of treating a patient
with XDR-TB was even higher at $526,000,
compared with $19,000 to treat a patient with
drug-susceptible TB;
Whereas MDR-TB and XDR-TB cases in the
United States between 2005 and 2007 collec-
tively cost the health care system an esti-
mated $53,000,000, according to an analysis by
the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates that costs result-
ing from all forms of TB in the United States
totaled more than $460,000,000 in 2017;
Whereas, in a 2000 report, the Institute of
Medicine found that a decrease in TB control
funding and the spread of HIV and AIDS
caused a resurgence of TB in the late 1980s
and early 1990s;
Whereas a total of 9,105 TB cases were re-
ported in the United States in 2017, rep-
resenting all 50 States and the District of Co-
lumbia, and up to 13,000,000 people in the
United States are estimated to be living with
latent TB infection;
Whereas 75 percent of States have reported
an increase in the proportion of complex
cases of TB in recent years due to factors
such as homelessness, HIV infection, drug re-
sistance, substance abuse, refugee status,
and other factors;
Whereas the rate of TB disease in African
Americans is eight times higher than the
rate in White non-Hispanic Americans, and
significant disparities exist among other mi-
norities in the United States, including Na-
tive Americans and Alaska Natives, Asian
Americans, and Hispanic Americans, with 86
percent of all reported TB cases in the
United States in 2016 occurring in racial or
ethnic minorities;
Whereas, globally in 2017, an estimated
1,000,000 children developed TB and 230,000
children died of TB;
Whereas smoking greatly increases the
risks of contracting TB and TB recurrence
and impairs the response to treatment;
Whereas diabetes is a major risk factor for
TB, and people with diabetes are more likely
to develop TB and have a higher risk of
death due to TB;
Whereas bedaquiline is an antibiotic that
boosts an MDR-TB patient’s chance of sur-
vival from approximately 50 percent to as
much as 80 percent, and through a public-pri-
vate partnership, the United States Agency
for International Development (commonly
referred to as ‘‘USAID’’) provided approxi-
mately 30,000 treatments in 110 countries
from 2015 through the end of February 2018;
Whereas Bacillus Calmette-Guerin, a TB
vaccine that is known as ‘‘BCG’’, provides
some protection to infants and young chil-
dren but has had little epidemiologic impact
on TB worldwide;
Whereas there is a critical need for new
drugs, diagnostics, and vaccines for control-
ling the global TB epidemic;
Whereas, in September 2018, the United Na-
tions held the first high-level meeting on TB
in which 120 countries, including the United
States, signed a political declaration com-
mitting to accelerating the TB response, in-
cluding by increasing funding for TB control
programs and research and development ef-
forts, with the goal of reaching all affected
people with TB prevention and care;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.065 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1910 March 14, 2019
Whereas the enactment of the Tom Lantos
and Henry J. Hyde United States Global
Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis,
and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008
(Public Law 110–293; 122 Stat. 2918), and the
Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–392; 122 Stat. 4195)
provided a historic United States commit-
ment to the global eradication of TB, includ-
ing a commitment to treat 4,500,000 TB pa-
tients and 90,000 MDR-TB patients between
2009 and 2013 and to provide additional treat-
ment through coordinated multilateral ef-
forts;
Whereas USAID—
(A) provides technical assistance to 22
countries highly burdened by TB to build
self-reliance and support the adoption of
state-of-the-art TB-related technologies;
(B) supports the development of new di-
agnostic and treatment tools; and
(C) supports research to develop new vac-
cines and other new methods to combat
TB;
Whereas, in 2018, USAID launched—
(A) a new business model entitled ‘‘Glob-
al Accelerator to End Tuberculosis’’ to ac-
celerate progress and build self-reliance
with respect to TB prevention and treat-
ment; and
(B) a new mechanism to directly support
local organizations in priority countries;
Whereas TB incidence in the countries that
receive bilateral TB funding from the United
States through USAID has decreased by
nearly 1⁄4 since 2000;
Whereas, according the Copenhagen Con-
sensus Center, TB prevention programs re-
turn $56 for each dollar invested, which is
one of the highest returns on investment of
any health intervention;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, partnering with other enti-
ties of the United States and individual
States and territories, directs the national
TB elimination program, coordinates TB sur-
veillance, technical assistance, and preven-
tion activities, and helps to support the de-
velopment of new diagnostic, treatment, and
prevention tools to combat TB;
Whereas the National Institutes of Health,
through its many institutes and centers,
plays the leading role in basic and clinical
research on the identification, treatment,
and prevention of TB;
Whereas the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria (commonly re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Global Fund’’), to which the
United States is a top financial donor, pro-
vides more than 65 percent of all inter-
national financing for TB programs;
Whereas, to date, Global Fund-supported
programs have detected and treated more
than 17,400,000 cases of TB; and
Whereas March 24, 2019, is World Tuber-
culosis Day, a day that commemorates the
date in 1882 on which Dr. Robert Koch an-
nounced his discovery of Mycobacterium tu-
berculosis, the bacteria that causes TB: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals of World Tuber-
culosis Day to raise awareness about tuber-
culosis;
(2) commends the progress of tuberculosis
elimination efforts by entities that include
the United States Agency for International
Development, the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, the National Institutes
of Health, the World Health Organization,
and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuber-
culosis, and Malaria; and
(3) reaffirms the commitment to strength-
en the United States leadership and effec-
tiveness of the global response to tuber-
culosis with the goal of ending the tuber-
culosis epidemic.
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 200. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
ALEXANDER) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the joint
resolution H.J. Res. 46, relating to a national
emergency declared by the President on Feb-
ruary 15, 2019; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 200. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and
Mr. ALEXANDER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the joint resolution H.J. Res. 46, re-
lating to a national emergency de-
clared by the President on February 15,
2019; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Fentanyl and fentanyl analogues were
responsible for more than 28,400 overdose
deaths in the United States in 2017, accord-
ing to the National Institute of Drug Abuse.
(2) According to the Department of Home-
land Security, U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection has reported that fentanyl smuggling
between ports of entry at the southern bor-
der of the United States more than doubled
from fiscal year 2017 to fiscal year 2018.
(3) According to the Department of Home-
land Security, in the past 5 years, U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection has seen a 620
percent increase in families—or those posing
as families—apprehended at the border, with
fiscal year 2018 being the highest on record
for family apprehensions at the border.
(4) The journey to the southern border for
women and children traveling from Central
America is fraught with incredible danger,
including increased risk of violence and sex-
ual abuse from gangs and coyotes.
(5) The bipartisan Secure Fence Act of 2006
(Public Law 109–367; 120 Stat. 2638) was
signed into law on October 26, 2006, and man-
dated that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity achieve and maintain operational
control of the international land border,
using physical infrastructure as well as
other means, to ensure ‘‘the prevention of all
unlawful entries into the United States, in-
cluding entries by terrorists, other unlawful
aliens, instruments of terrorism, narcotics,
and other contraband’’.
(6) Over the past 25 years, the United
States Government has constructed 654 miles
of physical barriers on the southern border.
(7) The Department of Homeland Security
is only seeking to expand the physical bar-
rier on the southern border in operationally
necessary locations, not to build a physical
barrier for all 1,954 miles of the southern bor-
der.
(8) U.S. Customs and Border Protection has
identified 17 high priority locations on the
southern border where there is a current
operational need for physical barriers.
(9) On January 6, 2019, the President re-
quested that Congress appropriate
$5,700,000,000 for the construction of approxi-
mately 234 miles of new physical barriers to
fully fund the top 10 high priority locations
identified by U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection.
(10) On February 15, 2019, the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–6)
was signed into law, providing the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security with
$1,375,000,000 for ‘‘the construction of pri-
mary pedestrian fencing, including levee pe-
destrian fencing, in the Rio Grande Valley
Sector’’.
(11) On February 15, 2019, the President an-
nounced the Treasury Forfeiture Fund would
provide to U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion $601,000,000 for physical barriers along
the southern border under the authority of
section 9705 of title 31, United States Code,
which established the Fund and allows the
Secretary of the Treasury to provide monies
from the Fund for use ‘‘in connection with
the law enforcement activities of any Fed-
eral agency’’.
(12) On February 15, 2019, the President an-
nounced that Department of Defense funds
would be made available from the Depart-
ment’s Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug
Activities account for physical barriers
along the southern border under the author-
ity of section 284 of title 10, United States
Code, which authorizes the Secretary of De-
fense to ‘‘provide support for the
counterdrug activities or activities to
counter transnational organized crime of
any other department or agency of the Fed-
eral Government’’, including for the
‘‘[c]onstruction of roads and fences and in-
stallation of lighting to block drug smug-
gling corridors across international bound-
aries of the United States’’.
(13) Section 8005 of division A of the De-
partment of Defense and Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (Public Law 115–245) permits
the Secretary of Defense to transfer up to
$4,000,000,000 of funds to other accounts, in-
cluding the Department of Defense’s Drug
Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities ac-
count, provided that ‘‘such action is nec-
essary in the national interest’’.
(14) The sum of the amounts described in
paragraphs (10) through (13) is $5,976,000,000,
an amount in excess of the $5,700,000,000
sought by the President for 234 miles of
physical barriers along the southern border
in the request described in paragraph (9).
(15) On June 27, 2013, the Senate agreed to
the Border Security, Economic Opportunity,
and Immigration Modernization Act (S. 744,
113th Congress), which was introduced by
Senator Charles E. Schumer (Democrat of
New York), and included the following con-
gressional finding: ‘‘As a Nation, we have the
right and responsibility to make our borders
safe, to establish clear and just rules for
seeking citizenship, to control the flow of
legal immigration, and to eliminate illegal
immigration, which in some cases has be-
come a threat to our national security.’’.
f
NOTICE OF INTENT TO OBJECT TO
PROCEEDING
I, Senator MIKE BRAUN, intend to ob-
ject to proceeding to H.R. 269, a bill to
reauthorize certain programs under the
Public Health Service Act and the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and re-
sponse, to clarify the regulatory frame-
work with respect to certain non-
prescription drugs that are marketed
without an approved drug application,
and for other purposes, dated March 14,
2019 for the following reasons as stated
in the RECORD.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 6
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.065 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1911
March 14, 2019
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, March 14,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, March 14, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Finan-
cial stability oversight council
nonbank designation.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, March 14, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Thursday, March 14, 2019, at
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The President’s Fiscal year 2020
budget.’’
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Thursday, March 14, 2019, at
1:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘The President’s Fiscal year 2020 budg-
et.’’
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
March 14, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a
closed hearing.
f
NATIONAL CEREBRAL PALSY
AWARENESS DAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 113, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 113) designating
March 25, 2019, as ‘‘National Cerebral Palsy
Awareness Day.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 113) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF MARCH 21, 2019,
AS ‘‘NATIONAL ROSIE THE RIV-
ETER DAY’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 114, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 114) expressing sup-
port for the designation of March 21, 2019, as
‘‘National Rosie the Riveter Day.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
further ask unanimous consent that
the resolution be agreed to, the pre-
amble be agreed to, and the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 114) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, MARCH 15,
2019, THROUGH MONDAY, MARCH
25, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Friday,
March 15, 2019, at 11 a.m.; Tuesday,
March 19, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.; Thursday,
March 21, 2019, at 2:10 p.m. I further ask
that when the Senate adjourns on
Thursday, March 21, 2019, it next con-
vene at 3 p.m., Monday, March 25, 2019,
and that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, and the time for the
two leaders be reserved for their use
later in the day, morning business be
closed, and the Senate proceed to exec-
utive session and resume consideration
of the Bade nomination; finally, that
notwithstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motions filed during
today’s session ripen at 5:30 p.m., Mon-
day, March 25, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of Senator SULLIVAN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Alaska is recog-
nized.
f
TRIBUTE TO PETER KAISER
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
that time of day on the Senate floor
when I get to recognize someone spe-
cial from my State, someone we refer
to as the Alaskan of the Week, some-
one who makes our great State of Alas-
ka, in my opinion, the best and most
unique State in the country. I know it
is the pages’ favorite speech of the
week as well. I don’t think you are
going to be disappointed with this one,
the young men and women here work-
ing as pages.
Now, some may take issue with the
claim of the most unique State in the
Union, but consider this: Right now we
have teams of mushers and their dogs
that are barreling 900 miles across the
State of Alaska toward the city of
Nome in some of the harshest condi-
tions and some of the most difficult
and rugged terrain on the planet Earth.
The Iditarod—the ‘‘Last Great Race on
Earth’’—is still under way in Alaska.
Right now, mushers, literally as we
speak, are rolling in to Nome today, to-
morrow, and in the next few days.
We salute all of the mushers and
their dogs, the athletes—these dogs are
great athletes—for their hard work. We
are particularly proud this year. For
the first time in history, three
women—Page Drobyn, Jessie Royer,
and Aliy Zirkle—are among the top ten
finishers in the Iditarod.
Like all races, there is a winner, and
our Alaskan of the Week—we see a
great picture of him and his dogs
here—is the winner. After 9 days, 12
hours, 39 minutes, and 6 seconds on the
trail, at 3:39 a.m., yesterday morning,
in Nome, AK, Bethel resident Peter
Kaiser crossed the finish line in Nome
to win this year’s Iditarod.
This win is also historic for a number
of reasons. Pete is the first person from
Bethel, AK, to win the race. He is the
fifth Alaska Native to win and the first
Alaskan of Yupik descent to take the
title.
A crowd was there waiting for him. It
seemed like half the town of Bethel
was there waiting for him. As he
crossed the finish line, they were
chanting: Way to go, Pete. Way to go,
Pete. Alaska Native dancers performed.
There were hugs and tears of joy all
around. His wife Bethany was there.
Their two children, Ari Joseph and
daughter Aylee, were also there.
This is also exciting because of the
race’s historic roots. Before I talk
more about Pete, for a little bit, let me
take you back to a remarkable piece of
history that happened in Nome, AK, in
1925, when diphtheria serum was des-
perately needed in Nome for several
very sick children.
It was 1925, in Alaska, and the near-
est batch of serum was 1,000 miles away
in Anchorage. There weren’t—and, un-
fortunately, there still aren’t—any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR6.068 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1912 March 14, 2019
roads between Nome and Anchorage.
As a matter of fact, Alaska has almost
200 communities that don’t have any
roads connecting them to other places.
There were no commercial airlines
back then. The nearest train station to
Nome was roughly 700 miles away. So,
in the winter, people traveled mostly
by dog sled.
On the night of January 27, 1925,
musher ‘‘Wild Bill’’ Shannon tied a 20-
pound package of serum wrapped in
protective fur around his sled. He and
his nine dogs started the hundreds-of-
miles journey—the ‘‘Great Race of
Mercy’’ it was called back then—across
the frozen Alaska land. The entire Na-
tion was watching. This was reported
in newspapers all across America.
Wild Bill went for some time. Miles
later, he met up with another racer and
another team of dogs, and this relay of
dog mushers carrying the serum for the
sick kids in Nome continued until the
lifesaving serum reached Nome 5 days
later—pretty remarkable.
The original race, as I mentioned, in
1925, began to be reenacted, with some
twists, in 1973. There were no relays
and just one musher and his dogs run-
ning the whole route. It continues
today in honor of that lifesaving mis-
sion that happened—and saved the
kids, by the way—in Nome almost a
century ago.
What a race it is. The mushers face
frostbite, howling winds, and blizzards.
They risk getting lost in the great
Alaskan wilderness. In fact, they risk
their lives along the way.
Entering the race at all requires
fierce determination, but winning the
race, like Peter Kaiser just did, re-
quires even more than determination.
It requires years of grueling training,
it requires guts, and it requires an
Alaskan-sized heart. That is what Pete
Kaiser has.
Let me tell you a little about Pete,
our Alaskan of the Week and our 2019
Iditarod champ.
He is 31 years old. He was born and
raised in Bethel, and he traces his
mushing roots back to his great-grand-
father, who came into the country as a
gold miner and made extended trips
with his dog team from the interior
part of the State to Bristol Bay. His
great-grandfather met and married a
beautiful Yupik woman who had been
raised in an orphanage, and that was
his great-grandmother.
He grew up with dogs. He and his sis-
ter loved mushing. When Pete was in
college, he decided he really wanted to
know everything about dogs that he
could, and that passion turned into dog
mushing full time in the great State of
Alaska. According to him, that
mushing, that determination, and that
hard work gave his life focus and pur-
pose.
Pete has won another race, Bethel’s
Kuskokwim 300, four times in a row,
and he has run every Iditarod since
2010, placing fifth three different times.
This year, he won it all. He took the
gold.
This was not an easy year on the
trail. In 2017, it was one of the coldest
Iditarods on record. Most of the trail
most of the time out there was 30, 40,
or maybe even 50 below zero. It was
very cold, very dark. This year, inter-
estingly, was one of the warmest. The
lack of snow in some areas presented
challenges. One area of the trail—al-
most 80 miles, on what we call tussocks
or rolling tundra—was in many areas
without snow. It was like mushing over
bowling balls, said Pete after he won.
But he kept his cool and ran a stra-
tegic, determined race, and, impor-
tantly, he knew the area. While other
mushers trained in the more urban
areas, he stuck with rural Alaska,
where the trail really gets rough, and
he knew how to handle it.
He husbanded his strength and the
power of his dogs to maneuver into po-
sition on the Bering Sea coast toward
the end of the race. It was there, as
other teams faltered, that he charged
to victory, besting a good friend of his
by just minutes, one of the closest fin-
ishes in Iditarod history.
Yesterday I got to call Pete to con-
gratulate him. He said at the end, dog-
tired, that it was all a blur. They don’t
sleep much—for almost 9 days.
Speaking of dogs, he said that his
champion dogs were eating a lot right
now and getting a well-deserved rest.
You can see some of those beautiful
dogs, who by the way, love to run.
They love to run.
In Alaska, our Iditarod winners are
like rock stars. They become very fa-
mous overnight. Pete will be no dif-
ferent. He will be an inspiration to so
many, partly because of his hometown
and his humble roots.
Myron Angstman, another longtime
musher and Pete’s hero, said that most
local mushers aren’t sponsored. He
said: ‘‘They’re not wealthy and they
don’t have a family kennel already es-
tablished.’’ But Pete’s success will in-
spire others.
Pete agrees. When a reporter asked
him what his victory means for his
community and for smaller towns in
Alaska, he said that it ‘‘shows that
somebody’’ from out in the rural parts
of the State ‘‘can have a dream and put
it all together and work hard and
things can happen like this.’’ Those are
inspiring words, and I am sure we will
see new generations of mushers heed-
ing Pete’s call and jumping into the
field as a result of his example and his
success.
Thank you, Pete, for reminding all of
us that with enough hard work, grit,
guts, and determination, any kid from
any small town or any village can fol-
low their dreams and make them a re-
ality.
Congratulations, again, to you and
your wonderful, hard-working dogs on
being the 2019 Iditarod champ, and con-
gratulations for being our Alaskan of
the Week.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate stands adjourned until 11 a.m. to-
morrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 5:01 p.m.,
adjourned until Friday, March 15, 2019,
at 11 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
MICHAEL O. JOHANNS, OF NEBRASKA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MILLENNIUM
CHALLENGE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF TWO YEARS.
(REAPPOINTMENT)
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
TROY D. EDGAR, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE CHIEF FINAN-
CIAL OFFICER, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
VICE CHARLES H. FULGHUM.
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
EDWARD W. FELTEN, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 29, 2025. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate March 14, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
DONALD W. WASHINGTON, OF TEXAS, TO BE DIRECTOR
OF THE UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
JANICE MIRIAM HELLREICH, OF HAWAII, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORA-
TION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 31, 2024.
ROBERT A. MANDELL, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JAN-
UARY 31, 2022.
BRUCE M. RAMER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JAN-
UARY 31, 2024.
IN THE COAST GUARD
COAST GUARD NOMINATION OF ALEXANDER C. FOOS,
TO BE CAPTAIN.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
RODNEY HOOD, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 2, 2023.
TODD M. HARPER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING APRIL 10, 2021.
FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW
COMMISSION
WILLIAM I. ALTHEN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW COM-
MISSION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS EXPIRING AUGUST
30, 2024.
MARCO M. RAJKOVICH, JR., OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH
REVIEW COMMISSION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS EXPIR-
ING AUGUST 30, 2024.
ARTHUR R. TRAYNOR III, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY
AND HEALTH REVIEW COMMISSION FOR A TERM EXPIR-
ING AUGUST 30, 2022.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G14MR6.065 S14MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E307
March 14, 2019
DIVIDED FAMILIES
REUNIFICATION ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
announce the introduction of my Divided Fami-
lies Reunification Act, and to raise the voices
of families who have been separated for dec-
ades both across the DMZ and across the Pa-
cific Ocean.
The division of the Korean Peninsula into
South and North Korea separated millions of
Koreans from their family members. While
there have been some agreed upon reunions
between South and North Koreans, for Korean
Americans there is no pathway for such re-
unions. Many of these Americans are in their
70s–90s, and time is of the essence to be re-
united with their families.
I am proud to introduce the Divided Families
Reunification Act, which requires the Secretary
of State or a designee to consult with officials
in South Korea on potential opportunities to
reunite Korean American families with family
members in North Korea. This bill will also re-
quire the Special Envoy on North Korean
Human Rights to submit a report on the op-
portunities for video reunions between Korean
Americans and family members in North
Korea.
Thank you to my colleagues, Chairman
BRAD SHERMAN, Rep. KAREN BASS, Rep. BAR-
BARA LEE, Rep. JAMES P. MCGOVERN, Rep.
JAN SCHAKOWSKY, Rep. ELEANOR HOLMES
NORTON, Rep. GILBERT CISNEROS, Rep. ROB
WOODALL, and Rep. TULSI GABBARD for sup-
porting this bipartisan legislation.
f
DREAM AND PROMISE ACT
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to urge this Congress to provide permanent
relief to the Dreamers, Deferred Enforcement
Departure, and Temporary Protected Status
holders whose lives have been turned upside
down by the Administration. We must pass
H.R. 6, the Dream and Promise Act, without
delay.
Fourteen months ago, the Department of
Homeland Security announced that it was
ending TPS for nearly 200,000 Salvadorans in
the United States. The Department’s decision
about Salvadorans’ TPS was just the latest in
a string of such announcements since the fall
of 2017—which also threaten Sudanese, Hai-
tian, and Nicaraguan immigrants. Families
have been living in a state of fear and uncer-
tainty for a year and a half, and for no good
reason.
Madam Speaker, I’d like to explain why this
is not only cruel policy, but also unnecessary
and short-sighted. Recently, I had the pleas-
ure of speaking with Irma Flores. Irma is a
community engagement specialist for the city
of Somerville, Massachusetts, where she as-
sists the Spanish-speaking community. She
lives in Haverhill, in my District, with her
daughter, who goes to school at UMass Bos-
ton. Her son graduated from Suffolk University
with degrees in International Relations and
Political Science. Irma, herself, studied Inter-
national Relations in her native country at the
University of El Salvador. However, she and
her kids fled to the United States 18 years ago
because of a devastating earthquake.
For nearly two decades, the United States
has been Irma’s home and her children’s
home. The people of Somerville depend upon
her; and she is a beloved part of the Haverhill
community.
It is estimated that there are more than
12,000 people living in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts with Temporary Protected Sta-
tus—half of whom are from El Salvador. How-
ever, people like Irma have had their lives up-
ended by the callousness of the Administra-
tion’s policy.
If Irma’s story isn’t persuasive enough for
Congress to act, consider the fact that the law,
despite the Administration’s claim, does not
require her return. That’s because we have
the power to permit extensions if these resi-
dents are unable to return in safety.
The United States does not—and should
not—return people to disaster areas or
warzones. In January, our State Department
renewed its travel advisory to El Salvador. The
warning reads: ‘‘Violent crime, such as mur-
der, assault, rape, and armed robbery, is com-
mon. Gang activity, such as extortion, violent
street crime, and narcotics and arms traf-
ficking, is widespread.’’ These are not condi-
tions under which families should be forced to
return.
But if the legal argument is not persuasive
either, consider the fact that TPS holders con-
tribute nearly $650 million to the Common-
wealth’s economy. One analysis found that if
Salvadoran, Honduran, and Haitian workers
with TPS were removed from the labor force,
the United States would lose $164 billion in
gross domestic product over the next decade.
Again, Madam Speaker, this is cruel, unnec-
essary and shortsighted policy. This Congress
should approve the Dream and Promise Act,
which provides a permanent fix for Dreamers,
DACA, and TPS recipients without delay, so
that people like Irma and her family can re-
main safely here as members of our commu-
nities.
f
RECOGNIZING WINNETT ACES
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the members of Winnett ACES
for leading efforts to encourage economic
growth, revitalize their community, and protect
its future.
Concerned about the decreasing population
of rural America, Winnett ACES (Agricultural
and Community Enhancement and Sustain-
ability) formed in 2016 to strengthen its com-
munity so that future generations will live,
work, and raise their families there.
The group’s first program to take off was
Winnett Beef in the School, which serves lo-
cally-raised beef to the local K–12 school sys-
tem. Led by local producer Charlie Ahlgren,
area ranchers made a three-year commitment
to donate beef, about four cows per year, to
the program. Other volunteers helped cut and
deliver the fresh product. Within three months,
the program had successfully launched, sav-
ing money for the schools to use on other
education priorities.
Winnett ACES is also leading a revitalization
project to build a community center. Land has
been donated, and grant money awarded to
design the center, which will accommodate
300 people.
Another project, known as grass banking, is
underway after a feasibility study produced the
program’s guidelines. Local ranchers and
landowners lease their lands for summer graz-
ing in exchange for conservation work. Seven
individuals will each graze 100 or more cattle
when the program launches this spring.
These projects are a few of the inventive
approaches Winnett ACES is taking to
strengthen its community.
Madam Speaker, for their innovative efforts
to bolster their community’s future, I recognize
the members of Winnett ACES for their spirit
of Montana.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF TRISH
MORRIS-YAMBA
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in honoring a life well lived.
Trish Morris-Yamba was an early childhood
education visionary from South Orange, New
Jersey. She passed away peacefully on March
8, 2019.
Ms. Morris-Yamba was called to serve chil-
dren and community at a young age. When
she was in college, she established a campus
child care center for adult students. After com-
pleting her master’s degree, she opened the
CHEN School and served as founding presi-
dent of Newark, New Jersey’s Early Childhood
Coalition. Over the years, Ms. Morris-Yamba
served as president of the board of trustees at
the Newark Public Library, a trustee of the
New Jersey Performing Arts Center Women’s
Board Association, a board member for New-
ark Emergency Services for Families, and ex-
ecutive director of Newark Day Center and the
Greater Newark Fresh Air Fund, among other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MR8.001 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E308 March 14, 2019
roles. Ms. Morris-Yamba was the epitome of a
community servant, and the thousands of lives
she touched are grateful for her visionary
leadership.
Ms. Morris-Yamba will be forever remem-
bered for her belief that society must serve the
total child. She had a love of learning and a
passion for passing knowledge along to future
generations. Throughout Newark, Essex
County, and all of New Jersey, countless chil-
dren grew into civic-minded adults because of
Ms. Morris-Yamba’s work.
Trish Morris-Yamba was an active member
of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a member of Bethany
Baptist Church in Newark, a loving wife, moth-
er, grandmother, and aunt. I ask that my col-
leagues join me to celebrate Ms. Morris-
Yamba and to honor her legacy.
f
HONORING MR. JOHN ALFIREVICH
FOR BEING NAMED THE 2019
TIME DEALER OF YEAR
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Mr. John Alfirevich of Apple
Chevrolet in Tinley Park for being named the
2019 TIME Dealer of the Year. It is an honor
to recognize not only a successful business-
man, but someone who has demonstrated a
longstanding commitment to our community.
The TIME Dealer of the Year award was
created in 1970 by TIME magazine in partner-
ship with Ally Financial and the National Auto-
mobile Dealers Association. It is an award
honoring new-car dealers in the United States
for exceptional performance and distinguished
community service. This year, Mr. Alfirevich
was selected from 51 nominees out of more
than 16,000 franchised dealers throughout the
country. Criteria for the TIME award include
sales record, customer and employee satisfac-
tion, and service to the community.
Mr. Alfirevich began his career in the car
business at the age of 12 at Bob Motl Chev-
rolet in Chicago, the company that would later
become Apple Chevrolet. From there, he con-
tinued his journey, working in every depart-
ment, eventually coming to own the dealership
along with his father. Mr. Alfirevich credits his
dealership’s success to its emphasis on hon-
esty and transparency in every transaction.
His integrity also guides his philanthropic en-
deavors. In 2015, he served as the chairman
of First Look for Charity, a fundraising celebra-
tion held before the Chicago Auto Show, rais-
ing $3 million to benefit Chicago-area char-
ities. Further, under his leadership, Apple
Chevrolet made charitable contributions to al-
most 100 organizations in 2018.
As the 2019 TIME Dealer of the Year, Mr.
Alfirevich is recognized for his integrity, dedi-
cation, and service. Madam Speaker, I ask my
colleagues to join me in recognizing Mr.
Alfirevich. He is well deserving of this award
and I am proud to represent such a talented
and charitable businessman.
HONORING SYLVIA S. BANKS
HON. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER
OF DELAWARE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to honor a friend, a colleague,
a confidant, and a great Delawarean on the
occasion of her semi-retirement. Sylvia Banks
has served as my State Director since I was
first sworn in as Delaware’s member of Con-
gress. While new members have a host of dif-
ficult decisions to make when assuming office,
naming Sylvia as the leader of my team was
by far my easiest. From her extensive experi-
ence as the Manager of Corporate Contribu-
tions Program at the DuPont Company, to her
work as a founding trustee of the Metropolitan
Wilmington Urban League, Sylvia’s resume
even before this job was long and impressive.
It’s why I had to convince Sylvia to end her
much-deserved retirement early to come and
join my team. But it wasn’t just her experience
that made Sylvia a must-have. Her wise coun-
sel had served me well personally for years
and anyone who has spent any amount of
time with her can testify to her calming, as-
sured presence and her incredibly sharp
sense of humor.
Luckily for me, and for my whole team, Syl-
via’s sense of public service won the day, and
we made a deal that she would serve as State
Director for 1 year. Well, Madam Speaker, 2
years and some months later, I’m happy to
say that I got the better end of that bargain.
Sylvia is now trying retirement again after fail-
ing the first time. Lucky for all of us, I man-
aged to strike another deal with Sylvia. She
will be staying on the team part-time as a
Senior Advisor, meaning for all of us, her wise
counsel will never be more than a phone call
away. For her end of the deal, Sylvia will now
have more time for her most important job;
mother, grandmother, and golfer.
Sylvia Banks has left a lasting mark on my
office and our State of Delaware, setting a
very high bar, both professionally and person-
ally for which we can all strive. I am eternally
grateful for her work.
f
IN HONOR OF EDWARD WINFIELD
TAYLOR
HON. DAVID ROUZER
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, it is an
honor to bring to the attention of this distin-
guished body Mr. Edward Winfield Taylor of
Clinton, North Carolina, who recently cele-
brated his 90th birthday. Mr. Taylor is a dedi-
cated community leader in Sampson County
and in commemoration of Mr. Taylor’s out-
standing achievements and service to the
community, Mayor Lew Starling of Clinton pro-
claimed Saturday, February 9, 2019, as ‘‘Ed-
ward W. Taylor Day.’’
This is a well-deserved honor. Mr. Taylor
helped shape countless lives during his 36-
year tenure as an admired teacher and band
director at Clinton High School. He even went
on to earn induction into the North Carolina
Bandmasters Association Hall of Fame in
2011. Mr. Taylor helped make a small-town
band competitive with some of largest bands
across the state, marching in several national
parades such as the Lion’s International Pa-
rade in New York and the Cherry Blossom
Festival in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Taylor’s service to the community ex-
tended beyond his role as a teacher and band
director. He taught Bible school at Graves Me-
morial Presbyterian Church for twenty years
and coached baseball and football at the Clin-
ton Recreation Department for fifteen years.
Not only has he dedicated his life to serving
his community and youth, he also served in
the United States Air Force where he was a
drum major for the marching band.
Edward Taylor and many others just like
him brought liberty to millions throughout the
world during a very dark time of world-history,
and he is one of the giants of his time who
made America great by doing his part day in
and day out to influence the lives around him
and serving our country every step of the way.
Congratulations to Mr. Taylor on 90 great
years. May God continue to bless him.
Madam Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the proclamation of the mayor of Clinton.
‘‘EDWARD W. TAYLOR DAY’’
HAPPY 90TH BIRTHDAY
Whereas, family and friends will come to-
gether at Coharie Country Club, 101 Coharie
Lane, Clinton, NC, on this day, Saturday,
February 9, 2019, and celebrate the life of
MR. EDWARD W. TAYLOR; and
Whereas, February 12, 2019, will mark the
90th birthday of this outstanding man of
Clinton, Sampson County, North Carolina;
and
Whereas, Mr. Edward W. Taylor was born
February 12, 1929 in Roanoke Rapids, North
Carolina; and
Whereas, he has been blesed throughout
the years and others have been blessed by
him in many ways. He has contributed much
to the City of Clinton and surrounding areas
as a band director at Clinton High School for
36 years that won titles at the state and na-
tional levels in some of the most prestigious
events; and
Whereas, his name is known throughout
the land: he led Clinton High School bands
that marched the Lion’s Club Parade in New
York, Atlanta, and New Orleans and won
events at the Cherry Blossom Festival in
Washington, DC; the Dogwood Festival in
Knoxville, TN; and the Apple Blossom Fes-
tival in Winchester, VA; and
Whereas, he also served as choir director at
Graves Memorial Presbyterian Church for
several years.
Now, therefore, I, Lew Starling, Mayor of
the City of Clinton, North Carolina, do ex-
tend good wishes and hereby proclaim this
day, Saturday, February 9, 2019, as: ‘‘ED-
WARD W. TAYLOR DAY’’.
In Witness Whereof, I do hereunto set my
hand and seal of said City of Clinton, this
the 9th day of February, 2019.
LEW STARLING,
Mayor.
f
REMEMBERING PATRICIA HOWARD
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to pay a special tribute to a great woman of
Memphis, Patricia Claxton Howard, a staunch
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MR8.004 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E309
March 14, 2019
advocate of women’s rights and girls’ em-
powerment. Mrs. Howard had a lengthy Mem-
phis lineage—one of her uncles played in
W.C. Handy’s band and her parents had a
hair styling shop and a tire repair business on
opposite sides of Chelsea Avenue. After grad-
uating as the salutatorian of her Manassas
High School class, she was admitted to South-
western at Memphis, an early African Amer-
ican pioneer integrating what is now Rhodes
College. It was as a sociology major at South-
western that she got involved with an embry-
onic Girls Club of Memphis as a work-study
project, an association that lasted more than
50 years during which she rose to become its
President and CEO. She also served as the
regional director of Girls Inc., and on the
board of the national organization. Mrs. How-
ard also served as the executive director of
the Memphis Center of Reproductive Health
and on the board of the Memphis Regional
Planned Parenthood. Mrs. Howard was in-
ducted into the Memphis Chapter of The
Links, Inc., in 1987 and served over the years
as its vice president, president and financial
secretary. Always active in her community,
Mrs. Howard was on the Memphis and Shelby
County Collaborative for American Humanities;
the Community Forum; the Work Force Invest-
ment Agency; the Coalition of 100 Black
Women; and the Blue Ridge Institute for Com-
munity Services Executives in the Southeast.
She was also a member of Leadership Mem-
phis ’86. In 2017, she received the Girls Inc.
of Memphis SMART Award. She received the
Black Students Association Alumni of the Year
Award from Rhodes in 2004, the 1999 Pin-
nacle Leadership Award from Youth United
Way, the Thomas W. Briggs Community Serv-
ice Award, the 1997 Mertie Buckman Mentor
Award from the Women’s Foundation and the
1992 Women of Achievement Vision Award. I
want to extend my sincere condolences to her
husband of 48 years, Aubrey; her son Adrian;
her extended family and her many loving
friends. She led an exemplary life and will be
missed.
f
HONORING BRITTANY WELSH’S
SENIOR PROJECT
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Brittany Welsh, a senior
at First Colonial High School. Brittany is an
example of true perseverance and dedication,
and I am honored to share her story.
Brittany Welsh recently underwent surgery
to have one of her kidneys removed due to an
issue causing high blood pressure. At such a
young age, Brittany persevered through health
complications and used her experience to help
others. Brittany dedicated her senior project to
raising awareness of the need for organ dona-
tions. She decided to fundraise for Lifenet, a
provider of transplant solutions. Brittany’s
project will include an acoustic concert by a
well-known local band, educational speakers,
and speakers who have received an organ do-
nation. Her senior project will not only raise
awareness, but will also provide much-needed
funds for organ donations.
Brittany is an example to all of us that organ
donations can save lives. She also dem-
onstrates how to persevere through trials and
use an experience to help others. I am hon-
ored to recognize Brittany’s story today.
f
REMEMBERING REP. LOUISE
SLAUGHTER
HON. STENY H. HOYER
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, this House
suffered a tremendous loss a year ago. Louise
Slaughter was not just a Congresswoman and
Rules Committee Chair and Ranking Member.
She was a respected colleague and a dear
friend. She and I served together for more
than thirty years in this House, and I will al-
ways remember her for her tenacity, her con-
fidence, and her determination to make the
American Dream attainable for everyone in
this country.
Louise’s drive to fight for better conditions
for working people in New York and in our
country can be traced to her childhood. The
daughter of a blacksmith from a Kentucky coal
mining town, she grew up with a thorough un-
derstanding of the challenges faced by those
working hard and trying to make it in America.
Those experiences shaped her as a legislator
in her adopted home of upstate New York,
where she fought to ensure that communities
had safe drinking water, clean air, and eco-
nomic opportunities.
In Congress, Louise dedicated herself to
these same causes while promoting human
rights and freedom abroad. We served to-
gether on the Helsinki Commission at the end
of the Cold War, and I fondly recall traveling
with her to the former Soviet Union, where we
shared the experience of meeting with leaders
and citizens of the newly independent states
yearning to embrace American-style demo-
cratic institutions. I got to know her late hus-
band Bob on those journeys and remember
him fondly as well.
Back home, Louise made a difference for
our country in Congress, serving as the Chair-
woman and Ranking Member of the Rules
Committee. In that position, she helped shape
nearly every piece of legislation passed when
Democrats held the Majority from 2007 to
2011, including the Recovery Act, Affordable
Care Act, Dodd-Frank, and student loan re-
forms. Working Americans owe Louise
Slaughter a debt of gratitude for being their
champion and fighting so hard over the years
on their behalf.
As we remember Louise, let us remember
her for the courage she displayed, for her in-
defatigable nature, and for her wisdom and
wit. I join with my colleagues in marking the
one-year anniversary of her passing, and I ex-
tend once more my condolences to her family.
I thank Rep. TONKO for leading the House’s
tribute, and I thank Rep. MORELLE for con-
tinuing his predecessor’s commitment to out-
standing service for the people of New York’s
Twenty-Fifth District.
HONORING JOHN DAVIS
HON. CATHY McMORRIS RODGERS
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the career of
John Davis. John served as the Military and
Veterans Liaison for Washington’s Fifth Con-
gressional District for the last 4 years, though
his service to our country spans over 40
years.
When you hear about John’s family’s past
perhaps it is no surprise that he too followed
in their great footsteps of service to this na-
tion.
Did you know he can trace his family’s his-
tory back almost 200 years? And throughout
that history, members of John’s family line
have fought in almost every major battle in-
cluding most of the major battles here in the
United States, from the Revolutionary War all
the way up to the Gulf War.
John continued his family’s legacy by serv-
ing as a crew chief on a C–130 for the United
States Air Force during the war in Vietnam.
He served tours in Korea, Japan and Israel
and all around the United States. John was
the original ‘‘rocket man,’’ working in ICBM
missile units as a combat crew member, plan-
ner and maintenance officer.
During his service, John was awarded the
Lance P. Sijan Award, recognizing individuals
who have demonstrated the highest qualities
of leadership in their jobs and lives. John con-
tinues to be a leader in his service for his
brothers and sisters in the armed forces. From
helping the widow of a veteran facing eviction
due to a filing error stay in her home to stay-
ing late in the night to hear from 29 veterans
who walked into our office in Colville to ensure
their voices were heard, John led with a spirit
of service.
John spent more than 14 years assisting
our Veterans who were homeless through the
VA Homeless Programs as well as working as
a mental health professional, serving as a
senior clinician on the Involuntary Treatment
Team. His passion to help our veterans con-
tinues to this day. Each year hundreds of vet-
erans reach out to my office as their last hope,
and when they called John was there, ready
to fight for them, and get them the care and
help they earned.
Forty years of faithful, diligent service to this
nation deserves to be recognized, and I am so
honored to be able to do so in this way. To
my friend John Davis, I can never say thank
you enough for all you have done for Eastern
Washington veterans, for my office, and for
America. His retirement is well deserved.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF CON-
GRESSWOMAN LOUISE SLAUGH-
TER
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the late Congresswoman Louise
Slaughter.
Today, Democrats are in the Majority.
Twenty-eight women are leading committees
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.002 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E310 March 14, 2019
or subcommittees. And, the issues that Louise
championed are moving. We are proud to pick
up the torch that she left.
I commit to you, Louise, to fight for antibiotic
resistant research, for equal pay for equal
work—she was the chair of rules when we
passed Lily Ledbetter—for ethics in govern-
ment with regards to Supreme Court justices,
and for trade agreements that work for work-
ing people. Louise and I fought against
NAFTA and the TPP.
Each of those priorities were Louise’s. Now,
they are at the forefront of our agenda.
This is Louise Slaughter’s majority. We miss
her voice in the Congress, but we are moving
forward with a positive agenda for the people.
And it is because of her.
We miss Louise. We love her. And, we
thank her.
f
RECOGNIZING RABBI ISRAEL
ZOBERMAN’S ARTICLE
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Rabbi Israel Zoberman and include
in the RECORD this article, Learning a Shared
History of Sorrow:
On February 22, 2019, George Washington’s
birthday, during Black History Month, I was
privileged to travel to the Smithsonian Na-
tional Museum of African American History
and Culture, close to the Washington Monu-
ment on the inspiring National Mall of our
nation’s capital. I was in good company for
the long-awaited tour organized by the Vir-
ginia Beach Human Rights Commission. The
44 passengers on the bus included members of
the Commission, of which I am a grateful
member, representation of the Virginia
Beach City Council and the Mayor’s office
along with the Virginia Beach Police Depart-
ment, students and staff of the Virginia
Beach City Public Schools as well as leaders
of the African American Culture Center of
Virginia Beach. What an impressive array of
civic commitment!
As a family member of the Holocaust’s sur-
viving remnant of European Jewry. I knew
ahead of the searing visit of the tragic bond
between the African American experience
and the destruction of European Jewry, of
the binding bond among all affected by infec-
tious racial, religious, ethnic, national and
gender hatred seeking to demean, dehuman-
ize and demonize the ‘other’. There is an un-
mistakable thread connecting the 2015 mur-
der of 9 Black members at Emanuel African
Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston
S.C., with the gunning down of 11 Jewish
worshippers at a Sabbath service in Pitts-
burg’s Tree of Life Synagogue in 2018; be-
tween the historical lynchings of Blacks and
the 2017 White Supremacist mayhem in Char-
lottesville, Virginia, resulting in a murder,
with the dreaded shouts of ‘‘Jews will not re-
place us!’’ still ringing in our ears. Vitriolic
anti-Semitism is precipitously on the rise in
the United States and Europe.
The imposing structure of the African
American Museum stands within sight of the
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. I recalled
my first visit there and the subsequent ones,
when I felt the overcoming sense of uncon-
trollable loss. It was the same sensation of
being assaulted to the core of my humanity
that I experienced traveling the challenging
halls of the African American Museum. Yet,
I emerged from both encounters with greater
resolve to mend the world, Tikkun Olam,
turning blemishes into blessings. Who can
remain untouched gazing at the casket of
brutally murdered 14–year-old Emmett Till
and the photo of his agonizing mother, the
only exhibit we are forbidden to photograph
that we should focus uninterruptedly?
We were guided by an incredible docent
telling the story of proud Africans forcibly
and so cruelly separated from their rich
roots and brought to America—those who
made it through the terrifying Middle Pas-
sage—and brought here to be violated of all
that is sacred. Both they as slaves and Eu-
rope’s Jews were deemed sub-human. The
former ones by colonial powers and a new
America promising to advance liberty’s
cause, and the latter ones by a Germany re-
garded the world’s most civilized nation. The
vital Jewish and African American partner-
ship during the Civil Rights Movement of the
1960s, needs to be revitalized in the context
of a wider coalition to move America for-
ward.
I wish that both museums could be con-
nected by a bridge or a tunnel to visualize
their inseparable bond. Recently heroic
French Father Patrick Desbois had a memo-
rable presentation in Virginia Beach. He is
renowned for documenting unknown Nazi
massacres with local collaboration in occu-
pied lands during WWII along with ISIS’s
mass crimes in Iraq. He shares a stunning
statement in his unsettling book, In Broad
Daylight, that applies as well to the inhu-
mane treatment of African Americans, ‘‘I
feel a mounting disgust for our species. The
sort of nausea that makes you want to quit
the human race.’’ But we dare not quit the
human race. Great strides have taken place
though progress is an arduous work in the
making. The large number of visitors at the
museum, particularly the many students, is
a hopeful sign. We dare not despair of past
and present pain, for that only serves the
hateful aggressor, while indifference, as Eli
Wiesel taught us, only enables evildoers to
succeed.
We need better tools to fight the scourge
and resurgence of all forms of hatred, big-
otry and discrimination. Democracies are at
risk of backsliding, as was the case in Ger-
many, and require eternal vigilance.
A precious teachable window is open to us
following trying circumstances, as we cele-
brate this year the 400th Anniversary of Vir-
ginia with its dark shadows and shining
lights. Let us pledge, one diverse but united
family, to rise together higher and higher.
f
RETIREMENT OF ROBERT SEWELL
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the service of a longtime
area union leader, Mr. Robert Sewell, and to
wish him well in his retirement.
Bob is a second-generation plumber, and
like his father before him, a proud union mem-
ber. After beginning his career as an appren-
tice with Plumbers and Steamfitters Local 159
in 1979, Bob has remained a member for
nearly 40 years, serving as an officer and a
prominent member of union leadership.
In 2002, Bob was elected as the union’s Fi-
nancial Secretary Treasurer and has served
as its Business Manager since 2016. Among
many other responsibilities, Bob led the Local
in partnering with other regional unions to ne-
gotiate project labor agreements. Thousands
of residential units in Contra Costa County
benefited from his efforts to ensure that all
workers earn a living wage and benefits.
Bob has also been a leader in collaborating
with community organizations to encourage
environmental responsibility in development,
and has promoted workforce training through
his role as the chair of the Local’s Joint Ap-
prenticeship Training Committee.
After a long career of fighting for working
people, Bob is now retiring. Please join me in
congratulating Mr. Robert Sewell for a life of
hard work and service, and in wishing him
luck in his next chapter.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE NATIONAL
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOME
RULE ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the National Capital Planning Com-
mission District of Columbia Home Rule Act.
This bill would remove the authority of the Na-
tional Capital Planning Commission (NCPC) to
review or approve the development of District
of Columbia-owned land. This bill would also
remove the requirement that the Mayor of the
District get NCPC’s approval before selling
D.C.-owned real estate, and would allow D.C.
agencies to transfer jurisdiction over District-
owned land among themselves without
NCPC’s approval.
Under federal law, the development of Dis-
trict-owned public buildings, including the loca-
tion, height, bulk, number of stories and size
of such buildings, in the ‘‘central area’’ is sub-
ject to NCPC approval. The District is required
to consult with NCPC on its buildings outside
the central area, but NCPC has only advisory
authority in those areas. The central area is
defined by the concurrent action of NCPC and
the D.C. Council, and currently consists of the
Downtown and Shaw Urban Renewal Areas.
This authority is unnecessary, as shown by
the virtual absence of its use to disapprove
sales or development. This latent authority of
the federal government should not be able to
slow or block the development of District-
owned land, or add to the cost of develop-
ment. The District is not a federal agency, and
should not be treated any differently by federal
law than other local jurisdictions, where local
development proceeds without federal inter-
ference.
NCPC consists of 12 members, three ap-
pointed by the President, two appointed by the
Mayor, the Mayor, the Chair of the D.C. Coun-
cil, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary
of Defense, the Administrator of General Serv-
ices, and the Chairs of the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee
and the House Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee.
This bill is one more important step to in-
crease home rule for the District, and I urge
my colleagues to support this bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.006 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E311
March 14, 2019
HONORING OHEF SHOLOM
TEMPLE’S 175TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Ohef Sholom Temple’s
175th anniversary. Ohef Sholom Temple is a
strong light in the Norfolk community. The fact
that Ohef Sholom has provided a spiritual
home across many generations throughout its
175-year history clearly shows the Temple’s
importance to the community. Ohef Sholom
Temple stays true to its mission and works for
the betterment and welfare of Norfolk.
Since Ohef Sholom was established in 1844
and is the largest and oldest Reform Jewish
congregation in Hampton Roads, it has been
a welcoming and open community to all peo-
ple. The words written above the sanctuary
doors ring true: ‘‘My house shall be called a
house of prayer for all peoples. ‘‘
I am proud to honor and recognize Ohef
Sholom for this important milestone. I know
Norfolk and Hampton Roads are better be-
cause of Ohef Sholom Temple’s leadership,
congregation, and good work.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I regret that
due to the funeral services for Seaman First
Class Earl Paul Baum. I was forced to travel
back to my district and miss the vote on
amendments and final passage of H.R. 1.
Had I been present, I would have voted nay
on Roll Call No. 115; nay on Roll Call No.
116; yea on Roll Call No. 117; and nay on
Roll Call No. 118.
f
CONCERNS REGARDING H. RES. 183
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to express my concern regarding
H. Res. 183, Condemning anti-Semitism as
hateful expressions of intolerance that are
contradictory to the values and aspirations that
define the people of the United States and
condemning anti-Muslim discrimination and
bigotry against minorities as hateful expres-
sions of intolerance that are contrary to the
values and aspirations of the United States.
This resolution fails to condemn a specific act
perpetrated by one of my colleagues, there-
fore rendering this resolution pointless. By
broadly condemning every act of hatred, we
condemn nothing. My colleagues consumed
hours on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives to debate a commonsense sentiment in-
stead of passing meaningful policy to better
the lives of Americans and condemning the
specific statement of antisemitism made by a
Member of the House of Representatives.
HONORING MIKE POULSON
HON. CATHY McMORRIS RODGERS
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Mike Poulson’s
career and service to Washington’s Fifth Con-
gressional District as Senior Policy Advisor fo-
cusing on Agriculture and Natural Resources.
Mike’s experience with farming extends
back to his family settling in the Columbia
Basin of Washington State after his father
went through the very detailed process of eli-
gibility to purchase land in the Connell area.
After graduating from Connell High School,
Mike enlisted in the Army National Guard be-
cause, in his words, ‘‘he just assumed that ev-
erybody pulled a stint in the military.’’ In 1965,
Mike bought some farmland of his own in a
unit close to his family unit and started to build
his own home. In the mid 1980s, Mike was
elected Vice President of the Washington
State Farm Bureau, a position he took on
even while farming full time.
Mike ventured outside of farming in the
1990s when he began consulting on public
policy and environmental issues. Mike had a
way of being able to communicate complex,
and often controversial, environmental issues
to the public. I had the fortune of meeting him
during my time in the Washington State House
and came to have a deep respect for his un-
derstanding of these issues which affected
many in my district. A few short months after
I was elected to the U.S. House of Represent-
atives, Mike leased out his farmland and
joined my staff—becoming the longest serving
member on my team until his retirement on
February 28, 2019.
Mike has many significant accomplishments
in his career including: developing solutions
for Columbia Basin water shortages; speaking
out against the harmful impacts of the Waters
of the United States regulation; combatting the
recent falling numbers of our wheat and co-
ordinating an effort to find long-term solutions
with the Washington Grain Commission and
Washington State University; and bringing the
A to Z project to fruition on the Colville Na-
tional Forest—which is a national model for re-
storing the health of our forests. In the words
of Derek Sandison, Director for the Wash-
ington State Department of Agriculture ‘‘Mike
has the ability to sort through rhetoric around
complex issues to get to the core facts and
quickly get to the right side of the issues.’’
I am grateful for his friendship, advice, and
most importantly, service to Eastern Wash-
ington over the past 15 years. I wish Mike well
in his retirement.
f
HONORING THE CITY OF NORFOLK
LIFEGUARDS FOR THEIR EXCEL-
LENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Lifeguard Lieutenants
Courtney Hutchens and Madeline Solano and
Lifeguards Beatty Barnes and Robert Warren
for their excellent emergency response during
an emergency on September 1, 2018, in
Ocean View, Norfolk, Virginia.
Each lifeguard recognized the situation and
responded promptly with the proper treatment
the injured swimmer needed. They met the
proper protocol and fulfilled the action plans
required for an emergency.
Because of their exceptional and rapid re-
sponse, these lifeguards received the 2018 Dr.
Frank Pia Lifesaving Award from the Virginia
Lifeguard Association Annual Aquatic Manage-
ment Symposium. This is a great honor.
I am sincerely thankful that Virginia has life-
guards like them to watch over and guard our
Commonwealth. I am confident our beaches
are a safer place because of their presence.
f
REMEMBERING JOHN KILZER
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to remember my friend John Kilzer, a man
who embodied the very essence of Memphis
as a Memphis State basketball player, tal-
ented musician and songwriter and Methodist
minister specializing in recovery from addic-
tion. John died Tuesday night at 62. Born in
Jackson, Tennessee, he spent most of his life
in Memphis. An All-American high school bas-
ketball player, he came to the then-Memphis
State Tigers roster as a good outside shooter
and a scrapper. A chance encounter with leg-
endary Stax guitar player Mabon ‘‘Teenie’’
Hodges in a Memphis State dorm room led to
his serious study of guitar playing and a song-
writing career. He went on to become an
English Literature professor at his alma mater
and also received a master’s degree in divinity
from the Memphis Theological Seminary in
2006 and a Ph.D. from Middlesex University in
Britain in 2010. John’s evident lyrical skill with
poetic storytelling resulted in two early albums
produced by David Geffen—the roots-rock
1988 ‘‘Memory in the Making’’ and the 1991
‘‘Busman’s Holiday’’—and appearances on
MTV. His ‘‘Seven’’ was produced by Grammy
Award winner Matt Ross-Spang. More re-
cently, his 2014 ‘‘Hide Away’’ marked the re-
turn of an artist at the height of his powers, an
album graced with such all-star talent as Kirk
Whalum on saxophone; Hold Steady’s Sid
Selvidge, Alvin Youngblood Hart and Stax’s
Bobby Manuel on guitar; North Mississippi All
Stars Luther Dickinson on mandolin, Rick Steff
on keyboards and Greg Murrow on drums.
When I learned of his death this morning, I
played John’s ‘‘Until We’re All Free,’’ which
Whalum co-wrote and plays on, and I want to
hear ‘‘Sleeping in the Rain’’ again tonight.
Some of John’s songs were recorded by such
artists as Roseanne Cash (‘‘Green, Yellow
and Red’’), Maria Muldaur, Dobie Gray and
Trace Atkins. His most recent album, ‘‘Scars,’’
came out in January, and he was scheduled
to play the Beale Street Music Festival in May.
John will be remembered in Memphis for his
weekly Friday night recovery ministry at St.
John’s United Methodist Church that he called
‘‘The Way,’’ begun in 2010. John was beset
by the demon of alcohol and knew the inside
of jails but did a lot of good for a lot of people
with his exceptional talents. As one admirer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.010 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E312 March 14, 2019
said today, his recovery is now complete. He
will be missed.
f
IN HONOR OF THE VIRGINIA BANK-
ERS ASSOCIATION BANK DAY
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
HON. JENNIFER WEXTON
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the following proclamation.
Whereas, the Virginia Bankers Association
conducts an annual Bank Day Scholarship
Program throughout the Commonwealth, held
on the third Tuesday in March, to provide the
opportunity for young Virginians to better un-
derstand the vital role of banks and the finan-
cial services industry in the Commonwealth;
and
Whereas, the Virginia Bankers Association
organizes Bank Day as a means of involving
high school students and banks in the Com-
monwealth in this endeavor to identify poten-
tial future career opportunities available in the
banking sector; and
Whereas, since every citizen benefits from a
basic understanding of the economic system
and the wide variety of banking industry ca-
reer opportunities available to students upon
graduating, it is appropriate that the industry
works closely with the Virginia education com-
munity to promote personal finance and eco-
nomic education; and
Whereas, Bank Day allows seniors from Vir-
ginia high schools to shadow bankers in their
communities for a day to learn about banking
operations, financial services and products,
potential career opportunities in banking, and
the vital role banks play in their community
and with their customers; and
Whereas, the Virginia Bankers Association
and Virginia banks have reached more than
2,000 high school students through this pro-
gram since 2012; and
Whereas, participating students write essays
on the topic, ‘‘What did you learn on Bank Day
that will help you manage your financial future
and what did you learn about how banks sup-
port their communities,’’ to help students con-
sider their own personal financial decision-
making; and
Whereas, thirteen scholarships totaling
$26,000 are awarded annually based on the
merits of the essays to assist winners pursue
their higher education endeavors; and
Whereas, the Virginia Bankers Association,
through their Education Foundation, has
awarded a total of $137,000 in scholarships to
66 Virginia high school students since 2012,
helping to defray the cost of higher education
tuition for future leaders continuing their edu-
cation and career preparation: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved That the House of Representa-
tives—
1) Commends the Virginia Bankers Associa-
tion for their valuable contribution to the eco-
nomic education of the youth of the Common-
wealth;
2) Honors the Virginia banks that participate
in the annual Bank Day Scholarship Program;
and
3) Encourages banks to continue to support
the Bank Day Scholarship Program and other
financial literacy and career awareness oppor-
tunities in their communities.
f
HONORING CONGRESSWOMAN
LOUISE SLAUGHTER
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Congresswoman
Slaughter’s legacy and the impact she made
throughout her decades of dedicated public
service.
She was a friend and an invaluable mentor,
especially during my first term in Congress.
She paved the way for every woman in the
House by becoming the first Chairwoman of
the Rules Committee—the same committee I
now serve on.
She spearheaded the passage of the Afford-
able Care Act, one of the most consequential
pieces of legislation in recent history.
Congresswoman Slaughter was also a
fierce and fearless champion for women.
She co-authored the Violence Against
Women Act and founded and co-chaired the
Pro-Choice Caucus—which to this day, con-
tinues to be on the frontlines of protecting
women’s reproductive rights.
As we near the anniversary of her passing,
I can’t help but to be reminded of her unparal-
leled leadership. She’s left a void in the House
that is hard to fill.
But her memory lives on inside these halls,
and it inspires each of us to keep up the fight
to better the lives of all Americans.
I am grateful for the opportunity to have
served alongside her.
f
RECOGNIZING THE THIRTEENTH
ANNUAL TASTE OF INDIA 2019
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Thirteenth Annual Taste of India
2019. This is a very special event which oc-
curs annually in Norfolk, Virginia.
The Hampton Roads region is lucky to have
such an active Asian Indian community. The
Hampton Roads Asian Indian community con-
sists of wonderful people who make our region
a better place.
The annual Taste of India event has been
an amazing success and has hosted local,
state, and federal officials. Taste of India pro-
vides all Hampton Roads residents with a val-
uable cultural, political, and educational expe-
rience. Taste of India is crucial for Hampton
Roads’ awareness, education, and enjoyment.
This event will continue to thrive for many
generations to come.
CONGRESSIONAL TEACHERS
AWARDS IN FLORIDA’S 16TH
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT
HON. VERN BUCHANAN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. BUCHANAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of outstanding public
school teachers in Florida’s 16th Congres-
sional District.
I was once told that children are 25 percent
of the population, but they are 100 percent of
the future.
And it’s true. The education of a child is an
investment, not only in that student, but in the
future of our country.
Therefore, I established the Congressional
Teacher Awards to honor educators for their
ability to teach and inspire students.
An independent panel has chosen the fol-
lowing teachers from Manatee and Sarasota
counties for Florida’s 16th District 2019 Con-
gressional Teacher Award for their accom-
plishments as educators:
Marissa Dobbert for her accomplishments
as a 7th Grade Math Teacher at Sarasota Mili-
tary Academy Prep;
Elizabeth Harris for her accomplishments as
a 3rd, 4th, and 5th Grade Interventionist at
Myakka City Elementary School;
Chris King for his accomplishments as a
6th–9th Grade Special Education Teacher at
Haile Middle School;
Kate Kramer for her accomplishments as an
English as a Second Language Teacher at
Fruitville Elementary School;
Kari McMillan for her accomplishments as a
Math Teacher at Palmetto High School;
Ashlee Middleton for her accomplishments
as an 11th and 12th Grade English and Read-
ing Teacher at Sarasota High School;
Nancy Miller for her accomplishments as a
3rd Grade Teacher at Ballard Elementary
School;
Kymberli Rivers for her accomplishments as
a Literature and English Teacher at Manatee
High School;
Maria Underhill for her accomplishments as
an 8th Grade Reading Teacher at Braden
River Middle School.
On behalf of the people of Florida’s 16th
District, I congratulate each of these out-
standing teachers and offer my sincere appre-
ciation for their service and dedication.
f
CELEBRATING THE GROUP 3
STATE CHAMPION MOORESTOWN
HIGH SCHOOL QUAKERS BOYS’
BASKETBALL TEAM
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the Moorestown High School Quak-
ers boys’ basketball team, who on Sunday
won the Group 3 State Championship for the
first time in 60 years.
Led by 2018 Burlington County Coach of
the Year, Shawn Anstey, and a strong roster
from starters to reserves, the Quakers showed
incredible teamwork and perseverance all sea-
son. From clutch shooting, to diving for loose
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.015 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E313
March 14, 2019
balls and making hustle plays, the team’s bal-
ance and focus helped them play through a
tough schedule to bring home the school’s first
state championship since 1959.
In the State Final, Moorestown’s strong fun-
damentals and a focus on doing the little
things right helped propel them to victory: they
shot well from the free-throw line late in the
game to secure the title. The Quakers played
through pressure in the final to finish the sea-
son on a 14-game winning streak, ending the
year at 27–5.
I’m proud to be able to celebrate the suc-
cess of some of the talented student-athletes
from my district in New Jersey. I want to con-
gratulate Coach Anstey and the Moorestown
boys on their tremendous season and wish
them luck in the Tournament of Champions.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE COREY
JONES ACT
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Corey Jones Act, which
is named after a young man who was taken
from us far too soon under circumstances far
too tragic and preventable to be allowed to
happen again.
During the early hours of October 18, 2015,
Corey Jones of Lake Worth, Florida, was shot
and killed by Nouman Raja, a plainclothes po-
lice officer operating an unmarked vehicle.
Corey was legally and peacefully pulled to the
side of the road awaiting roadside assistance
when he was approached by Mr. Raja. Corey
had no reason to believe that the person in
plainclothes and driving an unmarked vehicle
was a law enforcement officer. This uncer-
tainty and confusion ultimately led to a tragedy
that could have been easily avoided.
After Corey’s tragic death, I met with mem-
bers of his family as well as officials from
Palm Beach County. We discussed the ur-
gency of addressing the issue of plainclothes
officers in unmarked vehicles engaging in rou-
tine traffic stops. I promised that I would work
to promote safer policing practices in our com-
munities and the Corey Jones Act helps to ac-
complish this goal.
Madam Speaker, Nouman Raja, the officer
involved in the tragic shooting death of Corey
Jones, was recently found guilty of man-
slaughter and attempted murder. In an effort
to ensure that this tragedy does not happen to
other families, I respectfully ask my colleagues
to lend their support to this important bill.
f
HONORING THE UNVEILING CERE-
MONY FOR THE PORTRAITS
FROM A PLACE OF GRACE PUB-
LIC ART INSTALLATION
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize the new public art instal-
lation, Portraits from a Place of Grace. This
beautiful and thought-provoking artwork will be
installed at the future home of the African
American Cultural Center of Virginia Beach.
The African American Cultural Center
(AACC) worked hard over the last year to
make this happen. Staff partnered with Rich-
ard Hollant, a renowned artist, on a series of
portraits and interviews with Virginia Beach’s
14 historically African American neighbor-
hoods.
The installation features people and stories
that capture the community’s history. I com-
mend the community for taking the next step
in building the African American Cultural Cen-
ter of Virginia Beach.
Recognizing the important contributions of
African Americans to the history, development,
and success of our region is vital to appre-
ciating the journey in building our community.
The vivid visual representation and poignant
audio interviews will promote, preserve, and
celebrate the inspiring pioneers of our commu-
nity.
f
INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTION
RECOGNIZING THE HERITAGE,
CULTURE, AND CONTRIBUTIONS
OF LATINAS IN THE UNITED
STATES
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, one in six
women in the United States is a Latina. There
are currently nearly twenty-eight million His-
panic women living in the United States.
Latinas have been part of our nation’s fabric
from the start. They contribute to our nation
through their work in business, education,
science and technology, engineering, mathe-
matics, literature and the arts, the military, and
public service at every level of the govern-
ment. Many have overcome a unique set of
challenges and have paved their own paths to
success. During National Women’s History
Month, I want to honor the millions of Latinas
who have contributed to our nation.
Therefore, I am reintroducing a resolution
recognizing the heritage, culture, and contribu-
tions of Latinas in the United States. This res-
olution will recognize their contributions to
American society and further celebrates those
who have inspired the next generation.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH
ANNIVERSARY OF IRWIN MARINE
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Irwin Marine, an institution on
Lake Winnipesaukee, who is celebrating its
100th year in business. Since its founding in
1919 by Jim Irwin, Sr., Irwin Marine has al-
ways remained a pillar of the Lakes Region
community.
Irwin Marine has had a storied century-long
history. Pioneers in the recreation industry, the
Irwin family has never stopped innovating.
After founding Irwin Marine in 1919, Jim Irwin,
Sr. later went on to buy the Weirs Music Hall
in 1924, where he used the connections he
developed from his time serving with a Navy
band in World War I to draw top acts to Lake
Winnipesaukee, such as Duke Ellington and
the Dorsey Brothers. Since its distinguished
early days, Irwin Marine has continued to
maintain a stellar reputation as a trusted name
in the boating industry. Today, Irwin Marine
has three locations in the Lakes Region and
was recently named the twelfth-best boat deal-
er in North America by Boating Industry Maga-
zine; thanks to their extensive supply and
deep commitment to customer service.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s First Congressional District, I want to
congratulate everyone at Irwin Marine on an
exciting anniversary. I hope that they celebrate
this exciting achievement by taking a cruise
around Lake Winnipesaukee and wish them
the best of luck in their next 100 years of busi-
ness. I thank them for all that they do to make
the Granite State such a wonderful place to
work, live, and play.
f
HONORING DR. AMELIA ROSS-HAM-
MOND FOR HER CAREER AND
SERVICE TO HAMPTON ROADS
COMMUNITY
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Dr. Amelia Ross-Ham-
mond for her tremendous career and service
in the Hampton Roads area.
Dr. Ross-Hammond recently retired from
Norfolk State University where she taught
music and was the director of service-learning
and civic engagement. Not only has Dr. Ross-
Hammond been dedicated to her work as a
professor, but she has been a renowned pub-
lic servant. She has served on various coun-
cils and boards such as the Virginia Beach
Community Development Corporation Board,
the City’s Diversity and Inclusion Forums, and
the Mayor’s African American Roundtable—
just to name a few.
Dr. Ross-Hammond received awards for her
service to the Hampton Roads community
such as the Urban League of South Hampton
Roads Young Professionals Award for Com-
munity Service. She was also the 2016 Hon-
oree for the Norfolk State University Music De-
partment’s Spring Gala.
Dr. Ross-Hammond’s dedication to strength-
ening bonds among people of different racial,
ethnic, and religious backgrounds is truly in-
spiring. I am proud to honor and recognize Dr.
Ross-Hammond’s leadership and the role she
plays in making our community a better place.
Hampton Roads has significantly benefited
from her presence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.020 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E314 March 14, 2019
KEVIN CHARLES MURRAY, 2019 IN-
DIANAPOLIS IRISH CITIZEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the 2019 Indianap-
olis Irish Citizen of the Year, Kevin Charles
Murray.
Kevin has long been active in the Indianap-
olis Irish community. In 1981, he co-founded
the Indianapolis St. Patrick’s Day Parade and
the Celtic Cross Committee in 1990. His in-
volvement in events and advocacy for the Indi-
anapolis Irish community are too long to list,
which is why this accolade is so long overdue.
In addition to his work in the Irish commu-
nity, Kevin has worked diligently as an attor-
ney in our city for 40 years. He has used his
passion, community connections and edu-
cation to work at all levels of Indiana govern-
ment and politics. He served under former
Governor Joe Kernan, Lt. Governor Kathy
Davis, as the Senate Parliamentarian, and
most recently, under the three Marion County
Sheriffs, Sheriff Frank Anderson, Sheriff John
Layton and Sheriff Kerry J. Forestal.
Kevin’s contributions will be felt in Marion
County for generations to come. I am thankful
to consider Kevin a friend, congratulate him on
this achievement, and look forward to his con-
tinued work in our city and state.
f
HONORING BOY SCOUT ADAM
PIETRAS
HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to call attention to the true story
of Adam Pietras, a Boy Scout from my home
town of Hamilton, N.J. in the Fourth Congres-
sional District.
Adam’s remarkable courage—without any
concern for his own personal safety—and his
immediate and decisive response action lit-
erally helped save the life of his sister.
This Saturday, March 16, 2019, Adam will
be honored at a Court of Honor by his fellow
scouts of Boy Scout Troop 87, members from
the Veterans of Foreign War who host Troop
87, friends, and family. We will be proud and
humble to present him with a U.S. flag, flown
over the U.S. Capitol in his honor.
Madam Speaker, Adam was only 10, when
he acted without regard to his own safety as
he fought off a loose Bullmastiff dog that was
charging to attack his younger sister, Rachel,
then age 7, in the family’s backyard in 2015.
Though Adam sustained severe injuries from
the powerful dog, his actions enabled his sis-
ter to escape and his brother, Tyler, to run for
help. Truly, Adam and Tyler’s teamwork to
protect their little sister prevented what could
have been a tragedy. Adam was rushed to
Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital—
Hamilton. He lost a lot of blood and needed
200 stitches and months to recover.
Adam’s exceptional actions went largely un-
reported in the news and were not well known
outside his immediate family and community.
That changed when he was a guest of the
Sunshine Foundation Mercer County Chap-
ter’s 2018 Operation Dreamlift that takes chil-
dren to Disney World. Trentonian reporter L.A.
Parker happened to be on that flight, met
Adam and heard Adam’s story. In a column
detailing the dog attack and Adam’s actions,
L.A. Parker—my fellow Trenton State College
alumnus, quoted Adam as saying ‘‘Yes, I was
afraid really afraid. But I had to save my sis-
ter.’’
Adam is a student at Reynolds Middle
School in Hamilton, N.J. I’ve had the pleasure
to meet Adam’s father, Peter Pietras, who with
his wife, Lisa Pitoniak-Pietras, and family and
friends, are immensely proud of Adam. Adam,
whose outstanding love for his sister shows he
puts other people first, has a bright future.
Adam was honored by Hamilton Mayor Kelly
Yaede with a proclamation as an example of
a model citizen, and by the Boy Scouts of
America with its highest national award for life-
saving and meritorious action, the Honor
Medal With Crossed Palms. Given only for
outstanding and unusual acts that dem-
onstrate unusual heroism, skill, or bravery and
reflect Scouting ideals, the medal is only pre-
sented to Scouts who have ‘‘demonstrated un-
usual heroism and extraordinary skill or re-
sourcefulness in saving or attempting to save
life at extreme risk to self.’’ That sounds like
Adam to me.
Today it is my honor to make Adam’s her-
oism and extraordinary act a permanent part
of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
In an age of fictional movie action heroes
and comic book superheroes, this Saturday a
real-life action hero will be the star. If Adam
were in the military our nation would be look-
ing to bestow one of its highest medals for his
valor. Well done, Adam, well done.
f
HONORING DR. MICHAEL G. DAN-
IELS FOR HIS CAREER AND
SERVICE TO THE HAMPTON
ROADS COMMUNITY
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Dr. Michael G. Daniels
for his tremendous career and service in the
Hampton Roads area.
Dr. Daniels is a true academic with bach-
elor’s and master’s degrees in Business Man-
agement and Administration, and a doctoral
degree in Ministry. Not only is Dr. Daniels an
academic, but he is a true public servant. Dr.
Daniels is dedicated to serving and leading
Enoch Baptist Church, a congregation of ap-
proximately 1,200.
Dr. Daniels has received various honors for
his commitment to service in Hampton Roads.
He received honors from the Virginia Beach
Chapter of the NAACP for his community
service and the Virginia Beach Civil Rights
Commission for advocating for the rights of
residents.
Dr. Daniels’ dedication to strengthening
bonds among people of different racial, ethnic,
and religious backgrounds is truly inspiring. I
am proud to honor and recognize Dr. Daniels’
leadership and the role he plays in making our
community a better place.
Hampton Roads has significantly benefited
from his presence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MR8.026 E14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D270
Thursday, March 14, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed H.J. Res. 46, National Emergency Declaration.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1855–S1912
Measures Introduced: Sixty-one bills and eleven
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 792–852,
and S. Res. 109–119. Pages S1898–S1900
Measures Reported:
Report to accompany S. 94, to amend the Pitt-
man-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate
the establishment of additional or expanded public
target ranges in certain States. (S. Rept. No. 116–8)
Report to accompany S. 310, to amend the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act to re-
authorize the Act. (S. Rept. No. 116–9) Page S1897
Measures Passed:
National Emergency Declaration: By 59 yeas to
41 nays (Vote No. 49), Senate passed H.J. Res. 46,
relating to a national emergency declared by the
President on February 15, 2019. Pages S1857–82
National Cerebral Palsy Awareness Day: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 113, designating March 25, 2019,
as ‘‘National Cerebral Palsy Awareness Day’’.
Page S1911
National Rosie the Riveter Day: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 114, expressing support for the designation
of March 21, 2019, as ‘‘National Rosie the Riveter
Day’’. Page S1911
Measures Considered:
Green New Deal—Cloture: Senate began consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of
S.J. Res. 8, recognizing the duty of the Federal Gov-
ernment to create a Green New Deal. Page S1882
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the joint
resolution, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a
vote on cloture will occur upon disposition of the
nomination of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Page S1882
Prior to the consideration of this measure, Senate
took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1882
Supplemental Appropriations Act—Cloture: Sen-
ate began consideration of the motion to proceed to
consideration of H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019. Pages S1882–91
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the joint
resolution, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a
vote on cloture will occur upon disposition of S.J.
Res. 8, Green New Deal. Page S1882
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Friday, March 15, 2019, at 11
a.m.; Tuesday, March 19, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.; Thurs-
day, March 21, 2019, at 2:10 p.m.; and that when
the Senate adjourns on Thursday, March 21, 2019,
it next convene at 3 p.m., on Monday, March 25,
2019. Page S1911
Bade Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Bridget S. Bade, of Ari-
zona, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit. Page S1882
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, March 14, 2019, a vote on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MR9.REC D14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D271
March 14, 2019
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, March
25, 2019. Page S1911
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1882
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
March 25, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the motions to invoke cloture filed on
Thursday, March 14, 2019, ripen at 5:30 p.m., on
Monday, March 25, 2019. Page S1911
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
Rodney Hood, of North Carolina, to be a Member
of the National Credit Union Administration Board
for a term expiring August 2, 2023.
Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31,
2024.
Robert A. Mandell, of Florida, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2022.
Bruce M. Ramer, of California, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Pub-
lic Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31,
2024.
William I. Althen, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Com-
mission for a term of six years expiring August 30,
2024.
Marco M. Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a
Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Re-
view Commission for a term of six years expiring
August 30, 2024.
Arthur R. Traynor III, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Review Commission for a term expiring Au-
gust 30, 2022.
Donald W. Washington, of Texas, to be Director
of the United States Marshals Service.
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the National Credit Union Administration Board for
a term expiring April 10, 2021.
A routine list in the Coast Guard. Page S1891
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Michael O. Johanns, of Nebraska, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation for a term of two years.
Troy D. Edgar, of California, to be Chief Financial
Officer, Department of Homeland Security.
Edward W. Felten, of New Jersey, to be a Mem-
ber of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight
Board for a term expiring January 29, 2025.
Page S1912
Messages from the House: Page S1896
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S1896
Executive Communications: Pages S1896–97
Petitions and Memorials: Page S1897
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1900–01
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1901–10
Additional Statements: Pages S1894–96
Amendments Submitted: Page S1910
Notices of Intent: Page S1910
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S1910–11
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—49) Page S1882
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:01 p.m., until 11 a.m. on Friday,
March 15, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1911.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
EBOLA OUTBREAK IN THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies concluded a hear-
ing to examine the Ebola outbreak in the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo and other emerging
health threats, after receiving testimony from Robert
Kadlec, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Re-
sponse, Robert R. Redfield, Director, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, and Anthony S.
Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and In-
fectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, all
of the Department of Health and Human Services;
and Rear Admiral R. T. Ziemer, USN (Ret.), Acting
Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Democracy,
Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United States
Agency for International Development.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the Department of Defense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MR9.REC D14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D272 March 14, 2019
budget posture in review of the Defense Authoriza-
tion Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program, after receiving testimony
from Patrick M. Shanahan, Acting Secretary, General
Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., USMC, Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and David L. Norquist, Under
Secretary (Comptroller), all of the Department of De-
fense.
FINANCIAL STABILITY OVERSIGHT
COUNCIL
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine Financial
Stability Oversight Council nonbank designations,
including S. 603, to amend the Financial Stability
Act of 2010 to require the Financial Stability Over-
sight Council to consider alternative approaches be-
fore determining that a U.S. nonbank financial com-
pany shall be supervised by the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, after receiving testi-
mony from Douglas Holtz-Eakin, American Action
Forum, Arlington, Virginia; Paul Schott Stevens, In-
vestment Company Institute, Washington, D.C.; and
Jeremy C. Kress, University of Michigan Ross School
of Business, Ann Arbor.
OUTDOOR RECREATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine opportunities to im-
prove access, infrastructure, and permitting for out-
door recreation, after receiving testimony from Whit
Fosburgh, Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partner-
ship, Washington, D.C.; Daniel Kirkwood, Juneau
Economic Development Council, Juneau, Alaska; Jef-
frey Todd Lusk, Hatfield McCoy Regional Recre-
ation Authority, Man, West Virginia; Sandra F.
Mitchell, Idaho Recreation Council, Boise; and
Thomas C. O’Keefe, American Whitewater, Seattle,
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES BUDGET
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine the President’s proposed budget request
for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Health
and Human Services, after receiving testimony from
Alex M. Azar II, Secretary of Health and Human
Services.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY BUDGET
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine the President’s proposed budget request
for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of the Treas-
ury, after receiving testimony from Steven T.
Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to consider pending intelligence mat-
ters.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 55 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1753–1807; 1 private bill, H.R.
1808; and 15 resolutions, H.J. Res. 51; H. Con.
Res. 25; and H. Res. 229–241 were introduced.
Pages H2742–46
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2747–48
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Carbajal to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2721
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H2721, H2732
Expressing the sense of Congress that the report
of Special Counsel Mueller should be made
available to the public and to Congress: The
House agreed to H. Con. Res. 24, expressing the
sense of Congress that the report of Special Counsel
Mueller should be made available to the public and
to Congress, by a yea-and-nay vote of 420 yeas with
none voting ‘‘nay’’ and four answering ‘‘present’’,
Roll No. 125. Pages H2723–32
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendments to the con-
current resolution and the preamble printed in H.
Rept. 116–17 shall be considered as adopted.
Page H2723
H. Res. 208, the rule providing for consideration
of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 24) was
agreed to yesterday, March 13th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, March 18th. Page H2732
Communication from the Clerk—Ninth Congres-
sional District of North Carolina: Read a letter
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MR9.REC D14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D273
March 14, 2019
from the Clerk wherein she transmitted to the
House a facsimile copy of a letter received from Mr.
Josh Lawson, General Counsel, North Carolina State
Board of Elections, indicating that a special election
has been ordered for the Ninth Congressional Dis-
trict of North Carolina. Page H2736
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appears
on pages H2731–32. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 12:15 p.m.
Committee Meetings
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE FISCAL
YEAR 2020 BUDGET REQUEST FOR
SEAPOWER AND PROJECTION FORCES
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on
Seapower and Projection Forces held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Department of the Air Force Fiscal Year 2020
Budget Request for Seapower and Projection Forces’’.
Testimony was heard from William Roper, Assistant
Secretary of Air Force for Acquisition, Technology
and Logistics, Department of the Air Force; and
Lieutenant General Timothy G. Fay, Deputy Chief
of Staff for Strategy, Integration, and Requirements
(A5), Department of the Air Force.
MEMBERS DAY HEARING: COMMITTEE ON
EDUCATION AND LABOR
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Members Day Hearing:
Committee on Education and Labor’’. Testimony was
heard from Chairman Waters, and Representatives
Thompson of Pennsylvania, Soto, and Mitchell.
ENHANCING VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY TO
PREVENT DRUNK DRIVING
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Enhancing Vehicle Technology to Prevent
Drunk Driving’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
PUTTING INVESTORS FIRST? EXAMINING
THE SEC’S BEST INTEREST RULE
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on In-
vestor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets held a hearing entitled ‘‘Putting Investors
First? Examining the SEC’s Best Interest Rule’’. Tes-
timony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 920, the ‘‘Venezuela Arms Restric-
tion Act’’; H.R. 854, the ‘‘Humanitarian Assistance
to the Venezuelan People Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1477,
to assess and mitigate threats posed by Russian-Ven-
ezuelan security cooperation and for other purposes;
and H.R. 1616, the ‘‘European Energy Security and
Diversification Act of 2019’’. H.R. 920, H.R. 854,
H.R. 1477, and H.R. 1616 were ordered reported,
as amended.
UNMASKING THE HIDDEN CRISIS OF
MURDERED AND MISSING INDIGENOUS
WOMEN (MMIW): EXPLORING SOLUTIONS
TO END THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee for In-
digenous Peoples of the United States held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Unmasking the Hidden Crisis of Murdered
and Missing Indigenous Women (MMIW): Explor-
ing Solutions to End the Cycle of Violence’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
HEARING WITH COMMERCE SECRETARY
WILBUR L. ROSS, JR.
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing with Commerce
Secretary Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.’’. Testimony was heard
from Wilbur L. Ross, Secretary, Department of
Commerce.
THE PRESIDENT’S FISCAL YEAR 2020
BUDGET PROPOSAL WITH U.S. SECRETARY
OF THE TREASURY STEVEN MNUCHIN
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The President’s Fiscal Year 2020
Budget Proposal with U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Steven Mnuchin’’. Testimony was heard from Steven
Mnuchin, Secretary, Department of the Treasury.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
MARCH 15, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MR9.REC D14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D274 March 14, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11 a.m., Friday, March 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, March 18
House Chamber
Program for Monday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 12 noon.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Blunt Rochester, Lisa, Del., E308
Buchanan, Vern, Fla., E312
Carson, André, Ind., E314
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E308, E311
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E313
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E309
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E310
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E311
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E307
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E313
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E309
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E311
Kim, Andy, N.J., E312
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E308
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E309, E310, E311, E311, E312,
E313, E313, E314
McMorris Rodgers, Cathy, Wash., E309, E311
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E307
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E310
Pappas, Chris, N.H., E313
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E307
Rouzer, David, N.C., E308
Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E314
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E312
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E307
Wexton, Jennifer, Va., E312
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Mar 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D14MR9.REC D14MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
