Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3451
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 2019 No. 75
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 7, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING STUDENT ATHLETES
FOR GENEROSITY AND COMMU-
NITY SERVICE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to bring attention to the out-
standing community service dem-
onstrated by the student athletes from
North Central Sports Club in Nebraska.
Harsh weather and devastating flood-
ing has hit much of Nebraska this
spring, causing destruction to many
homes and communities and agri-
culture-producing facilities throughout
our State. The recovery has not been
easy, but the hard work, dedication,
and generosity of Nebraskans has been
on full display since the disaster
struck. I want to highlight one group,
the North Central Sports Club, which
is made up of student athletes from
Rock County and Keya Paha County,
Nebraska.
These student athletes were excited
for their upcoming trip, an annual tra-
dition, after completing the hard work
of not only their competitive sports
seasons and academic requirements,
but also the fundraising which keeps
the program running. However, instead
of taking their annual trip, the stu-
dents decided to donate the funds to
help with the recovery of their neigh-
boring community, which suffered
much more of the storm’s damage.
Mr. Speaker, Nebraskans don’t scare
from a challenge, nor do they stand by
as their friends and neighbors suffer. I
am honored to recognize these student
athletes from Rock County and Keya
Paha County, Nebraska, for their gen-
erosity and community service.
f
PROTECTING AMERICANS WITH
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
this afternoon to spotlight that, a cou-
ple days from now, the House of Rep-
resentatives will be voting on H.R. 986,
which is an act protecting Americans
with preexisting conditions.
Again, this is a measure to reverse a
decision that was made last October by
the Trump administration. It was an
administrative guidance in the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services
which basically opened the doors for
States to submit waivers from the Af-
fordable Care Act’s protections for pa-
tients, which, almost universally, are
supported by the American people.
For example, in the law, it banned
the use of preexisting condition exclu-
sions by insurance companies both for
individuals applying for insurance and
for those who actually got insurance
but then had their bills denied because
of preexisting conditions.
With the stroke of a pen, in March
2010, the Affordable Care Act abolished
that practice by insurance companies,
which basically was a discriminatory
practice for people, again, who,
through no fault of their own, had med-
ical conditions which they could not
control.
It also eliminated lifetime limits. In
other words, insurance companies
capped the amount of medical bills
that they would pay, so somebody with
a cancer or a serious chronic condition
would run into those caps and basically
be in bankruptcy land.
And lastly, it established essential
health benefits, which were defined by
the Institute of Medicine, not a polit-
ical organization, based on what, in
fact, health insurance should cover, for
example, behavioral health, maternal
and child benefits, et cetera.
This decision by the Trump adminis-
tration last October basically knocked
out the guardrails in the ACA waiver
process, which, again, every observer
and commentator said would open the
door again to insurance companies
using the practice of preexisting condi-
tion exclusions.
For those who maybe have forgotten
what that looked like, I have beside me
here a chart which includes a brochure,
which Humana insurance was using
back in 2009 when it was selling health
insurance. Again, it is touting great
news for people who buy their own
health insurance, new, flexible health
coverage.
However, if you read the fine print, it
went on to say that there is important
information about preexisting condi-
tions for these conditions which would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:10 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.000 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3452 May 7, 2019
not be covered: AIDS/HIV, alcohol or
drug dependence, cancer, COPD, con-
nective tissue disorder, Crohn’s dis-
ease, diabetes, emphysema, heart at-
tack or stroke, hepatitis, inpatient
emotional or mental illness, organ or
tissue transplant, or ulcerative colitis.
Just in case maybe you survived that
litmus test, it does go on to say: ‘‘This
list is not all inclusive; other condi-
tions may apply.’’
That is what health insurance looked
like before 2010: People who, in good
faith, were paying premium dollars for
coverage, whether they were individ-
uals, small businesses, or large employ-
ers, suddenly found, with the fine print
back in those days, medical under-
writing was excluding people from get-
ting the coverage for the health insur-
ance they thought they were buying.
Also, the rude awakening of people
who had insurance suddenly having
their bills reversed—again, in good
faith, depending on insurance compa-
nies—to pay for an operation or for a
hospitalization or a doctor’s visit.
This country turned the page in 2010.
It is time to, once and for all, say that
those practices are a thing of the past.
Our bill this week, H.R. 986, will re-
store those patient protections which
the Trump administration’s executive
order, last October, reversed. Hope-
fully, the people in this Chamber will
listen to the universal support for
these patient protections all across the
country, Republicans and Democrats—
the polling shows it is off the charts—
and support this bill and block this ex-
ecutive order which would turn the
clock back for American patients and
America’s healthcare system.
f
HONORING BRIGADIER GENERAL
JOHN ‘‘ODIE’’ SLOCUM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor an outstanding member
of our community and our military on
his retirement. For more than 35 years,
Brigadier General John ‘‘Odie’’ Slocum
served our country, most recently as
the commander of the 127th Wing at
Selfridge Air National Guard Base in
Michigan’s 10th District, a post he held
from November 2014 until his retire-
ment this past weekend.
General Slocum’s career of more
than 35 years and 4,100 flight hours
began in 1984 when he received his Air
Force commission through East Caro-
lina University’s ROTC program. After
receiving his wings, Odie served his 8
years of Active Duty as an F–4 Phan-
tom and F–16 pilot and then served as
an instructor at bases in both Georgia
and Arizona.
In 1992 he joined the Arizona Air Na-
tional Guard where he served in a vari-
ety of Operations Group and head-
quarters-staff positions, many related
to F–16 flight training, before taking
over as Arizona Air National Guard’s
162nd Fighter Wing’s chief of safety
and squadron commander. During his
tenure in Arizona, he created a new Air
National Guard maintenance training
curriculum, worked to increase mental
health and suicide prevention resources
in the Air National Guard, initiated a
DOD-wide midair collision avoidance
program, and more. Because of these
actions, in 2013, Odie was inducted into
the Air Force Safety Hall of Fame.
After 1 year as the Inspector General
of the Air National Guard based at
Joint Base Andrews, in 2014 Slocum
was promoted to brigadier general and
assumed command of the 127th Wing
and Selfridge Air National Guard Base,
in my home district. It is home to 1,700
airmen operating both the A–10 Wart-
hog and KC–135 Stratotanker, as well
as host to more than 45 tenant organi-
zations from all branches of the mili-
tary and numerous DHS organizations.
Nearly 4,500 Active Duty, Guard, Re-
serve, and civilian personnel call
Selfridge Air National Guard Base
home.
Selfridge is unique, with diverse
needs due to its many missions, and
General Slocum has been an excep-
tional leader of Selfridge and our com-
munity. Under Slocum’s leadership,
the 127th Wing earned the Spaatz Tro-
phy, presented to the top flying wing in
the Air National Guard; earned an Air
Force Meritorious Unit Award; and
celebrated milestone anniversaries of
the base, 100 years, and the 127th
Wing’s two flying units, the 107th
Fighter Squadron, 100 years, and the
171st Air Refueling Squadron. Further,
last year, the 127th Wing was named
Macomb County Economic Develop-
ment Partner of the Year, and Slocum
was inducted into the Macomb County
Hall of Fame.
I have had the honor to work with
General Slocum since before I joined
Congress, and I have greatly appre-
ciated our professional relationship, as
well as the personal friendship that has
grown the last 5 years. In our nearly
weekly phone calls, Odie has worked
with me to ensure I know what is going
on at the base, I am aware of the base’s
needs, and we work together to address
the needs of the men and women who
serve in Selfridge.
It is extremely clear Odie cares deep-
ly about Selfridge, the men and women
he commands, Michigan, and our Na-
tion. We are all extremely grateful for
his decades of dedication to our Nation.
While I will miss having him com-
manding Selfridge, I know General Slo-
cum will continue to remain heavily
involved in our community to make
our place a great place to live. On be-
half of our community and our Nation,
I wish to extend him all the best in re-
tirement, and I thank him for his many
years of exemplary service.
f
EQUAL RIGHTS TO TRIBAL TRUST
LANDS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, the
Federal Government has an obligation
to equally protect the rights of all 573
federally recognized Tribal nations.
Since the passage of the Indian Reor-
ganization Act of 1934, those rights
have included the ability to have lands
placed into trust. The intent of the
original Indian Reorganization Act was
clear: to restore and to protect Tribal
homelands for all sovereign Tribal na-
tions.
Congress clearly did not intend to
limit this right based on the date of a
Tribe’s recognition. After all, Tribal
nations did not get to decide when the
Federal Government would give them
the recognition they were due. But in
2009, the Supreme Court ruling in a
case of Carcieri v. Salazar called into
question whether Tribes recognized
after 1934 should have equal rights to
trust land.
Tribal leaders united to ask Congress
for legislation to fix this problem, to
right this wrong, and I am honored to
have worked hand in hand in a non-
partisan fashion with my good friend,
Congressman TOM COLE, to lead that
effort.
Tomorrow the House will vote on
H.R. 375, a clean legislative fix that is
necessary to ensure that we are ful-
filling one of our country’s most sacred
obligations. I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support a
clean Carcieri fix.
f
THE GOLDEN SPIKE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. BISHOP) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, on
May 10, 1869, a Salt Lake paper wrote
that the people of Utah—the great pio-
neers of the Rocky Mountains—re-
ceived with acclamation the glad news
of the completion of the mighty work
to which as a people they had contrib-
uted their part; and hand in hand with
the great circle of States and terri-
tories, now rejoicing in union over the
event, did thank God for its accom-
plishments.
They were referencing the Golden
Spike which had been driven com-
pleting the first transcontinental rail-
road.
That date, May 10, will forever stand
as a tribute to the men of vision who
foresaw the potential of an empire
stretching from coast to coast in the
United States, bound together not only
by iron rails but also by a common in-
terest.
From the time of the Civil War when
this project started until three or four
decades later when the railroad system
was completed, America changed. In
1860, the United States was third in the
world in production of wheat. When the
railroad was completed, we were first.
In 1860, England produced three times
as much coal as the United States.
When the railroad was complete, not
only did we lead the world, we were
producing 110 million tons of coal more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:10 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.003 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3453
May 7, 2019
than Great Britain. During the Civil
War, England was producing six times
as much steel as we were, but when the
railroad was complete, 42 percent of all
steel was being produced in the United
States—much of that going to the rail-
road.
During the Civil War, there were only
30,000 miles of railroad track in Amer-
ica. But when the system was com-
plete, there was 167,000 miles criss-
crossing this country. Today we still
have more railroad track than any
other country, 39 percent more than
the number two country of Russia, and
more than the rest of the top 10, which
include in order China, India, Canada,
Germany, Australia, Argentina, and
France and Belgium combined, even
more than nation number 139 on that
list, the country of Lichtenstein, which
has all of 51⁄2 miles of railroad track.
The railroad made our economic ex-
plosion possible. The railroad made us
an industrial giant. Before the railroad
came, it was difficult to move goods or
even transport people. But once the
spike was driven, that was the kick-
start to what we were going to do.
Now, 150 years later, we are celebrating
the coming of the Central Pacific’s Ju-
piter with the Union Pacific’s Engine
119 meeting together in Utah’s back-
yard. The railroads still move goods,
and they also provide passenger serv-
ice.
b 1215
I still remember as a kid my parents
taking me to the Ogden train depot for
a trip somewhere into Idaho, probably
Boise. I was in my Sunday best. As we
went up to the observation car, I could
look out and see the beauty of this
America passing us by.
It is an American national historical
park. It is a place where the American
story is without equal.
In LaRue County, Kentucky, there is
the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace Na-
tional Historical Park.
In Seneca, New York, there is the
Women’s Rights National Historical
Park.
In Ohio, you can visit the Dayton
Aviation National Historical Park
where you can walk into the bicycle
shop where Orville and Wilbur Wright
first started to conquer the skies.
The Golden Spike National Historical
Park is going to recognize in Prom-
ontory Summit in Utah, the place
where the world changed, where not
only was history made that day, but
also the Herculean efforts of those who
organized this, as well as the immi-
grant manpower of Irish coming from
the east and Chinese from the west,
who provided the muscle to accomplish
this project.
A national historical park is accom-
plished by an act of Congress, but the
Spike 150 Commission, chaired by Doug
Foxley and Spencer Stokes, has mobi-
lized a literal army of history lovers
who will host a series of events befit-
ting this historic moment.
It has already started with a horse
parade in Brigham City, a hoedown in
Tremonton, and a country church serv-
ice on Sunday. It will also culminate
this Friday when we invite all of you
to come to Utah to see the celebration
of the 150th anniversary of the Golden
Spike, which encouraged the pio-
neering of both the spirit and economy
of America. When that Golden Spike
was driven, America welcomed a new
frontier.
f
HONORING LINNIE ‘‘PAPA’’
DARDEN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Linnie
‘‘Papa’’ Darden, who is being honored
at the Legends, Leaders, and Life Well
Lived Award luncheon on May 9.
Well deserving of this honor, he
should be an inspiration to us all about
how to constantly strive to make the
world a better place to live. Mr. Darden
has dedicated much of his life to young
people, teaching deaf children in Ethi-
opia and counseling teenagers on life
skills and drug education here in the
United States.
At the young age of 80, he earned a
Ph.D. in religious counseling with a
thesis on at-risk youth.
Along with serving youth at home
and abroad, he served in our Nation’s
Armed Forces.
I couldn’t be prouder to have him in
the First Congressional District of
Georgia. I thank Mr. Darden for his
service, both in the military and in our
communities. He continues to truly ex-
emplify a life well lived.
HONORING RICHARD ECKBURG
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Rich-
ard ‘‘Dick’’ Eckburg, who is being hon-
ored at the Legends, Leaders, and Life
Well Lived Award luncheon on May 9.
Well deserving of this honor, he
should be an inspiration to us all about
how to constantly strive to make the
world a better place to live.
A Korean war veteran, Dick worked
at UPS for 32 years, eventually becom-
ing the vice president of public affairs.
Since then, he has dedicated countless
time and resources to numerous chari-
table organizations around the Savan-
nah area, including the Telfair Mu-
seum, the Lucas Theatre, the Bethesda
Academy, and many more.
Dick’s work with each of these orga-
nizations, along with that of his won-
derful wife, Judy, has changed the face
of Savannah and improved the lives of
many in our community.
I couldn’t be prouder to have him in
the First Congressional District of
Georgia. I thank Dick for his service in
the military and especially for his
service to our community. He con-
tinues to truly exemplify a life well
lived.
HONORING DR. LES WILKES
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Dr. Les
Wilkes, who is being honored at the
Legends, Leaders, and Life Well Lived
Award luncheon on May 9.
Well deserving of this honor, he
should be an inspiration to us all about
how to constantly strive to make the
world a better place to live.
Dr. Wilkes practiced orthopedic sur-
gery in Savannah for over 40 years. Be-
fore that, he served in the United
States Navy as an orthopedic surgeon.
After his retirement, he partnered
with Hospice Savannah to provide pho-
tographs for the clients. He continues
his work with our veterans by serving
in Honor Flights, escorting veterans to
Washington, D.C.
Dr. Wilkes is also the unofficial pho-
tographer for Wesley United Methodist
Church in downtown Savannah where
he and his wife, Ge-Juan, and their son,
Lee, and his family have worshipped
for many years.
I couldn’t be prouder to have him in
the First Congressional District of
Georgia. I thank Dr. Wilkes for his
service, both in the military and in our
communities. He continues to truly ex-
emplify a life well lived.
RECOGNIZING SAVANNAH COLLEGE OF ART AND
DESIGN
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the Savan-
nah College of Art and Design on its
40th anniversary.
In 1978, an elementary school teach-
er, Ms. Paula Wallace, wanted to start
a college in her hometown dedicated to
the arts. Beginning with 71 students,
SCAD now has over 55,000.
The school has four campuses, in Sa-
vannah, Atlanta, Hong Kong, and
Lacoste, France. It has countless alum-
ni who have gone on to successful ca-
reers in photography, abstract art,
film, interior design, and so much
more.
In addition to providing college stu-
dents with an exceptional art-centered
education, they have given back to our
community 10 times over, hosting art
festivals, public concerts, and fashion
shows.
Locations important to our city’s
history and culture have been restored
by its students: the Flannery O’Connor
Childhood Home, the Victory Drive
corridor, and the Massie Heritage Cen-
ter.
I thank everyone at SCAD—the fac-
ulty, administrators, and students
alike—for their contributions to our
area. As a native Savannahian, I have
always said that SCAD was the cata-
lyst for the renovation of downtown
Savannah.
I thank Paula Wallace for bringing
SCAD to Savannah and leading its suc-
cess over the last four decades, and I
congratulate it on its 40th anniversary.
f
UNDERSTANDING RISKS OF U.S.
MILITARY INTERVENTION IN
VENEZUELA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. GAETZ) for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:10 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.004 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3454 May 7, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Speaker, after meet-
ing with President Trump yesterday
regarding the ongoing crisis in Ven-
ezuela, I rise to praise the Trump ad-
ministration for its mindful and stra-
tegic response to conditions in that
country.
All options must be on the table, in-
cluding military force.
My constituents would likely be
among the first in that fight. I am in-
credibly proud of them. If asked, they
will successfully execute any mission
that they are called to do.
Policymakers have an obligation not
to send any of America’s sons and
daughters into any ill-advised conflict.
The Trump administration clearly un-
derstands the risks associated with
military intervention in Venezuela at
this time. They include a few things.
First, if the United States military
were to have troops on the ground in
Venezuela today, it is very likely that
the Maduro regime would scapegoat
their own failures.
The people of Venezuela voted their
way into socialism, and now it appears
they have to fight their way out of it.
While this should be a lesson to us all,
military intervention should not be
presented as an opportunity for the
Maduro regime to explain away why
people in Venezuela have no medicine,
have no food, are starving, and at
times see their own countrymen turn-
ing tanks and weapons against them.
Those failures belong to the Maduro
regime. Those failures belong to the so-
cialist dictatorship.
Were we to intervene in an unwise
way, potentially, that would create
confusion about the conditions that led
to these terrible circumstances.
Second, if the United States military
were to intervene at this time, it is my
concern that it would allow the
Maduro regime to externalize their
conflict.
It is no surprise to any in this Cham-
ber or many in the Trump administra-
tion that there remains some latent re-
sentment within pockets of Latin
America regarding U.S. intervention,
regime change, and nation-building.
At a time when we are seeing demo-
cratic successes and governments stood
up that are beginning to provide for
their citizens, it would be deeply un-
wise to stoke any anti-American re-
sentment with ill-advised conflict.
Right now, Maduro functionally
lacks material support from the for-
ward-thinking countries in the Western
Hemisphere, and we would not want to
create any opportunity for there to be
a call to the new Bolivarian alliance.
Ultimately, that is what a lot of
these transnational criminal organiza-
tions want in Venezuela. They want to
erode nation-states and borders. They
want to end nationalism in our hemi-
sphere so that they have a more per-
missive environment for their illicit
activities.
Third, the Trump administration
clearly understands that, if the United
States were deemed to be too involved
in the popular uprising in Venezuela,
Maduro would potentially have the op-
portunity to deny the organic desires
of Venezuelans to fight for their own
freedom.
The reason people are rising up in
Venezuela right now is not a con-
sequence of the United States Govern-
ment. It is a consequence of the fail-
ures of their own government and their
passionate desire for freedom, one that
we should stand with the people of
Venezuela to execute.
Despite these conditions and despite
the challenges, I remain hopeful that
there is a brighter future for Ven-
ezuela. As we meet and gather now,
Juan Guaido is able to go about the
country freely. Despite not having a
military, despite not having staff, he is
able to rally thousands of his fellow
countrymen in public squares and
make the argument for freedom.
Meanwhile, the coward Maduro re-
mains huddled up in a military base,
unable to move around and unsure who
will turn on him next.
If the last quarter century has taught
our country anything about the nature
of freedom, it is that freedom has to be
fought for hardest by those who yearn
to live it. Freedom cannot be the gift
that America gives other countries,
purchased solely with the currency of
the blood of U.S. servicemembers.
People have to fight for freedom and
earn it. They have to die for it. They
have to bury their relatives over it.
Then they have to love it and care for
it so much that they will never let an-
other strongman take it away from
them and so that they will never fall
victim to the passions that led Ven-
ezuela down this dark path to social-
ism, dictatorship, starvation, and des-
peration.
We stand with the people of Ven-
ezuela, and they must stand now to
fight for a better future for their coun-
try.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 26
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
You look upon our world: men and
women being born and being laid to
rest, some getting married and others
getting divorced, the old and the
young, the rich and the poor, the happy
and the sad, so many people aimless,
despairing, hateful, and killing, so
many undernourished, sick, and dying,
so many struggling with life and blind
to any meaning.
Send us Your spirit, that the issues
of our day might be met with compas-
sion by the Members of this House and
all who serve to improve the conditions
of our shared humanity.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I
demand a vote on agreeing to the
Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I object to the vote on the
ground that a quorum is not present
and make the point of order that a
quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNIZING FREDERICK
WILLIAM RUSTEBERG
(Mr. VELA asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, it is an
honor to recognize Frederick William
Rusteberg of Brownsville, Texas.
Mr. Rusteberg served the majority of
his professional career as the original
founding CEO and president of Inter-
national Bank of Commerce in Browns-
ville until his retirement on October
27, 2016.
In the early 1970s, Mr. Rusteberg
served his country as an officer in the
United States Army.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:10 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.006 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3455
May 7, 2019
After receiving the Army commenda-
tion medal and an honorable discharge,
he returned to his hometown of
Brownsville. He helped develop the
area’s future as assistant port director
for the Port of Brownsville.
Mr. Rusteberg began his 40-year
banking career at Bank of the South-
west. Shortly thereafter, he opened the
first International Bank of Commerce
bank facility in Cameron County in
1984.
A champion of education, Mr.
Rusteberg led successful efforts for the
Brownsville Independent School Dis-
trict to secure funding for our schools.
He and his family established the very
first scholarship endowment at the
University of Texas-Brownsville, now
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley.
Mr. Rusteberg has been married to
Frances Hill for 48 years and has two
children, William Rusteberg and Liz
Rusteberg Hainley, and two grand-
children, Jessie Hainley and Will
Hainley. Fred and Frances have been
highly active in the community
throughout the years and are blessed
to call Brownsville home.
Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the op-
portunity to honor Frederick William
Rusteberg. His character and hard
work make him a tremendous role
model for the citizens of Brownsville,
and I am confident his contributions
will continue to guide south Texas in a
positive direction.
I ask my colleagues to join me, his
family, and friends in commending his
life of service.
f
JOBS BOOM BEST IN 50 YEARS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, last Friday’s economic num-
bers continue to show that policies
championed by the President and Re-
publicans are helping the American
people succeed:
The economy added an incredible
263,000 jobs in April;
More than 5.8 million jobs have been
created since the election;
The unemployment rate fell to 3.6
percent in April, the lowest since De-
cember 1969;
The employment rate for women is
the lowest rate since 1953;
The veterans’ unemployment rate
fell to 2.3 percent, the lowest rate on
record;
The employment rate for Americans
with a disability fell to the lowest rate
on record;
Average hourly earnings rose by 3.2
percent over 12 months. Before 2018,
wage gains had not reached 3 percent
since April 2009.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICING
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to address the serious threat
that soaring costs of prescription drugs
pose to the health and well-being of
families.
Americans spend more money on pre-
scription drug prices per person than
any other country in the world. The
problem has grown so much that now
Americans are paying more for out-of-
pocket drugs every year than for hos-
pital care. These inflated prices are
sapping the strength of our economy
and the health of our families.
However, this is a challenge, Mr.
Speaker, we can begin to tackle in this
Congress this year. We can begin to
fight this battle now by targeting abu-
sive barriers to entry for cheaper ge-
neric drugs and taking steps to sim-
plify pricing in our overly complicated
system.
That is why, last week, my col-
leagues and I on the Judiciary Com-
mittee voted to refer four bills for con-
sideration that will give generic drug
manufacturers greater access to our
markets, increase competition, and
save lives in the process.
I call on all my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support this bipar-
tisan measure.
f
NATIONAL SKILLED NURSING
CARE WEEK
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, next week is National
Skilled Nursing Care Week, and hun-
dreds of nursing home administrators
will gather at State College, Pennsyl-
vania, for the 2019 Spring Health Care
Conference.
Hosted by Central Pennsylvania Edu-
cational Resources, the conference will
allow nursing home administrators the
opportunity to exchange ideas and gain
information from knowledgeable
speakers.
This year’s theme for National
Skilled Nursing Care Week is ‘‘Live
Soulfully,’’ which will celebrate skilled
nursing centers and their residents and
staff by showcasing how they achieve
happy minds and healthy souls.
Whether it is planting, cooking, read-
ing, or listening to music, these cen-
ters pay it forward by helping individ-
uals find happiness to improve quality
of life.
Mr. Speaker, before coming to Con-
gress, I worked nearly three decades as
a recreational therapist, a rehab serv-
ices manager, and a licensed nursing
home administrator. I know firsthand
how important quality of life is and
how each and every person at a nursing
home can impact the lives of residents.
National Skilled Nursing Care Week
thanks and celebrates caregivers for
their tireless work to care for others.
They truly make an impact.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, May 6, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
May 6, 2019, at 11:14 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 693.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 9 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 4 o’clock p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
TAIWAN ASSURANCE ACT OF 2019
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2002) to foster security in Taiwan,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2002
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Taiwan As-
surance Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) April 10, 2019, marks the 40th anniver-
sary of the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979
(Public Law 96–8).
(2) Since 1949, the close relationship be-
tween the United States and Taiwan has ben-
efitted both parties and the broader Indo-Pa-
cific region.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.008 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3456 May 7, 2019
(3) The security of Taiwan and its democ-
racy are key elements of continued peace
and stability of the greater Indo-Pacific re-
gion, which is in the political, security, and
economic interests of the United States.
(4) The People’s Republic of China is cur-
rently engaged in a comprehensive military
modernization campaign to enhance the
power-projection capabilities of the People’s
Liberation Army and its ability to conduct
joint operations, which is shifting the mili-
tary balance of power across the Taiwan
Strait.
(5) Taiwan and its diplomatic partners con-
tinue to face sustained pressure and coercion
from the People’s Republic of China, which
seeks to isolate Taiwan from the inter-
national community.
(6) It is the policy of the United States to
reinforce its commitments to Taiwan under
the Taiwan Relations Act in a manner con-
sistent with the ‘‘Six Assurances’’ and in ac-
cordance with the United States ‘‘One
China’’ policy.
(7) In the Taiwan Travel Act, which be-
came law on March 16, 2018, Congress ob-
served that the ‘‘self-imposed restrictions
that the United States maintains on high-
level visits’’ between the United States and
Taiwan have resulted in insufficient high-
level communication.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) Taiwan is a vital part of the United
States Free and Open Indo-Pacific Strategy;
(2) the United States Government—
(A) supports Taiwan’s continued pursuit of
asymmetric capabilities and concepts; and
(B) urges Taiwan to increase its defense
spending in order to fully resource its de-
fense strategy; and
(3) the United States should conduct reg-
ular sales and transfers of defense articles to
Taiwan in order to enhance its self-defense
capabilities, particularly its efforts to de-
velop and integrate asymmetric capabilities,
including undersea warfare and air defense
capabilities, into its military forces.
SEC. 4. TAIWAN’S INCLUSION IN INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the People’s Republic of Chi-
na’s attempts to dictate the terms of Tai-
wan’s participation in international organi-
zations, has, in many cases, resulted in Tai-
wan’s exclusion from such organizations
even when statehood is not a requirement,
and that such exclusion—
(1) is detrimental to global health, civilian
air safety, and efforts to counter
transnational crime;
(2) negatively impacts the safety and secu-
rity of citizens globally; and
(3) negatively impacts the security of Tai-
wan and its democracy.
(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States to advocate for Tai-
wan’s meaningful participation in the United
Nations, the World Health Assembly, the
International Civil Aviation Organization,
the International Criminal Police Organiza-
tion, and other international bodies, as ap-
propriate, and to advocate for Taiwan’s
membership in the Food and Agriculture Or-
ganization, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, and
other international organizations for which
statehood is not a requirement for member-
ship.
SEC. 5. REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE TAI-
WAN GUIDELINES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall conduct a review
of the Department of State’s guidance that
governs relations with Taiwan, including the
periodic memorandum entitled ‘‘Guidelines
on Relations with Taiwan’’ and related docu-
ments, and reissue such guidance to execu-
tive branch departments and agencies.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Department of State’s
guidance regarding relations with Taiwan—
(1) should be crafted with the intent to
deepen and expand United States-Taiwan re-
lations, and be based on the value, merits,
and importance of the United States-Taiwan
relationship;
(2) should be crafted giving due consider-
ation to the fact that Taiwan is governed by
a representative democratic government
that is peacefully constituted through free
and fair elections that reflect the will of the
people of Taiwan, and that Taiwan is a free
and open society that respects universal
human rights and democratic values; and
(3) should ensure that the conduct of rela-
tions with Taiwan reflects the longstanding,
comprehensive, and values-based relation-
ship the United States shares with Taiwan,
and contribute to the peaceful resolution of
cross-Strait issues.
(c) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Foreign Relations
of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port that includes a description of—
(1) the results of the review pursuant to
subsection (a) of the Department of State’s
guidance on relations with Taiwan, including
a copy of the reissued ‘‘Guidelines of Rela-
tions with Taiwan’’ memorandum; and
(2) the implementation of the Taiwan
Travel Act (Public Law 115–135) and any
changes to guidance on relations with Tai-
wan that are the result of such implementa-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 2002, the
Taiwan Assurance Act of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 2002,
the Taiwan Assurance Act of 2019.
Last month, we celebrated the 40th
anniversary of the Taiwan Relations
Act, so it is fitting that we are stand-
ing here today to bring two important
measures to the floor, including this
one, to affirm the unwavering, bipar-
tisan congressional support for Taiwan.
Taiwan serves as a steadfast and sig-
nificant partner to the United States,
not just in the Indo-Pacific, but also
around the world. It makes substantial
contributions to the international
community by tackling global chal-
lenges, from combating terrorism to
promoting public health; and it holds
close the values we cherish the most,
standing as a beacon of democracy in
Asia.
However, over the years, China has
attempted to weaken Taiwan’s stand-
ing in the world. It has restricted Tai-
wan’s access to international organiza-
tions and poached its diplomatic allies,
and it has attempted to shape the way
the United States conducts its rela-
tionship with Taiwan, a dynamic we
have, regretfully, allowed.
We must not—we cannot—stand for
this. We cannot sit idly by and allow
one of our most valued democratic
partners to be sidelined on the world
stage. It is time to revisit the guide-
lines we use in the conduct of our rela-
tionship with Taiwan and ensure that
the United States is doing all it can to
fulfill our commitments to Taiwan.
That is why I am proud to support
and cosponsor the Taiwan Assurance
Act. This measure asks the State De-
partment to take a closer look at self-
imposed guidelines we follow with Tai-
wan and assess them based on merit,
not on what would appease China.
As proud co-chair of the Taiwan Cau-
cus, I strongly support the passage of
H.R. 2002, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of the Taiwan Assur-
ance Act, a bill introduced to deepen
and expand U.S.-Taiwan relations. I
want to thank Chairman ENGEL and all
those on the other side of the aisle and
the gentleman from New Jersey for
agreeing to be the lead Democratic co-
sponsors of this important bill that
deepens our ties with Taiwan.
Of note, the bill urges the State De-
partment to eliminate self-imposed re-
strictions on U.S. diplomatic inter-
actions with Taiwan and to provide
Congress access to those policies for
the first time.
Prior administrations have applied
unnecessary and arbitrary restrictions
on their own interactions with officials
from Taiwan. At times, these restric-
tions expanded, apparently in response
to complaints by Communist China.
As the body that produced the Tai-
wan Relations Act, it is necessary and
appropriate for Congress to have
awareness and a say in how these poli-
cies are made. They go well beyond
what is required by the carefully craft-
ed TRA, which does not even state that
U.S.-Taiwan relations are unofficial.
Since the TRA was enacted in 1979,
Taiwan’s Government has evolved into
a vibrant democracy, while the Chinese
Government has become more and
more authoritarian.
It is improper to restrict relations
with Taiwan to avoid offending the
Chinese Communist Party, and it is
out of step with reality to keep pre-
tending that Taiwan is anything other
than a fully functioning democracy.
Taiwan deserves a more elevated re-
lationship with the United States, and
I urge my colleagues to join me in re-
warding Taiwan’s commitment to de-
mocracy by supporting the Taiwan As-
surance Act.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would just
like to, once again, thank Chairman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.004 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3457
May 7, 2019
ENGEL and the entire Foreign Affairs
Committee for their enthusiastic sup-
port of this measure and their support
for the democracy of Taiwan.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I urge my colleagues to support this
measure. This is an important bill that
demonstrates our historical bipartisan
support for Taiwan, and so, as co-chair
of the Taiwan Caucus, I strongly pro-
mote the immediate passage of H.R.
2002.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Taiwan Assurance Act
and to recognize the 40th Anniversary of the
Taiwan Relations Act. Taiwan has made great
strides over the past forty years becoming a
beacon of democracy and individual freedom.
The Taiwan Assurance Act reaffirms the
United States’ strong commitment to Taiwan,
and takes necessary steps to ensure that the
friendship between the people of the United
States and Taiwan continues to grow. Further-
more, this bill recognizes Taiwan’s contribu-
tions in various areas such as global health
and makes it the policy of the United States to
advocate for Taiwan’s inclusion in the United
Nations and other international organizations
such as the World Health Assembly.
It was an honor to travel to Taiwan last
month with a few of my colleagues to cele-
brate the 40th Anniversary of the Taiwan Re-
lations Act and to witness the opening of the
new facility for the American Institute in Tai-
wan.
While our relationship remains unofficial, en-
acted legislation such as the Taiwan Travel
Act will allow high level officials from both gov-
ernments to travel and meet with their coun-
terparts, allowing both parties to foster and
strengthen the important relationship we
share.
Mr. Speaker, in these rapidly changing
times across the world, it is important and
even more necessary for us to recognize and
appreciate our allies who carry a strong belief
in democracy and human rights. Taiwan is a
prime example of that and I commend them
for the progress they have made over the past
forty years. I look forward to seeing this rela-
tionship continue and strengthen over time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2002.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REAFFIRMING UNITED STATES
COMMITMENT TO TAIWAN AND
TO IMPLEMENTATION OF TAI-
WAN RELATIONS ACT
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 273) reaffirming the
United States commitment to Taiwan
and to the implementation of the Tai-
wan Relations Act.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 273
Whereas the Taiwan Relations Act (TRA)
was signed into law on April 10, 1979, codi-
fying into law the basis for continued com-
mercial, cultural, and other relations be-
tween the people of the United States and
the people of Taiwan, and serving as the
foundation to preserve and promote contin-
ued bilateral bonds;
Whereas the TRA enshrines the United
States commitment to make available to
Taiwan such defense articles and defense
services in such quantity as may be nec-
essary to enable Taiwan to maintain a suffi-
cient self-defense capability;
Whereas pursuant to section 1206 of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107–228; 22 U.S.C. 2321k
note.), Taiwan is to be treated as though it
were designated a major non-NATO ally for
transfers of defense articles or defense serv-
ices;
Whereas in 1982, President Ronald Reagan
further clarified the importance and resil-
ience of the United States-Taiwan relation-
ship with the issuance of the Six Assurances;
Whereas the TRA and the Six Assurances
are cornerstones of United States policy
with respect to Taiwan, as was reaffirmed by
the House of Representatives with the adop-
tion of H. Con. Res. 88 in 2016;
Whereas the TRA and the Six Assurances
have been essential components in helping to
maintain peace, security, and stability in
the Western Pacific, thereby furthering the
political, security, and economic interests of
the United States and Taiwan;
Whereas the United States and Taiwan
have forged ever closer economic and secu-
rity relations over the last four decades
based on their shared commitment to democ-
racy, human rights, the rule of law and free
market principles, and their willingness to
partner in efforts to combat global terrorism
and to address other global challenges, such
as those related to the environment, public
health, energy security, education, women’s
empowerment, digital economy, poverty, and
natural disasters;
Whereas the United States-Taiwan part-
nership has been further strengthened since
the 2015 memorandum of understanding es-
tablishing the Global Cooperation and Train-
ing Framework (GCTF), which has allowed
the two parties to cohost many workshops
on critical topics, including one in December
2018 on humanitarian assistance and disaster
relief to which ten regional governments
sent participants;
Whereas Taiwan has the expertise, willing-
ness, and capability to engage in inter-
national efforts to mitigate global chal-
lenges related to such issues as public
health, aviation safety, crime, and ter-
rorism, but its participation in such efforts
has been constrained by conditions imposed
by the People’s Republic of China (PRC);
Whereas successive Congresses have called
upon the executive branch to develop strate-
gies to obtain meaningful participation for
Taiwan in international organizations, such
as the World Health Organization (WHO),
International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO), and International Criminal Police
Organization (INTERPOL);
Whereas the Congress most recently ex-
pressed support for Taiwan’s participation at
the World Health Organization’s World
Health Assembly as an observer on January
22, 2019, with the adoption of H.R. 353 by the
House of Representatives;
Whereas communication on bilateral secu-
rity, cultural, and commercial interests
would be greatly enhanced with the full im-
plementation of the Taiwan Travel Act (Pub-
lic Law 115–135), which became law on March
16, 2018, and which states that the United
States Government ‘‘should encourage visits
between officials from the United States and
Taiwan at all levels’’;
Whereas the United States and Taiwan
have built a strong economic partnership,
with the United States now Taiwan’s third
largest trading partner and with Taiwan the
11th largest trading partner of the United
States and a key destination for United
States agricultural exports;
Whereas strong United States-Taiwan eco-
nomic relations have been a positive factor
in stimulating economic growth and job cre-
ation for the people of both the United
States and Taiwan; and
Whereas successive Congresses have pub-
licly reaffirmed United States commitments
to Taiwan under the Taiwan Relations Act
and Six Assurances, including most recently
on December 31, 2018, with the enactment
into law of the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409), which stated
among other things that—
(1) it is United States policy ‘‘to support
the close economic, political, and security
relationship between Taiwan and the United
States’’;
(2) ‘‘The President should conduct regular
transfers of defense articles to Taiwan that
are tailored to meet the existing and likely
threats from the People’s Republic of China,
including supporting the efforts of Taiwan to
develop and integrate asymmetric capabili-
ties, as appropriate, including mobile, sur-
vivable, and cost-effective capabilities into
its military forces.’’; and
(3) ‘‘The President should encourage the
travel of high-level United States officials to
Taiwan, in accordance with the Taiwan
Travel Act.’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) reaffirms that the Taiwan Relations
Act, together with the Six Assurances, are
and will remain cornerstones of United
States relations with Taiwan;
(2) encourages United States officials at all
levels to travel to meet with their counter-
parts in Taiwan, and for high-level Taiwan
officials to enter the United States and meet
with United States officials, per the Taiwan
Travel Act;
(3) reiterates that the President should
conduct regular transfers of defense articles
to Taiwan consistent with Taiwan’s national
security requirements in accordance to prior
legislation, including the Asia Reassurance
Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409);
(4) calls on the Secretary of State to ac-
tively engage internationally in support of
Taiwan’s meaningful participation in inter-
national organizations engaged in addressing
transnational threats and challenges such as
those related to health, aviation security,
and crime and terrorism;
(5) recognizes Taiwan’s partnership in com-
bating global terrorism, including as a full
partner in the Global Coalition to Defeat
ISIS, and in addressing other global chal-
lenges through the Global Cooperation and
Training Framework (GCTF) and other such
initiatives;
(6) underscores the importance of the close
people-to-people ties cultivated through ini-
tiatives such as the Fulbright Program,
which has supported thousands of scholar
and grantee exchanges between the United
States and Taiwan over the past 60 years;
and
(7) acknowledges the important work done
by the American Institute in Taiwan and the
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representa-
tive Office in support of United States-Tai-
wan interests.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.013 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3458 May 7, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 273, re-
affirming the United States commit-
ment to Taiwan and to the implemen-
tation of the Taiwan Relations Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in strong support of H. Res. 273,
reaffirming the United States commit-
ment to Taiwan and to the implemen-
tation of the Taiwan Relations Act.
Signed into law four decades ago, the
Taiwan Relations Act marked the first
and most significant act of support for
Taiwan by Congress. It unequivocally
demonstrates our support to Taiwan.
Along with the Six Assurances, this act
remains the bedrock of our deep part-
nership with Taiwan.
With the support of this landmark
piece of legislation and in the 40 years
since, the United States has deepened
security, economic, and people-to-peo-
ple ties with Taiwan. Our two nations
have worked together to maintain
peace, security, and stability in the Pa-
cific through our shared commitment
to democracy, human rights, and the
rule of law.
Unfortunately, China seeks to dimin-
ish Taiwan’s presence on the world
stage. We must fully use the tools at
our disposal to fight back against these
efforts.
It is important that Congress must
do what we can to honor our commit-
ment to Taiwan. That is why I have
long been a proud co-chair of the Tai-
wan Caucus and why I support this
measure.
H. Res. 273 reaffirms our commit-
ment to the people of Taiwan, encour-
ages high-level engagement as called
for in the Taiwan Travel Act, promotes
Taiwan’s meaningful engagement in
international organizations, and calls
to deepen cultural ties.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
resolution reaffirming the United
States commitment to Taiwan and the
implementation of the Taiwan Rela-
tions Act.
I also want to thank my good friend
Chairman ENGEL and Congressman
SIRES for offering this resolution,
which gives us an opportunity to re-
flect on the importance of U.S.-Taiwan
relations at a very critical time.
As the House considers this measure
today, the United States and Taiwan
share in a celebration, the 40th anni-
versary of the Taiwan Relations Act,
which occurred on April 10 of this year.
The Taiwan Relations Act remains one
of Congress’ most distinguished and
lasting contributions to U.S. foreign
policy.
The TRA built an unshakable founda-
tion for U.S.-Taiwan relations, and the
people of Taiwan have repaid this ges-
ture by transforming Taiwan into a
beacon of democracy and individual
liberties. As is often said, Taiwan is a
force for good in the world.
Reaffirming the U.S. commitment to
Taiwan at this moment is also essen-
tial because we are standing together
to face a growing threat. Communist
Party General Secretary Xi Jinping is
using all the tools at his disposal—
military, economic, informational, and
diplomatic—to try to destroy Taiwan’s
democracy.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this resolution to remind
him once again that he will not suc-
ceed on our watch.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. CHABOT), the senior member of the
Foreign Affairs Committee and a
former chairman of the Subcommittee
on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H. Res. 273, which reaffirms
the United States commitment to Tai-
wan and to the implementation of the
Taiwan Relations Act, or TRA.
As a longtime friend of the people of
Taiwan, a founding co-chair of the Con-
gressional Taiwan Caucus, and a co-
sponsor of this resolution, I want to
thank Chairman ENGEL and Ranking
Member MCCAUL for their work to sup-
port our critical bilateral relationship
with Taiwan.
b 1615
This year marks the 40th anniversary
of the Taiwan Relations Act, which to-
gether with President Reagan’s Six As-
surances, serve as the foundation for
the relationship between our two coun-
tries, and I mean countries.
Since the TRA was signed in 1979,
Taiwan has become a vibrant, consoli-
dated democracy, one of our most im-
portant trading partners and a model
in so many areas for the rest of Asia
and the whole world, really.
Going forward, we must continue to
implement the TRA and do better at
fully appreciating the policy commit-
ments it contains. With that in mind, I
urge the President to immediately fi-
nalize an arms sales package with Tai-
wan as well as begin negotiations for a
free trade agreement.
As China’s influence grows, our com-
mitment to Taiwan will be the bell-
wether of our commitment to democ-
racy in Asia. We do not owe China a
vote in how we treat Taiwan. If we are
equivocal in our support for Taiwan in
the face of Chinese pressure, how can
we credibly support democracy and
democratic values when they are
threatened elsewhere?
I also want to voice my support for
H.R. 2002, Ranking Member MCCAUL’s
Taiwan Assurance Act. This legislation
takes important steps to advance our
bilateral relationship, including sup-
port for arms sales and for Taiwan’s
participation in international organi-
zations. It would also require a review
of the State Department’s, I believe,
unreasonable guidelines for Taiwan’s
diplomatic staff here in the U.S.
And I would be remiss if I didn’t men-
tion that I wish the legislation did not
refer to the misguided U.S. One-China
policy, but I understand that it was in-
cluded as part of negotiations with the
Senate.
Finally, the Taiwan Assurance Act
requires a report on implementation of
the Taiwan Travel Act, legislation that
I introduced last Congress to increase
high-level visits between U.S. and Tai-
wanese officials. Since the bill became
law a little over a year ago, we have
seen not enough action, and I believe
that it is past time for full implemen-
tation of this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, as we mark the TRA’s
40th anniversary, H. Res. 273 and H.R.
2002 are critical to strengthening our
enduring relationship with Taiwan as
we look forward to the next 40 years, so
I would urge my colleagues to support
both of them.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further requests for time and would in-
quire through the Speaker if my col-
league has any remaining speakers on
his side.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support this important
resolution, H. Res. 273, reaffirming our
commitments made to Taiwan 40 years
ago and strengthens our ability to ful-
fill them.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 273.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.015 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3459
May 7, 2019
CHAMPIONING AMERICAN BUSI-
NESS THROUGH DIPLOMACY ACT
OF 2019
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1704) to foster commercial rela-
tions with foreign countries and sup-
port United States economic and busi-
ness interests abroad in the conduct of
foreign policy, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1704
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cham-
pioning American Business Through Diplo-
macy Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) According to the 2017 National Security
Strategy of the United States of America,
‘‘Retaining our position as the world’s pre-
eminent economic actor strengthens our
ability to use the tools of economic diplo-
macy for the good of Americans and oth-
ers.’’.
(2) A November 7, 2018, cable from Sec-
retary of State Michael R. Pompeo to all dip-
lomatic and consular posts—‘‘Boosting Com-
mercial Diplomacy Around the World’’—stat-
ed that ‘‘helping American companies is a
foreign policy priority . . . Promoting broad-
based, responsible, and sustainable economic
growth helps to stabilize regions and creates
new and growing markets for U.S. compa-
nies. A transparent and level playing field
for U.S. investment in these countries
counters real and growing challenges such as
China’s Belt and Road initiative.’’.
(3) In the January–February 2019 issue of
The Foreign Service Journal, Ambassador
Barbara Stephenson, the President of the
American Foreign Service Association,
wrote ‘‘Foreign Service support for Amer-
ican business . . . is a major reason why the
U.S. Foreign Service was created.’’.
SEC. 3. ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY WITHIN THE DE-
PARTMENT OF STATE.
Subsection (c) of section 1 of the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
U.S.C. 2651a) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ECONOMIC
AND BUSINESS MATTERS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the numer-
ical limitation specified in paragraph (1),
there is authorized to be established in the
Department of State an Assistant Secretary
of State who shall be responsible to the Sec-
retary of State for matters pertaining to
international economics and business mat-
ters in the conduct of foreign policy.
‘‘(B) MATTERS CONTEMPLATED.—The mat-
ters referred to in subparagraph (A) include
the following:
‘‘(i) International trade and investment
policy.
‘‘(ii) International finance, economic de-
velopment, and debt policy.
‘‘(iii) Economic sanctions and combating
terrorist financing.
‘‘(iv) International transportation policy.
‘‘(v) Support for United States businesses.
‘‘(vi) Economic policy analysis and private
sector outreach.
‘‘(vii) International data privacy and inno-
vation policies.
‘‘(viii) Such other related duties as the
Secretary may from time to time des-
ignate.’’.
SEC. 4. CHIEF OF MISSION RESPONSIBILITIES.
Section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of
1980 (22 U.S.C. 3927) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) PROMOTION OF UNITED STATES ECO-
NOMIC INTERESTS.—Each chief of mission to a
foreign country shall have as a principal
duty the promotion of United States eco-
nomic and commercial interests in such
country.’’.
SEC. 5. INCREASED TRAINING IN ECONOMIC AND
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMACY.
Section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of
1980 (22 U.S.C. 4028) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL DIPLO-
MACY.—The Secretary of State, with the as-
sistance of other relevant officials and the
private sector, shall establish as part of the
standard training provided for economic and
commercial officers of the Foreign Service,
chiefs of mission, and deputy chiefs of mis-
sion, training on matters related to eco-
nomic and commercial diplomacy, with par-
ticular attention to market access and other
elements of an enabling framework for
United States businesses, commercial advo-
cacy, and United States foreign economic
policy, in addition to awareness about the
support of the United States Government
available to United States businesses, in-
cluding support provided by the Department
of Agriculture, the Department of Com-
merce, the Export-Import Bank of the
United States, the Millennium Challenge
Corporation, the Trade and Development
Agency, the Department of the Treasury, the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment, and the United States Inter-
national Development Finance Corpora-
tion.’’.
SEC. 6. REPORT FROM EACH MISSION ON MAT-
TERS OF COMMERCIAL RELATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and annually thereafter, the chief of mission
at each bilateral diplomatic mission of the
United States and the Director of the Amer-
ican Institute in Taiwan shall submit to the
Secretary of State the following:
(1) Data and other information regarding
actions taken by each such mission or Insti-
tute during the previous year to foster com-
mercial relations and safeguard United
States economic and business interests in
the country or region in which each such
chief of mission and the Director serves.
(2) Each such mission’s and Institute’s an-
ticipated economic and commercial prior-
ities for the coming year.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary of
State, after receiving the information re-
quired under subsection (a), shall submit to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report,
disaggregated by country or region, on ac-
tivities and initiatives, including with ap-
propriate examples, to create an enabling en-
vironment and otherwise promote United
States economic and business interests in
each such country or region, as well as infor-
mation about significant foreign competi-
tion to United States businesses in the rel-
evant country or region, including state-di-
rected investments by foreign governments
and United States strategic competitors in
such country or region.
SEC. 7. REPORT ON UNIFIED INVESTMENT CLI-
MATE STATEMENT AND COUNTRY
COMMERCIAL GUIDE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly
produce and make publicly available on a
United States Government internet website
an annual country- and region-specific re-
port regarding commercial relations with
foreign countries and regions and safe-
guarding United States economic and busi-
ness interests abroad, including with regard
to United States exports and investments,
including by small- and medium-size enter-
prises.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—Each report
required under subsection (a) shall include
the following with respect to each country or
region covered by each such report:
(1) Information about doing business in
each country or region.
(2) Background information about each
country’s or region’s political environment.
(3) Information about selling United States
products and services in each country or re-
gion.
(4) Leading sectors for United States ex-
ports and investment in each country or re-
gion.
(5) Information about trade regulations,
customs, and standards in each country or
region, such as—
(A) information on import tariffs; and
(B) documentation about which United
States businesses should be aware when ex-
porting, including any prohibited items or
temporary entry procedures.
(6) Investment climate statements describ-
ing each country’s or region’s openness to
foreign investments, such as information re-
lating to each country’s or region’s—
(A) investment policies;
(B) market barriers;
(C) business risks;
(D) legal and regulatory system, including
dispute resolution;
(E) level of public and private sector cor-
ruption;
(F) level of political violence and insta-
bility;
(G) adherence to internationally recog-
nized core labor standards; and
(H) protection of property rights.
(7) Information about trade and project fi-
nancing in each country or region, such as
each country’s or region’s—
(A) banking and financial system, and how
United States businesses typically get paid;
(B) foreign exchange controls; and
(C) important sources of funding for
project financing.
(8) Relevant business travel information
and business customs in each country or re-
gion.
(9) Information about services and per-
sonnel of the diplomatic mission of the
United States available to United States
businesses to support their activities in each
country or region.
(10) Any significant trade or commercial
agreement that exists between the United
States and each country or region.
(11) A point of contact at the diplomatic or
consular mission of the United States in
each country or region for United States
businesses.
SEC. 8. IMPROVING AWARENESS OF UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT TOOLS AND
SERVICES TO SUPPORT UNITED
STATES BUSINESSES OVERSEAS.
The Secretary of State and the Secretary
of Commerce shall take actions to improve
United States businesses’ awareness of
United States Government tools and services
to assist such businesses overseas, especially
small and medium-sized enterprises, includ-
ing by coordinating with State trade agen-
cies, Export Assistance Centers, and Small
Businesses Development Centers.
SEC. 9. NEGOTIATIONS TO ESTABLISH INTER-
NATIONAL QUALITY INFRASTRUC-
TURE INVESTMENT STANDARDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President, acting
through the Secretary of State, and in co-
ordination with other relevant Federal agen-
cy heads, shall initiate and pursue negotia-
tions with countries to establish inter-
national standards for government-supported
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.017 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3460 May 7, 2019
quality infrastructure investment overseas,
including with respect to the following:
(1) Respect for the sovereignty of countries
in which infrastructure investments are
made.
(2) Anti-corruption.
(3) Fiscal and debt sustainability.
(4) Environmental, social and governance
safeguards.
(5) Local labor.
(6) Transparency.
(b) REPORT ON PROGRESS OF NEGOTIA-
TIONS.—Not later than one year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the President
shall provide a briefing to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate on the progress of any
negotiations described in subsection (a).
SEC. 10. REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF
THE UNITED STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than two years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate a report on United States economic
and commercial diplomacy.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
required under subsection (a) shall include
an assessment of the following:
(1) What is known about the effectiveness
of United States economic and commercial
diplomacy in influencing foreign govern-
ments and supporting United States busi-
nesses abroad.
(2) Coordination between the Department
of State and the Department of Commerce
with respect to United States economic and
commercial diplomacy.
(3) The effectiveness of training provided
pursuant to subsection (d) of section 708 of
the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (as added by
section 4 of this Act) on matters relating to
economic and commercial diplomacy.
(4) The status and effectiveness of actions
taken by the Secretary of State under sec-
tion 7 of this Act regarding commercial rela-
tions with foreign countries and regions and
safeguarding United States economic and
business interests abroad.
(5) Recommendations to improve United
States economic and commercial diplomacy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 1704, the
Championing American Business
Through Diplomacy Act of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
first Mr. MCCAUL for his hard work on
this legislation.
I am proud to be supporting this leg-
islation, this bipartisan measure,
which makes better use of State De-
partment resources to increase exports
of American-made goods and Amer-
ican-provided services and, in turn, cre-
ates more jobs for American workers.
This important bill supports the
277,000 small and medium-sized busi-
nesses that are trying to sell U.S.-ori-
gin goods and services across the globe.
They need help understanding the
overseas market, locating customers
for U.S.-origin products, dealing with
local imports and customs rules, and
arranging financing for their export
sales. All these efforts support U.S.
jobs. Economic officers in our embas-
sies and at the State Department in
Washington can help exporters deal
with these challenges.
This piece of legislation improves the
State Department’s training program
for economic officers, affirms a long-
standing directive to U.S. Ambassadors
to include commercial and economic
issues in their portfolios, and strength-
ens coordination between the State De-
partment and the Commerce Depart-
ment by consolidating data on overseas
markets.
These efforts fortify the key role of
our State Department, provides crit-
ical confirmation to U.S. exporters,
and makes more efficient use of public
funds.
H.R. 1704 is a critical bill that will
not only spur exports and job growth
but will ultimately improve the lives
of the American people.
Our sponsors and I would also like to
clarify the requirements under section
9 of H.R. 1704 to ‘‘initiate and pursue
negotiations with countries to estab-
lish international standards for govern-
ment-supported quality infrastructure
investment overseas’’ are intended to
be fulfilled within the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Develop-
ment.
This bill does not direct or authorize
the Secretary of State to initiate or
pursue negotiations in the World Trade
Organization or amend any multilat-
eral or plurilateral WTO agreements.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of my Championing American Business
Through Diplomacy Act, which I was
pleased to introduce with the support
of my good friend, Chairman ENGEL.
Promoting American business abroad
means promoting American leadership,
prosperity, and our values. It has al-
ways been, and should remain, a key
component of global diplomacy.
The very first edition of the Foreign
Service Journal, then called American
Consular Bulletin, published in March
of 1919, included a letter from the edi-
tor that stated: ‘‘The Consular Service
was organized by our Government for
the purpose of furthering the interests
of American businesses abroad.’’
This legislation makes the promotion
of U.S. economic interests a principal
duty of our missions abroad and re-
quires economic and commercial train-
ing for our diplomats.
It also directs our foreign missions to
promote trade agreements and estab-
lish points of contact who can assist
American businesses interested in en-
tering those foreign markets.
Promotion of American businesses
abroad has never been more important.
As transitioning economies work to ex-
pand their wealth and capacity, they
look to America to bring expertise, fi-
nancing, and ingenuity.
If America does not step up its eco-
nomic engagement in the world, this
vacuum will be filled by others, with a
potentially devastating impact on
American national security.
While I speak, China is aggressively
filling that void. However, its approach
does not respect the rights of workers,
the environment, or even the sov-
ereignty of other nations.
China’s Belt and Road Initiative is
ensnaring developing nations into Chi-
nese debt traps from which they may
never escape. This effort is also leading
to a new Chinese adventurism, com-
plete with military outposts and ex-
panded leverage in various countries.
Ground zero for this competition in
the developing world is Africa. I have
spent much time with African Govern-
ments and business leaders. All have
told me that America is just not there
to compete. I applaud the administra-
tion for its new Prosper Africa efforts
and know that this legislation is key
to its success.
I can think of no better antidote to
combat this predatory influence than
unleashing the vitality of American
values through our private sector. I
naturally think of the world-class tech
and energy companies in my own dis-
trict and home State of Texas.
Creating more international opportu-
nities for American businesses will
help push back on growing Chinese in-
fluence across the globe.
It is time for America to fully wake
up and get on the field, or we may ask
ourselves later why we did not do more
to contain the Chinese threat.
For these reasons, the Championing
American Business Through Diplomacy
Act is a critical initiative that de-
serves our unanimous support.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to
just, again, thank Chairman ENGEL for
his support of this bipartisan bill,
which was adopted unanimously at our
committee markup last month.
American businesses represent inge-
nuity, industry, and opportunity. Un-
like our strategic competitors, they do
not go overseas pushing large, govern-
ment-subsidized construction projects
that involve massive debt or giving up
control of strategic infrastructure.
They seek only access to markets
and a fair playing field, which allows
the kind of win-win partnerships that
are the genius of the free enterprise
system.
In this era of strategic competition,
supporting their access to these econo-
mies abroad should be a priority of
American diplomacy. The stability
that we help provide with our enter-
prise will help bring us and the world
security as well. That is the aim of this
bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.005 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3461
May 7, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support this important
measure, H.R. 1704, to fully and effi-
ciently use the resources we already
have to increase exports and create
jobs and, in turn, improve the lives of
the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1704.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 29 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. SCHNEIDER) at 6 o’clock
and 30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and:
Agree to H. Res. 273 and
Pass H.R. 1704; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
REAFFIRMING UNITED STATES
COMMITMENT TO TAIWAN AND
TO IMPLEMENTATION OF TAI-
WAN RELATIONS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 273) reaffirming
the United States commitment to Tai-
wan and to the implementation of the
Taiwan Relations Act, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 0,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 185]
YEAS—414
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Babin
Butterfield
Cartwright
Costa
Fletcher
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Jackson Lee
Lee (CA)
Meng
Omar
Rooney (FL)
Swalwell (CA)
Wenstrup
Yarmuth
b 1906
Mr. SMUCKER changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CHAMPIONING AMERICAN BUSI-
NESS THROUGH DIPLOMACY ACT
OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1704) to foster commercial re-
lations with foreign countries and sup-
port United States economic and busi-
ness interests abroad in the conduct of
foreign policy, and for other purposes,
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.019 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3462 May 7, 2019
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 400, nays 16,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 186]
YEAS—400
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—16
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Burchett
Comer
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Jordan
King (IA)
Massie
Rice (SC)
Roy
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Babin
Butterfield
Cartwright
Costa
Fletcher
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Jackson Lee
Lee (CA)
Omar
Rooney (FL)
Swalwell (CA)
Wenstrup
Yarmuth
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1912
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H. RES. 346
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent to remove
myself as a cosponsor of H. Res. 346.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, if
this unanimous consent cannot be en-
tertained, I urge the Speaker and the
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the born-alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 986, PROTECTING AMERI-
CANS WITH PREEXISTING CONDI-
TIONS ACT OF 2019, AND PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 2157, SUPPLEMENTAL AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Ms. SHALALA, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–51) on the resolution (H.
Res. 357) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 986) to provide that cer-
tain guidance related to waivers for
State innovation under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act
shall have no force or effect, and pro-
viding for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 2157) making supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
STEM OPPORTUNITIES ACT OF 2019
(Ms. JOHNSON of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
today I am introducing the STEM Op-
portunities Act of 2019 with the rank-
ing member of the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, Mr.
FRANK LUCAS.
The goal of our legislation is to de-
velop and implement evidence-based
policies to promote the progress of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.023 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3463
May 7, 2019
women and minorities and other
groups underrepresented in STEM
studies and research careers.
The result is a bipartisan bill that at-
tempts to systematically address the
full suite of issues facing both female
and minority STEM researchers, from
work/life balance policies, to campus
climate, to better data collection, to
recruitment and retention practices.
Our economic future relies on what
we do now to nurture the STEM talent
that will be necessary to meet the de-
mands of an increasingly technological
and knowledge-based economy.
I want to thank Ranking Member
LUCAS for joining me in introducing
this bill, and I urge the rest of my col-
leagues to please join us. I include my
full remarks on this legislation for the
RECORD.
Mr. Speaker, today I am introducing the
STEM Opportunities Act of 2019. A very simi-
lar bill passed the House as part of the Amer-
ica Competes Act of 2010, but unfortunately
did not make it into the enacted law. As a re-
sult, every Congress since then, I have
worked hard to keep the legislation updated
and to convince my colleagues of the urgency
of the challenges this bill addresses. Today I
am reintroducing this bill with Ranking Mem-
ber of the Science Committee, FRANK LUCAS.
The goal of our legislation is to develop and
implement evidence-based policies to promote
the progress of women, minorities, and other
groups underrepresented in science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM)
studies and research careers.
The need for full engagement in STEM by
women and underrepresented groups goes
beyond enabling individuals to fulfill their
dreams of becoming a scientist. Our economic
future relies on what we do now to nurture the
STEM talent that will be necessary to meet
the demands of an increasingly technological
and knowledge-based economy. The Bureau
of Labor Statistics reports that STEM employ-
ment is the fastest growing sector, with com-
puter science and engineering jobs among the
fastest growing STEM occupations.
If things continue as they are now, however,
I fear we will be ill equipped to fill these jobs.
We are nineteen years into the 21st century
and the demographics of the STEM workforce
do not reflect the diversity of the nation. In
2017, women earned only 20 percent of bach-
elor’s degrees in engineering and 19 percent
in computer science. Black and Hispanic stu-
dents are similarly underrepresented in these
fields at the undergraduate level, and the
problem is even more pronounced in STEM
faculty. Women hold only 26 percent of all
tenured and tenure-track positions, while Black
and Hispanic faculty combined hold a dismal
6.8 percent of these positions. We need to le-
verage all of our human capital if we are to
achieve the necessary capacity to innovate
and to discover.
The STEM Opportunities Act is focused on
identifying and lowering barriers for those who
have already chosen a STEM path. First, so
that we better understand the nature and
scope of the challenges, the STEM Opportuni-
ties Act requires more comprehensive demo-
graphic data collection on the recipients of
federal research awards and on STEM faculty
at U.S. universities. These data would be
available to researchers to study the participa-
tion and trajectories of women and underrep-
resented minorities in STEM so that policy
makers can design more effective policies and
practices to reduce barriers.
Next, this bill requires the development of
consistent federal policies, such as no-cost
award extensions, for recipients of federal re-
search awards who have caregiving respon-
sibilities, including care for a newborn or newly
adopted child and care for a sick family mem-
ber. The bill also requires consistent federal
guidance to grant reviewers and program offi-
cers on best practices to minimize the effects
of implicit bias in the review of federal re-
search grants. It requires OSTP to develop
guidance for universities and Federal labora-
tories to aid them in identifying any cultural
and institutional barriers limiting the recruit-
ment, retention, and achievement of women,
minorities, rural students, and other underrep-
resented groups in academic and government
STEM research careers and in developing and
implementing current best practices for reduc-
ing such barriers. Finally, the legislation au-
thorizes NSF to award grants to universities to
implement or expand research-based prac-
tices targeted specifically at increasing the re-
cruitment and retention of minority students
and faculty.
Mr. Speaker, in developing this legislation,
we solicited extensive input from governmental
and non-governmental stakeholders to ensure
that the guidance and requirements reflect to-
day’s needs and opportunities without unduly
burdening our research universities. The result
is a bipartisan bill that attempts to systemati-
cally address the full suite of issues facing
both female and minority STEM researchers,
from work-life balance policies, to campus cli-
mate, to better data collection, to recruitment
and retention practices. This bill proposes con-
crete and evidence-based solutions to the in-
disputable reality that our nation continues to
fall well short of engaging our entire talent
pool in STEM careers. That disparity in our
STEM workforce will continue to have real and
increasing consequences for our economic
and national security if we do not begin to im-
plement scalable solutions soon.
I want to thank Ranking Member LUCAS for
joining me in introducing this bill and for con-
tributing his good ideas to make the bill even
better. I urge the rest of our colleagues to join
us and to help us move this legislation forward
into law.
f
RECOGNIZING THE COLLIN COL-
LEGE STUDENT GOVERNMENT
ASSOCIATION
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Collin College
Student Government Association for
winning the 2019 Event of the Year
award at the Texas Junior College Stu-
dent Government Association conven-
tion.
The event which earned the organiza-
tion this prestigious recognition,
‘‘Love Does Not Hurt: An Oath Against
Domestic Violence,’’ provided re-
sources for victims of domestic vio-
lence and featured speakers who in-
spired all in attendance.
I was honored to attend the event
and witness firsthand the incredible
difference these student leaders are
making, both on and off campus.
I ask my colleagues in the House of
Representatives to join me today in
thanking the Student Government As-
sociation of Collin College for their
dedication and commitment to our
community.
f
NATIONAL FOSTER CARE MONTH
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, as co-
chair of the bipartisan Congressional
Caucus on Foster Youth, I rise to rec-
ognize May as National Foster Care
Month.
Mr. Speaker, it is time to bring front
and center the more than 400,000 youth
in our foster care system across the
country. These young people are coura-
geous, and they face and overcome
many challenges.
Let’s raise up their voices because
they deserve to be heard, and they de-
serve a seat at the policymaking table.
May is also a time to recognize the
foster care professionals, advocates,
and families who devote themselves to
supporting foster youth every day.
These individuals deserve our utmost
respect and our gratitude.
I am proud to cosponsor Representa-
tive KAREN BASS’ resolution recog-
nizing Foster Care Month.
To the foster youth and those who
support them in Rhode Island and
across the country, you matter, and I
am here to be your advocate in Con-
gress. I urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to join me.
f
SPIRIT OF SAVANNAH AIRCRAFT
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to recognize the partnership
between the city of Savannah and the
165th Airlift Wing, symbolized by one
of their aircrafts recently being named
the ‘‘Spirit of Savannah.’’
Commemorating the C–130 airplane
with its new name on Tuesday, April 9,
the ceremony was a special occasion. It
is now the only aircraft at the 165th
that bears a unique designation and
seal. I can’t thank the members of the
165th Airlift Wing enough for their
service.
They have flown to Puerto Rico and
the U.S. Virgin Islands to assist with
hurricane recovery efforts. Just a few
weeks later, they flew to Iraq and
Syria to support missions against ISIS.
The work they do, based out of the
First Congressional District of Geor-
gia, helps keep our Nation and the en-
tire world safe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.026 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3464 May 7, 2019
RECOGNIZING FIRST RESPONDERS
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to offer appreciation to the in-
credible first responders in my congres-
sional district.
Twice in as many weeks, our fire-
fighters, police, and paramedics have
been called to respond to serious emer-
gencies in Lake County.
On Thursday, April 25, a massive spill
of anhydrous ammonia outside of
Beach Park sent 37 individuals to the
hospital, including 11 firefighters who
sustained injuries from the toxic fumes
while containing the site.
In particular, the quick action of two
Lake County sheriff deputies—Ser-
geant Kyle Brown and Deputy Marcus
Bernardy—and four Beach Park fire-
fighters—Lieutenant Thomas Stahl
and firefighter paramedics Pablo Rami-
rez, Matthew Baran, and Ben New-
man—helped save the lives of five indi-
viduals trapped at the site and strug-
gling to breathe.
Just days later, on Friday, May 3, a
catastrophic explosion erupted at a sil-
icone plant in Waukegan, tragically
claiming three lives. A search con-
tinues for one missing individual. I
offer my condolences to the loved ones
of Jeff Cummings, Byron Biehn, and
Allen Stevens.
While we are still gathering details,
it is clear the prompt response of emer-
gency professionals helped save others
and extinguish the fires. In both situa-
tions, local responders rushed selflessly
into danger to save others.
These events exemplify the incred-
ible professionalism and bravery of our
first responders who put their lives on
the line day in and day out to protect
our communities. We are all incredibly
grateful for their service.
f
RECOGNIZING WEIGEL’S FARM
STORES
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I sa-
lute you for your salute to the Ten-
nessee Big Orange with your tie selec-
tion.
I also rise today to recognize Weigel’s
Farm Stores, an east Tennessee-based
convenience store chain, for its dedica-
tion to selling Tennessee products. Re-
cently, Weigel’s announced that it
would sell milk only produced, proc-
essed, and bottled within the State.
In 1931, the Weigel family began oper-
ating a dairy. Over decades, the family
business expanded from farming to
owning and operating 67 stores in the
region. I remember the square jugs of
Weigel’s milk that became iconic in
the Knoxville area.
Although they no longer produce
their own milk, their commitment to
Tennessee dairy products has remained
constant. Independently owned dairies
have long been an important part of
east Tennessee’s economy, but re-
cently, these operations have struggled
to compete with the larger farms.
I am glad that Bill Weigel, a good
friend of my family’s and the current
owner of the business, and his family
are investing in our local products and
family farms, and I hope their decision
will inspire other milk processors in
the area to do the same.
f
b 1930
HONORING DR. JOSEPH M.
JULIANO FOR 30 YEARS OF
SERVICE
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dr. Joseph M. Juliano
upon his retirement from the City of
Orange Fire Department after 30 years
of service.
Dr. Juliano’s commitment to the
people of Orange, New Jersey, was in-
spired by his mother, Patricia, who was
the first woman elected to the Orange
City Council.
Dr. Juliano joined the Fire Depart-
ment in 1988 and rose through the
ranks during his 30-year career. He re-
tired with the rank of fire captain.
In addition to being a firefighter, Dr.
Juliano has served on the Orange Hous-
ing Authority for the past two decades,
with the motto of ‘‘getting Orange
back on track.’’
Dr. Juliano is a community leader
and a role model from Orange, New
Jersey, and I ask that my colleagues
join me in honoring his service to the
people of my district.
f
LET’S VOTE ON USMCA
(Mr. STEIL asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, we must set
a vote on USMCA.
Wisconsin farmers are struggling.
Low milk prices and limited access to
international markets are hurting our
farmers.
NAFTA was implemented over 25
years ago. Farming, technology, and
markets have changed. It is time for a
modern trade deal. It is time to protect
workers and farmers.
I recently met with Wisconsin’s agri-
cultural industry in Burlington, Wis-
consin, and there was one takeaway
from our meeting: The USMCA will
help Wisconsin’s farmers. Our farmers
will see increased access to markets.
Our products will be able to compete
on the global stage. Our workers will
have the opportunity to succeed.
Mr. Speaker, let’s vote on USMCA.
Wisconsin farmers need our help.
REFORM OUR BROKEN
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, today we mark 1 year since
former White House Chief of Staff John
Kelly led the Trump administration in
implementing the cruel policy of sepa-
rating families at the border and crim-
inalizing refugees and asylum seekers.
After John Kelly left the administra-
tion, he joined the board of Caliburn
days before HHS awarded Caliburn a
$341 million no-bid contract to keep de-
taining migrant children in Home-
stead, Florida. In doing so, this admin-
istration is compounding cruelty with
corruption.
While the zero-tolerance family sepa-
ration policy may have ended, it has
caused chaos and irreparable harm to
our community. We can and we must
do better.
We have to reform our broken immi-
gration system and recognize that
seeking asylum is legal. We must re-
unify families, and treat migrants
searching for a better life in our coun-
try with the dignity that they deserve.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE NOT
STUPID
(Mr. WRIGHT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, so now
that the Trump economy is soaring and
setting job growth records following
the one-two punch of regulatory reform
and tax cuts, some of my Democrat
colleagues want to give Barack Obama
the credit.
Well, this is laughable. This was the
President who refused to accept re-
sponsibility for anything that went
wrong for 8 years, instead blaming it
on President George W. Bush. Remem-
ber?
Not anemic job growth, government
overreach, doubling the national debt,
Benghazi, and incompetent foreign pol-
icy. Now they want to take credit for
the great things happening in this
country 28 months into the Trump
Presidency.
Sorry, you don’t get to do that.
This is an outrage. It is wrong; it is
demonstrably false; and it won’t work.
The American people are not stupid.
f
LOWER PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PRICES
(Mr. ALLRED asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, I received
a letter recently from Paul Rozinsky of
Richardson, Texas. Paul is 81 and uses
Medicare Advantage. He has type 2 dia-
betes.
In his letter, he says that there are
two identical versions of insulin; one is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.027 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3465
May 7, 2019
$140 and the other is $24.88, made on a
special contract for Walmart. Paul
can’t get access to the cheaper drug be-
cause it isn’t on the insurer’s drug list.
He wrote to his insurer about an ex-
ception to his tiered pricing so that he
could qualify for the cheaper version.
They rejected it with a note, saying:
‘‘We apologize for the inconvenience.’’
That is unacceptable and far too
common. In fact, one in four patients
with diabetes are rationing their insu-
lin because of higher costs.
We must do better for Paul and mil-
lions like him who need access to
cheaper medicines. This Congress must
act and sign into legislation law that
lowers costs and simplifies the process
so it is easy to use.
Access to healthcare shouldn’t be a
partisan issue. I call on my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to come to-
gether and get something done this
year to address the cost of prescription
drugs.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF BEN
REIFEL
(Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, in the 1960s, South Dakota’s
Ben Reifel became the first Lakota In-
dian to represent our country in Con-
gress. He grew up dirt poor in a log
cabin. He dropped out after the eighth
grade, later going on to graduate from
South Dakota State and from Harvard.
Throughout his career, Ben Reifel, at
the Bureau of Indian Affairs and for a
decade here in Congress, fought to ad-
vance economic opportunity for Amer-
ican Indians. He celebrated hard work,
education, and self-determination. He
was respected in Indian Country, and
he was respected in this Chamber.
Last week, I filed a bill to put Ben
Reifel’s name on the Rosebud Post Of-
fice. I am hopeful that young Indian
boys and girls will look upon that
name and realize that great Americans
have come and will come again from
that sacred place.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND
SERVICE OF THE HONORABLE
ELLEN TAUSCHER
(Mr. GARAMENDI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, on
April 30, the United States lost an in-
credible leader, a Member of Congress,
one of the first women to serve on the
New York Stock Exchange, and a good
friend to many of us from California,
Ellen Tauscher.
She served here for more than a dec-
ade, became one of the ranking mem-
bers and chairwoman of the Armed
Services subcommittees, and led this
Nation in an effort towards non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons.
She left Congress to take on the task
of Under Secretary at the Department
of State for that purpose and carried
out that extraordinarily important
task as a member of the Obama admin-
istration as Under Secretary of State.
We will miss her, and I will particu-
larly miss her. When she left Congress
to join the State Department, she left
an open seat. I had the pleasure and
privilege of following in her footsteps
and becoming a Member of Congress.
We mourn her, we miss her, and we
call to an American people Ellen Tau-
scher as an example of what an Amer-
ican can and should be.
f
TIGER WOODS AWARDED PRESI-
DENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, yesterday,
I had the great privilege of joining
President Trump and many others at
the White House Rose Garden as Tiger
Woods was awarded the Presidential
Medal of Freedom.
I want to take this opportunity to
congratulate Tiger, not only for win-
ning our Nation’s highest civilian
honor, but also for his standout victory
at the 2019 Masters Tournament in my
hometown of Augusta, Georgia.
In 1997, Woods became the youngest
man and first African Asian American
to win the Masters at the young age of
21. After being tested by possible ca-
reer-ending injuries and adversity, Ti-
ger’s comeback to win his 81st PGA
tour event, 15th major championship,
and fifth green jacket 22 years later is
nothing short of remarkable.
Now Tiger adds the Presidential
Medal of Freedom to his already stellar
resume, becoming only the fourth golf-
er to do so, joining the likes of Arnold
Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, and Charlie
Sifford.
Congratulations to Tiger and his
family for receiving such a well-de-
served distinction. As the President
said, Tiger, you are a ‘‘true legend.’’
f
NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS
WEEK
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
bring attention to National Small
Business Week. Celebrated for over 50
years, we take this week to recognize
the hard work, dedication, and sac-
rifices of America’s entrepreneurs and
small business owners and the impor-
tant role that they play in our Nation.
Today, there are over 30 million
small businesses in America, account-
ing for nearly 60 million employees, or
just about half our workforce. They are
the keystone of our national economy.
As a former small business owner
myself, I know what it takes to make
payroll, attract customers, train and
manage employees, and, at times,
struggle just to keep the lights on. I
can attest, it is not easy.
Today, thank God, small businesses
in America are experiencing economic
prosperity like never before, yet chal-
lenges remain. As policymakers, we
must foster an environment in which
small businesses can thrive, with lim-
ited regulations and tax policy that re-
wards hard work and incentivizes
growth.
We are a nation of small businesses,
and small businesses deserve our na-
tional support.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF COM-
MAND MASTER CHIEF RUSSELL
MASON
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize a man who has hon-
orably served our Nation with integ-
rity, distinction, and humility. After
more than 30 years of service to our
great Nation, Command Master Chief
Russell Mason, whom I am honored to
call both a constituent and a friend, is
retiring from the United States Navy.
Having enlisted in the Navy in 1984,
Master Chief Mason has been stationed
everywhere from Pearl Harbor to
Washington, D.C., and his tours have
brought him all around the world. He
has served on multiple ships, including
as chief of the boat, and has completed
several tours as command master chief.
In 2017, Master Chief Mason assumed
duties as the command master chief for
the U.S. Naval Forces Central Com-
mand 5th Fleet.
As a man of strong faith, he has
earned the respect and admiration of
many and has forever left a legacy of
servant leadership and devotion.
Master Chief, God bless you. Our Na-
tion is forever indebted to you and
your wife, Charlotte. And Russ, thank
you for your years of dedication and
service to our country, the United
States. You have completed your mis-
sion admirably, and I have no doubt
that you will soon be enjoying retire-
ment with us back in west Michigan.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
CATHY GOODMAN
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, the young
lady behind me is Cathy Goodman.
Cathy is the first school nurse at Set-
tlers Way Elementary, and she is still
that nurse 25 years later.
Why stay for 25 years? To quote
Cathy: ‘‘My ministry began when SWE
opened its doors and I stepped through
them. I knew that I’d come home.’’
Cathy’s ministry involved my daugh-
ter, Kate. That 10-year-old little girl
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.029 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3466 May 7, 2019
left the only life she ever knew when
we moved back home in August of 2007.
Every day during Kate’s first month of
school, we got a call. She had an upset
stomach and was sent to see the school
nurse, Cathy.
Cathy turned on her ministry and be-
came Kate’s best friend—problem
solved.
Thank you, Cathy Goodman, for your
unending love and faith. May God al-
ways bless you like you always blessed
us.
f
b 1945
KEEPING SOCIETAL PROMISES
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. VAN
DREW). Under the Speaker’s announced
policy of January 3, 2019, the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT)
is recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the minority leader.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, one
of the things we are going to do to-
night is touch on some of the numbers
that have substantially come out since
last Thursday and Friday, and then
even more numbers that came out yes-
terday and today. This is sort of the
continuation of the theme that we
have been doing since the very begin-
ning of the year, a theme of what do we
as a society have to do to keep our
promises.
The number of times—and I don’t
want to be too snarky—that we will
have Members come behind these
microphones or in our committees and
want to do policy by anecdote—because
telling stories is great. They make peo-
ple happy. It is easy to understand. But
it is not math. It is not public policy.
We have to stop trying to make pub-
lic policy by feelings, by impressions,
by stories, and start doing it by the
numbers because the numbers ulti-
mately make our lives better when we
get it right.
The greatest fragility in our society
right now, if you look, is the unfunded
liabilities of Social Security and Medi-
care. We have a moral obligation to
keep our promises, but the only way
mathematically we keep our promises
is to do a handful of things. It turns
out, by doing this handful of things,
my 31⁄2-year-old little girl has a great
future, and the person who is a baby
boomer who has moved into retirement
also has a stable future.
We have been doing this every week,
our five elements of economic growth
of things that would provide popu-
lation stability, dealing with the bene-
fits and incentives to stay in the work-
force, technology disruptions, how
there is a revolution coming in
healthcare through technology and
these drugs that are curative, how we
are going to finance those and bring
those into society, so that we stop hav-
ing the debate on who pays in
healthcare but what we pay. We have
this ability to have this disruption.
Then the other thing is what we do to
continue the employment cycle, keep-
ing people in the labor force, encour-
aging others to enter it. We are going
to walk through some of those dif-
ferent numbers.
The crazy thing is this stuff
shouldn’t be Republican or Democrat.
This should be society’s goal, that
growth is moral because it provides op-
portunity.
I want to walk through a couple of
things that have happened in the last
few days. Think about the data we re-
ceived last Friday. If you love and care
about people, if you go back and look
at some of the economists’ writings
from just a couple of years ago about
our brothers and sisters who didn’t
graduate high school, who didn’t have
any particular technical skill sets, we
had written them off as being part of
the permanent underclass in our com-
munities and our society. Yet that is
the very quartile that right now is hav-
ing the fastest movement in their
wages.
How do we keep that going? How do
we keep that going as long as possible?
The jobs report, the unemployment
reports we received, was amazing. We
are hitting a trend where we are basi-
cally breaking all the rules. Those of
us who grew up reading this stuff, the
textbooks have to now be rewritten.
This is moral. This is something both
someone on the liberal side and con-
servative side should have joy about
the fact of the matter is that popu-
lations we had thought were going to
be functionally part of the permanent
underclass in our society are now see-
ing opportunity.
If this body was doing its actual
work, we would be fixated on how we
keep it going and keep it going for as
long as possible.
Let’s walk through some of the
things this economic growth is pro-
viding. I will openly admit that this
slide is out of scale because of the mar-
gin on it, but what is important is the
first 6 months of 2017—and that is the
fiscal year, so October on is the begin-
ning of the fiscal year—the first 6
months of 2017 and then the first 6
months of this fiscal year, prior to tax
reform, after tax reform.
One of these days, I keep being told
by my staff it would be far too snarky
to bring up here and just read the
quotes that were said about what
would happen to the economy with tax
reform, to read the quotes of what
would happen with employment and
tax reform, what would happen to Fed-
eral receipts with tax reform.
Guess what has happened? The first 6
months of this fiscal year, the first 6
months of 2017—the reason we do 2017 is
the first 6 months of the 2018 fiscal
year straddled part with tax reform,
part without—revenues were up.
They are not up a lot. It is about $10
billion. But the technical term is re-
ceipts are actually up.
Do we get an apology from all those
folks who basically got it wrong or just
a recognition that something amazing
is happening right now and we should
be joyful?
So what is happening? Why revenue
shortfalls compared to our spending?
If you want to dig in, a year ago,
spending on defense—but also, we have
to deal with the reality that, from 2008
to 2028, 91 percent of the spending in-
crease is going to be interest, Social
Security, healthcare entitlements. In
8.5 years, two workers, one retiree. In
8.5 years, 50 percent of the spending
coming through this body less interest
will be to those 65 and older.
Demographics are not a partisan
issue. They are just math. The fastest
growing population in our society is
those of us getting older, and somehow
this body is trying to turn it into
something partisan.
The fact of the matter is, if you go
back to the end of 2017, the modeling
said a 0.4 percent growth in GDP over
those 10 years. It would pay for itself.
Yet the base, the size of the overall
economy, would be dramatically larg-
er, meaning more of our brothers and
sisters having jobs, opportunities, and
economic vitality.
Guess what has happened so far? The
chart is a little hard to read, but if you
look at the green, which is 2019, and
you start to see where our mean GDP
growth is, you start to understand how
far we have come on that 0.4 percent
economic expansion in GDP growth
with the tax reform.
We are only 1.5 years into it. A year
and a half isn’t a complete sample size
of a 10-year tax policy, but at some
point, where is the joy? If you claim
you care about the working men and
women of the country, and you care
about people’s economic vitality, and
you care about their economic futures,
where is the joy?
Let’s start to do a couple of things
that should be joyful. Being from the
State of Arizona, where I have a fairly
substantial Latino population: lowest
unemployment in modern history ever
in our numbers. There is the chart.
Where is the joy?
The fact of the matter is that some-
thing is working in our society right
now. If you claim you love and care
about people, we should be trying to
figure out what we are doing right and
doing more of it. It is working.
A lot of the really smart people who
used to come lecture us and testify to
us even a couple of years ago, they got
it wrong. They are the same people we
are going to invite to come testify in
front of us next week, and we will
never get around to asking them why
they got their math so wrong.
What is the fragility? If you read the
joint tax documents when tax reform
was being put together, or you think
about what the headwinds are, we have
known our demographics, one of the
biggest headwinds for our society.
Within that, if you remember our five
points, one of those points is popu-
lation stability. That means we are
going to have to deal with ways to en-
courage family formation and deal
with immigration in a way that brings
that population vitality to our society.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.031 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3467
May 7, 2019
The two things that if you go back to
the joint tax reports saying the
headwinds for economic vitality to
work were capital stock, money that
was saved that could be loaned out to
buy the capital equipment, and those
things that were being incentivized, it
turns out if you look at the savings
rates the last 2 years after tax reform,
savings rates are substantially better
than anyone modeled.
It is a combination of a lot of things.
It is a combination of the population
getting older and getting ready for re-
tirement, a population that we just
misestimated, the number of busi-
nesses that were going to set aside
cash. But remember, when those sav-
ings are set aside, they become a mul-
tiplier effect in the economy because
they become lending capital.
As a simple example, take a look at
interest rates. Take a look at our in-
terest rates today compared to what
was being predicted. This is one of the
most unique times in modern history,
where we have, functionally, a full em-
ployment economy. You all fixated on
the numbers that happened today. Let
me pull it up. U.S. job openings re-
bounded sharply in March with 364,000,
seasonally adjusted, additional job
openings posted up in March.
Functionally, we have a society right
now with more jobs available than
labor. If I had come and told you that
was going to happen a couple of years
ago, what would you have thought?
What this chart is basically talking
about is labor force participation. As a
society, how do we deal with some of
that fragility? Because capital stock is
working, and the numbers are working,
but we are bouncing up against a fra-
gility. That is that we have more jobs
than we have available labor.
How do we encourage people to enter
the labor force? Should we create cer-
tain incentives and things for those
who are older to stay in the labor
force?
This is one of my last slides here. We
started seeing some really interesting
numbers if you really break down the
data. It started in December. Millen-
nial females have started to substan-
tially move into the workforce. Won-
derful.
Why do we have such a lagging effect
with millennial males? It is not Repub-
lican or Democrat. It is just that there
is something we need to try to under-
stand in how we get these populations
into the labor force.
Because if we are going to keep our
promises—and if you are like I am,
where you believe growth is ultimately
moral because it provides opportuni-
ties, stability, and the ability to plan
for our future, we need this growth to
continue.
What can we do to help our brothers
and sisters out there that, for some
barrier, are not entering the labor
force?
The other thing we also saw begin-
ning in December, which should make
you joyful, is some interesting data of
those who would be considered to have
a type of handicap moving into the
labor force, which was letting us know
that businesses were finally making ac-
commodations to draw in that popu-
lation. That is wonderful.
You could see some of that about 10
days ago, 2 weeks ago. The Medicare-
Social Security actuaries did one of
their reports. We have a problem, but
you also saw Social Security gained an
entire year. That means someone out
there is paying FICA revenues. But did
you see the number for those of our
brothers and sisters on Social Security
disability?
Some of that is that we changed
some rules. We tightened up some of
the mechanisms. But a big chunk of
that was those who have life challenges
were finding opportunities to work.
These are good things.
We should, once again, be joyful and
figure out, in the partisan divide of
this place, not to try to find excuses of,
well, this belongs to so-and-so or some-
one gets credit, but to figure out how
to do more of it. Let’s do more of it.
Then, during the election cycle, we will
figure out who gets to take credit for
it. We will all take credit for it. But
let’s do more of the good things.
As we start to look at some of the
labor force participation, one of the
other things we are also fixated on in
our office is that we are trying to real-
ly drill down to try to understand some
of the demographics.
I am personally fixated with the fact
that demographics often have much
more impact on what happens in a soci-
ety’s vitality than the policy we make
around here.
The fact of the matter is that we
have 74 million of our brothers and sis-
ters who are baby boomers. They were
born in an 18-year period. Remember,
in 8.5 years, they are all 65 and older.
b 2000
That bubble is the single biggest
challenge to this body. How often do
you have anyone get behind these
microphones and talk about: What are
we going to do to create as much eco-
nomic vitality so we actually have the
revenues, the resources, the oppor-
tunity, and the adoption of technology
to keep our commitments there for
those who are still vital and want to
stay in the workforce—there are oppor-
tunities—and, at the same time, reach-
ing the other direction, as we have seen
this unusual number with millennial
males, helping them find a path into
the labor force?
I know this is a little geeky, but
come back to the principle. If we as a
society are going to keep our promises
on Medicare and we as a society are
going to keep our promises on Social
Security, it turns out that economic
growth—and it is one of only five
things, but we are going to have to dra-
matically change the cost of
healthcare. I believe there is tech-
nology coming that is going to be the
disruption.
As I was saying before, think about
the ACA. Most folks know it as
ObamaCare, those of us who worked on
the Republican alternative. They were
debates about who got subsidized and
who paid; they were about the financ-
ing.
We haven’t had a debate about what
we as a body are going to do to encour-
age the technologies and the revolution
that is coming to crash the price, and
here is the thought experiment.
I have already done multiple presen-
tations here on the floor of the tech-
nology that is coming, the thing that
looks like a kazoo that you can blow
into and instantly tell you if you have
the flu. If we will make it legal, it can
bounce off the data on your phone,
which is your medical records, to make
sure you are not allergic to a par-
ticular antiviral and could order your
antiviral that could be delivered to
your house a couple of hours later. How
much healthier did we make society?
The other side is that 5 percent of
our population is well over 50 percent
of all of our healthcare spending. How
do we help that 5 percent with chronic
conditions live the type of life they de-
serve?
When you understand that—and I am
hopeful it still stays on time—some-
thing like the concept of a single-shot
cure for hemophilia, which may be
available this November. Now, the shot
is going to be really expensive, but a
hemophiliac may be about a quarter
million dollars a year in their clotting
factor and other ancillary costs.
But what sort of revolution is in our
society when you start to think about
these biological drugs that are cures,
what happens to that 5 percent of our
society that have chronic conditions
and we as a body start to say: Let’s
stop arguing about the financing side
of healthcare and start having this dis-
cussion of how we are going to finance
the cures that are really expensive but
are revolutions to our society and our
community?
We have a whole proposal we have
been working on on the idea of selling
a healthcare bond and then using the
future savings to pay for it, but we are
going to have to come up with some
sort of pricing mechanism because, in
many of these pharmaceuticals, it is a
one and done.
Even The Wall Street Journal, today,
has a discussion about a potential bio-
logical drug; $2 million is the discus-
sion price, but it is for this tiny popu-
lation of very, very young children who
have this disease that wastes their
body away, and they die within 2 years.
It is a moral imperative we find a way
to make that drug available.
But what is the economic value of
curing such a thing, even though it
may be a population of only a few hun-
dred of these children in our society?
These are optimistic, joyful, and
powerful opportunities, and this body
needs to wake up and stop having the
same debate we have been having for 20
or 30 years here because it is now the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.033 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3468 May 7, 2019
wrong debate. It turns out technology
has passed us, and so have our demo-
graphics.
So what do we do to incentive par-
ticipation in the economy, particularly
when you have an economy with dra-
matically more jobs than we have
available workers?
Here is this last slide. My hat is off
to millennial females. They have begun
entering the workforce in terrific num-
bers. If any of them happen to know a
millennial male, could you please grab
him by the hand and drag him into the
workforce.
My wife blames video games. I still
haven’t seen actual data on this yet.
So my reason for taking some of this
time tonight, I actually think there
should be some joy out there. For those
of us who get behind these microphones
and we claim we care about people,
there are really good things happening.
How do we make more of it happen?
How do we make this last as long as
possible? Because we as a body, Demo-
crats and Republicans, are in un-
charted territory, and we have got to
be brutally honest about this. We are
in uncharted territory.
If you actually read some of the fi-
nancial, economic articles over this
weekend, lots of really smart econo-
mists and businesspeople are talking
about having this type of economy
with functionally full employment,
with populations moving into the labor
force at the same time our available
workforce is starting to bend pretty
dramatically because of baby boomers
turning 65, and yet, functionally, no
core inflation—if there was ever a time
for us to functionally go after a num-
ber of societal ills with this type of op-
portunity to work.
And the last anecdote I am going to
give after making fun of anecdotes—
well, it is more than an anecdote; it is
an observation.
A few months ago, I visited the
homeless shelter in Phoenix. It is actu-
ally a fairly impressive facility. Over
here is St. Joseph the Worker; over
here is the dental clinic; over here is
where we help you get ID; here is the
24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week 12-step
meeting.
You walked in and saw St. Joseph the
Worker. It is a Catholic charity. I be-
lieve it has been around 100-plus years.
Their job is to help the most dis-
affected of our population, of our world
find work.
There was a stack of job posts, notes,
on top of the desk. Their greatest dif-
ficulty was how do they get someone
from the homeless campus to that dish-
washing job or to the stocking job or
these things to get them back into the
labor force in our society to begin that
nobility of work but also as becoming
part of their rehab programs.
We came up with this idea of, well, if
transportation is a fragility—we all
walk around with these in our pockets,
and there are these buttons that you
hit and a ride sharing comes up, and
many of those very companies will ac-
tually provide the service at a fraction
of the cost as a societal good.
We need to start thinking through
the types of technology that we all use
in our lives. How do we make it so that
the mother who might be on a Med-
icaid system can get to her prenatal
appointment? the person who has just
gone through Goodwill’s job training
actually can get to their job interview?
the person at the homeless campus ac-
tually can get to that job?
If you are from Phoenix, Arizona,
asking someone to stand out and wait
for the bus when it is 110 degrees, you
start to understand that maybe we
need to come up with a better solution.
I make the argument that we already
know the solution. We already use it
for ourselves and our children. We now
need to start thinking about, if labor
force participation is one of our great
fragilities for future economic growth
and that economic growth helps us
take care of our promises, how do we
get the most marginalized of our soci-
ety and make sure they have the same
opportunities? So this is one of those
moments.
I know I have covered a lot of things,
but I get to come behind the micro-
phone. Even with all the sourness that
happens around this place, I think
there should be some joy because we
are seeing our brothers and sisters who
had a really tough decade back with
some optimism and some options and
some hope. Our ethical obligation, I
think, is: How do we do more of it?
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
INFRASTRUCTURE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. KELLY) is recognized for
the remainder of the hour as the des-
ignee of the minority leader.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, for over 100 years, America’s
railways, roadways, runways, and riv-
ers were the envy of the entire world.
Now they are emblems of a past time
that requires significant upgrades to
support our current needs. They not
only allow us to participate in a global
economy, but allow us to dominate
that economy.
First, let me note that American in-
frastructure is made up of the fol-
lowing: 4.1 million miles of public high-
ways, over 600,000 bridges, 140,500 miles
of railways, 11,300 miles of public tran-
sit systems, 25,000 miles of navigable
waterways, 250 water ports, and 19,500
airports.
Much of that infrastructure is dec-
ades old and in dire need of repair. For
too long, America has stood by and al-
lowed our once world-leading infra-
structure to crumble.
Our competitors have not only
caught up with us, but, in many cases,
have surpassed us. Countries like China
and India spend billions on new roads,
new rails, and ports, while we have al-
lowed ours to decay.
America still has the most dynamic,
innovative, and diversified economy in
the entire world, but we must rebuild
our Nation’s infrastructure to remain
competitive.
Our taxpayers already pay enough in
taxes, so we have to find ways to pay
for these infrastructure improvements.
It is imperative that we do so without
putting a heavier burden on our hard-
working American taxpayers.
That is why I have worked on legisla-
tion over the years, with colleagues on
both sides of the aisle, that uses a com-
bination of public and private funds to
fix our public works. By working to-
gether, we can rebuild our Nation’s in-
frastructure by harnessing the private
sector’s capacity for innovation and in-
vestment, rather than raising taxes.
I would like to outline some of the
legislation that I am talking about,
which I believe is just the type of out-
side-the-box thinking we need to
achieve those goals.
Today, EARL BLUMENAUER and I in-
troduced the BUILD Act. This legisla-
tion raises the Federal statutory cap
on private activity bonds that can be
issued by or on behalf of State and
local governments for qualified high-
way and freight improvement projects
from $15 billion to $20.8 billion. In
short, it allows State and local govern-
ments to enhance their capacity to fi-
nance surface transportation projects
through private-public partnerships.
As more of our Nation’s infrastruc-
ture requires critical investment and
improvements, we must find ways to
reinvest in our roads and rails without
burdening our hardworking American
taxpayers. This bill will help finance
improvement projects at a minimal
cost to taxpayers with a maximum im-
pact on America’s roads, bridges, and
rails. This is a jobs bill.
I joined with Chairman DEFAZIO,
Ranking Member GRAVES, Representa-
tive NAPOLITANO, and Representative
WESTERMAN to introduce H.R. 2440, the
Full Utilization of the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund Act. This bipartisan
bill ensures the harbor maintenance
trust fund is used for its intended pur-
pose, and that is maintaining our fed-
erally authorized harbors.
Erie, Pennsylvania, knows that our
airports badly need this support. The
Port of Erie is part of our economic
lifeblood. For decades, cargo ships have
had to light load because of a lack of
dredging, significantly increasing the
cost per unit for shipped goods.
People ask: What do you mean by
light load? What I mean by that is they
cannot load to their full capacity. They
are light loading so the ships can navi-
gate through areas that have not been
dredged in years.
Our Nation’s 59 busiest ports are
available less than 35 percent of the
time. Conditions of our midsize and
emerging harbors are far worse.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.034 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3469
May 7, 2019
Currently, there is over $9 billion sit-
ting in the harbor maintenance trust
fund. This money has come from the
users of those assets. They have put
that money in for the express purpose
of thinking that it was going to be used
to improve the ports that they used.
Over the next decade, there is going
to be an additional $24.5 billion in rev-
enue that will be collected by the har-
bor maintenance tax. This bill provides
for the investment of approximately
$34 billion for our Nation’s coastal and
inland harbors over the next decade
without raising one dime in taxes for
our hardworking American taxpayers.
This money will provide for dredging of
all Federal harbors to their con-
structed widths and depths.
Because of developments like the
opening of the expanded Panama Canal
in 2016, larger container ships will in-
creasingly call upon our Nation’s ports,
and dredging is necessary if they are
allowed to have access to these ports.
Our goal is to guarantee that our Na-
tion is competitive in the global econ-
omy of the 21st century.
Also with EARL BLUMENAUER, I intro-
duced the Public Buildings Renewal
Act. This bipartisan legislation will
spur private investment in public
building infrastructure throughout the
United States by creating $5 billion in
private activity bonds for the improve-
ment of government-owned public
buildings.
In every small town or city in Amer-
ica, the conditions of our public
schools, our public hospitals, our uni-
versities, and our police and fire sta-
tions are deteriorating because of de-
layed maintenance. We just haven’t
been able to afford to do it.
With State and local budgets becom-
ing increasingly tight, capital invest-
ments in public buildings have fallen
by the wayside. For example, the aver-
age public school building is at least 40
years old, and the current backlog of
maintenance and repair projects adds
up to more than $45 billion, annually,
in unmet funding needs.
b 2015
The Public Building Renewal Act
aims to unlock private sector capital
for the public sector’s benefit. The pub-
lic buildings that house vital services
for Americans must be maintained and
improved.
We have also dropped the Building
Rail Access for Customers and the
Economy Act. Representative BLU-
MENAUER and I introduced this bill just
recently.
The short line rail industry operates
on nearly 50,000 miles of railroad track
in 49 states. And is part of the origina-
tion or the termination of one out of
every five cars, railroad cars, on the
national railroad system.
Short line railroads serve the most
vulnerable part of the rail network.
Small towns and small businesses who
would have otherwise been cut off from
the national network, are now served
by the short lines.
Unfortunately, though, as the freight
rail industry has evolved, many short
line railroads and smaller communities
have been abandoned.
This removes a critical first- and
last-mile link between producers, con-
sumers, and export opportunities in
large and small communities across
America.
Since it was first enacted in 2005, the
1- or 2-year increment extensions of the
Short Line Railroad Maintenance Cred-
it provided limited certainty for short
line railroads to make investments in
their infrastructure.
Our legislation delivers confidence by
making the short line railroad mainte-
nance credit permanent while also ap-
plying it retroactively to tax year 2018.
The short line railroad maintenance
tax credit is responsible for more than
$4 billion of investment in privately
held short line railroads across Amer-
ica.
The tax credit requires the short line
railroad to invest $1 dollar for every 50
cents in credit up to a credit cap of
$3,500 per track mile.
In 2015 alone, 2,140 rail miles were im-
proved.
5.27 million railroad ties were re-
placed; and the short line industry in-
vested nearly 25 percent of their rev-
enue on infrastructure improvements.
These investments ensure that more
than 10,000 rail companies can rely on
safe, efficiently and economically com-
petitive transportation for their prod-
ucts.
Also, I would like to talk just a little
bit about the GAIIN Act.
During the last Congress, I intro-
duced a bipartisan bill with a broad co-
alition from the Republican Study
Committee, the Congressional Black
Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus, and the House Freedom Cau-
cus.
This legislation has the potential to
help fund critical infrastructure
projects in the Nation’s poorest com-
munities while simultaneously paying
down on our national debt.
The poorest areas in our country
have been routinely overlooked or are
in dire need of infrastructure improve-
ments that will facilitate economic
growth and self-sustainability.
Reviving these forgotten cities and
breathing life back into these towns
throughout America is both a moral
and economic imperative that uniquely
unites all lawmakers on both sides of
the aisle.
Selling some of the $2 trillion of non-
performing debt and lease assets held
by Federal agencies on the open mar-
ket would be a good strategy for a
down payment on infrastructure im-
provements.
The GAIIN Act will do that and re-
duce our debt without asking tax-
payers for one more penny of their
money.
Half the proceeds from these sales
will be put into projects and commu-
nities below the poverty line and di-
rectly lead to jobs and economic
growth where it is most needed.
Also, the contractors doing this work
in these communities would be re-
quired to hire people who actually live
there, to help build these products and
projects.
Imagine the generational pride that
will be created when fathers and moth-
ers and grandfathers and grandmothers
tell their children and grandchildren,
‘‘We rebuilt this community for you.’’
It lasts for generations, and it is a
pride that you can’t just stop thinking
about how good it is for our country.
Now, the other half of the revenue we
collect would go to debt reduction. And
this is a private-sector solution to a
public-sector problem, and another
huge win for America.
It is time for us to come together as
a Nation to keep America on its path
of greatness.
This is not a red State or blue State
issue. This is not a Republican or Dem-
ocrat issue. This is a red, white, and
blue American issue.
We must make sure American infra-
structure allows our people to compete
in the global economy now and in the
future. In an economy that we not only
participate in, but that we dominate,
that America takes its rightful place in
the world when it comes to what we
are able to do.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the
President’s rescission of the onerous
regulations unleashed our economy,
and we are seeing the best job numbers
that we have seen in over half a cen-
tury.
Now, in order for that success to be
sustained and long-term, it is incum-
bent that we upgrade our infrastruc-
ture.
So I call on all my colleagues to
work together and come up with cre-
ative solutions to pay for these very
necessary improvements and to sup-
port the bills I have outlined today.
America’s best times lie in front of
her, not behind her. And once again, it
is Yankee ingenuity that will lead us
to the top again and we will become
that country that others long to belong
to and become a part of.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. GARAMENDI) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, one
of the things that occasionally happens
here on the floor of the House late at
night, when most everybody is doing
something else, is an opportunity to
hear what our Republican colleagues
want to talk about, and I must com-
mend them.
I actually sat through a very fas-
cinating discussion on the American
economy by Mr. SCHWEIKERT about
jobs, about the development of the
workforce and the way it relates to So-
cial Security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.036 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3470 May 7, 2019
Very, very interesting. And I just
wish there were 433 or 434 others that
could have listened to what he had to
say. And he very well described a fas-
cinating part of the American economy
and how it might relate to our future.
I am going to go into it in a few mo-
ments.
I had no idea that our colleague was
going to pick up the short line railroad
issue, which is a big deal in my dis-
trict. I have a very large agriculture
district in California, and the short
line railroads are critically important.
And as we talk about infrastructure—
yeah—we really ought to be consid-
ering the first and the last mile. In
other words, the short line railroads
and how they fit into this transpor-
tation system that is so critically im-
portant to the American economy.
Fascinating. I want to commend my
Republican colleagues for bringing all
of that to the floor, and I am going to
make a few comments about it.
Let’s start with Mr. SCHWEIKERT on
the issue of Social Security and grow-
ing the jobs.
He is absolutely correct. If we have a
robust economy, if the men and women
of America are working, they will be
paying into Social Security insurance
systems and the life, the viability, and
the financial integrity of the Social Se-
curity system will be improved.
One of the facts that Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, my friend from Arizona,
pointed out is that, already with the
economy as it is, we have extended, by
1 year, the financial viability of Social
Security.
Now, think for a few moments. And
my colleague didn’t bring this up, but
if the minimum wage, either legally in
law or in competition for quality work-
ers, were to increase, say, across the
Nation to $15 an hour, then that much
more revenue would flow into the So-
cial Security system.
So as we think about these things
and as he correctly pointed out, high
employment, very low unemployment,
is a benefit to the viability of Social
Security, to say nothing of the viabil-
ity of the individual that is able to
earn a living, to participate in which-
ever way they may desire to engage in
the economic activities of this Nation.
All very, very good points, and I real-
ly want to commend them for that.
One issue that was discussed, but I
don’t think was fully explained, is how
do you prepare people.
Years and years ago in California, in
the 1980s, I led a committee on the fu-
ture of the California economy. And we
studied the California economy, we
studied the world economy, the history
of the growth of the California econ-
omy, which today remains the largest
economy—I guess, it is fifth largest
economy in the world—and one of the
most rapid-growing and one of the
most advanced.
We said then that if a government—
really, the people—of a society, were to
invest in education, and if you had the
best educated workforce in the world,
you would have the best economy.
Now, California does not have the
best education system at K through 12.
Community college and the university
systems, public and private, are ex-
traordinary, literally, the best in the
world.
Now, if we were to add that same
principle to the American economy,
then those men and women that are ill-
prepared to enter a modern workforce,
could—in the K through 12 system,
high school—begin their preparation to
enter into the workforce at a skilled
level.
Maybe that skill is computer science,
and all of that, or maybe it is welding,
or in the construction trades. Whatever
it is, they would be prepared.
And so as we look at the options that
were discussed first by Mr. SCHWEIKERT
as he talked about the workforce, I
would suggest that he look at this
issue of education. I know he men-
tioned it, but how do we then fund it.
And here is where we ought to have an
interesting debate.
In December of 2017, my Republican
colleagues and the President decided
that the way to grow the economy was
to massively cut taxes, and they did.
Probably a trillion and a half dollars
over the next 10 years—a massive, mas-
sive tax cut—that significantly reduced
the revenue to the Federal Govern-
ment.
Choices were made in that process.
The choice that was made was to re-
duce taxes a little bit across the board.
Working men and women and families
did receive a tax reduction.
In my view, it was very small, and
certainly statistically—and by the
numbers—very, very small compared to
the top 10 percent, the top 1 percent
that received a massive tax cut. And
American corporations saw their tax
rate fall from 35 percent down to 20
percent.
Now, that was supposed to create
massive economic growth, and it could
be argued that we have had a good
economy for the last year or so. And
my colleagues did put up some charts
to support that argument; however, we
need to consider some of the under-
lying implications of that.
First of all, who got the great bulk?
90 percent—I guess, about 80 percent—
of that great tax reduction went to the
superwealthy and the corporations.
b 2030
What did they do with it? Did they
invest in the elements of economic
growth, education, research, capital
outlay in businesses, and transpor-
tation and infrastructure? Was that
where the tax reductions were in-
vested? Well, no.
The corporations used the clear ma-
jority, in the 60 to 70 percent range, of
their reduced tax for stock buyback,
which had the wonderful effect of driv-
ing up the price of stock.
Who benefited from that? Was it the
working men and women in the ship-
yards or on the short-line railroads, or
the teachers in education? No. It was
the top 10 percent who owned the
stock.
Let’s think this through. Now, none-
theless, the economy has grown, and I
would posit that one of the reasons the
economy has grown is the Keynesian
economic theory. The Keynesian eco-
nomic theory, developed in the 1930s
with the Great Depression, was that
when the economy is slow or depressed,
government steps in with deficit spend-
ing. Government supports the economy
with deficit spending.
Guess what is happening today: mas-
sive deficit spending by the govern-
ment, tax reductions, $1.5 trillion gone
this year, a $1 trillion deficit for the
Federal Government. By the facts,
massive deficit spending by the govern-
ment, not in education, not in infra-
structure, but, rather, in the military
and, interestingly enough, through the
tax policy so that the great benefit
went to the top 10 percent. Nonethe-
less, we have seen a stimulated econ-
omy, as Keynes suggested would hap-
pen with deficit spending.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT correctly points out
that we have not seen the inflation,
thankfully, and interest rates have re-
mained low. I would posit the reason
for that is that we are still importing
cheap products from around the world,
and despite the chaos here in Wash-
ington, D.C., the safest bet in the world
is America. People are continuing to
buy American bonds and invest in
America, bonds and debt, all of which
has kept the interest rates low.
Here is what I would suggest we look
at, and there is a lot of opportunity
that exists. I was really enthusiasti-
cally listening to Mr. SCHWEIKERT as he
laid out his proposals and his descrip-
tion of the economy and the labor
force. I would suggest that we continue
this debate.
I spoke to the gentleman a few mo-
ments ago. I said: Let’s get in a col-
loquy back here. You can open with
your discussion, and I will come back
with my side of it. I think we have
some opportunity here to really de-
velop some decent policy.
Let’s take investing. There is a lot of
talk about infrastructure investing. We
are going to have to find the money for
that. Can we do it all on debt with def-
icit financing? I don’t think so. I think
there is going to be some limit to that,
so we need to talk about tax revenue.
We might want to go back and revisit
the 2017 tax cut and who benefited and
what the opportunities might be to re-
arrange that equation.
What would we invest in? Infrastruc-
ture. Now, if we are going to invest in
infrastructure, we already know we are
short of skilled labor. That brings us to
education and labor force preparation.
Is there a role for the Federal Govern-
ment here, together with the State
governments and businesses, to develop
the workforce, to train the workforce?
The answer is absolutely yes.
We know how to do this. This has
been done before during World War II.
As Mr. SCHWEIKERT pointed out cor-
rectly, the millennial women joining
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.038 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3471
May 7, 2019
the labor force—guess who the millen-
nial women were in 1942 and 1943? Yes,
they were Rosie the Riveter. Who
trained them in the government con-
tracts to the shipbuilders, to the tank
builders, to the truck builders? There
was money in those contracts to train
the workforce. The government, to-
gether with the private sector, trained
the workforce. The models are there.
We do have community colleges. We
do have apprenticeship programs with
labor unions, labor-management ap-
prenticeship programs. All of those are
there.
If we need a well-trained workforce,
we don’t need to reinvent it. It is al-
ready available to us: labor-manage-
ment apprenticeship programs and the
Federal Government providing incen-
tives in the contracts for shipbuilding.
I was talking to one of my Demo-
cratic colleagues about a shipyard that
was unable to have trained workers:
welders, shipbuilders, plumbers, pipe-
fitters, and the like. The company was
not investing in the workforce, in the
apprenticeship programs. That can be
solved.
If we need to subsidize that through
the contracts, do it. Set it aside, make
it a special part of it. Yes, you are
going to build naval ships, but, yes,
you are also going to train workers.
Here is how it will be done. Here is the
money to do it. We can do these things.
Education, research, fundamental in-
vestments, we need to pay attention to
making it in America. I have spent
days and days here on the floor in
these Special Order hours talking
about how we can do that. I want to
give you an example.
America today is exporting oil and
natural gas. Ten years ago, we used to
be net importers. Now we are net ex-
porters. That strategic natural re-
source is going out to the world, large-
ly to China, on ships. Whose ships?
This strategic national asset needs to
be coupled with another strategic na-
tional asset, which is the American
maritime industry.
Consider for a moment, if we were to
require that a small percentage of that
oil and natural gas be on American-
built ships with American crews,
American mariners, what would hap-
pen. One, 2, 3, percent, up to 5, 6, 7, 8
percent over the next decade, we would
build 50 ships. In the shipyards across
America, we would employ American
workers to build those ships.
Is it possible? Absolutely, it is pos-
sible. Do you know what it takes? It
takes a very simple law requiring that,
for the necessity of America’s national
security, we be able to maintain our
maritime industry so that, should
something happen, we will be able to
transport across the oceans of the
world our military as needed, that we
in our shipyards maintain the work-
force and the viability of the shipyards
so that they can build the necessary
naval vessels.
Is it possible? All it takes is a law.
I recommend that we pay attention. I
introduced this legislation last year
with my good friend, Senator WICKER
from the Senate side, and we are going
to reintroduce it here in the next few
days.
The Energizing American Ship-
building Act will soon be on the floor
of the House and the Senate. I draw our
attention to that because it combines a
necessary national security issue with
jobs.
However, what I said a moment ago
is critical. That is that, along the way
in this process, we must train workers
starting in high school, starting with
the apprenticeship programs, making
sure that the shipyard businesses are
in the business of training workers to-
gether with community colleges and
other apprenticeship programs. If we
do this, even if we need to subsidize
that process, we will grow this econ-
omy, and we will have high-paid, high-
skilled workers.
Similarly, as we rebuild the Amer-
ican bridges, as we rebuild the short-
line railroads, as we rebuild the infra-
structure of America, whether it is in
high-speed internet communications
systems or in highway transportation,
river transportation, all the rest, we
need to keep in mind the training of
the workforce.
I thank Mr. SCHWEIKERT for bringing
to the attention of the floor tonight
this critical issue. There are so many
things we can do together. There are
different ways of approaching this. But
I know that if we are willing to engage
in a debate, an honest debate about
growing the American economy, about
making sure that our task is for the
people, not the special interests but for
the fundamental American working
men and women, we will be successful.
Again, we can do it through edu-
cation, job training, research, make it
in America, and paying attention to
our infrastructure.
If we are short 350,000 workers to fill
the 350,000 jobs that are open today,
then it is incumbent upon this Con-
gress to get at it.
I want to do one final thing. There is
an infrastructure project in California.
It is an infrastructure project that has
been discussed for the last 30 years, and
it is an infrastructure project that is
extraordinarily damaging.
California water is extremely com-
plex. Basically, water flows from
northern California rivers into the
great Sacramento-San Joaquin River
Delta, the largest inland estuary on
the West Coast of the Western Hemi-
sphere, an extraordinary place, a place
that I represent and a place where I
have lived for the last 40-some years.
It is an extraordinary part of Amer-
ica. It is now a national heritage area.
It has been suggested over the last
three decades that the water systems
of California need to circumvent the
natural flow of water into this estuary.
Over this period of time, I have had the
obligation to fight those proposals.
First, it was the Peripheral Canal to
take the water around the delta. Then
in the last decade, it has been the Twin
Tunnels, two massive tunnels that lit-
erally had the capacity to drain the
Sacramento River, to drain it dry. The
river runs some 12,000 to 16,000 cubic
feet per second 6 months of the year.
The tunnels were sized at 16,000 cubic
feet per second and, therefore, capable
of literally drying the delta and de-
stroying the incredible ecosystem of
the delta.
We fought. We fought the battle, and
I commend our new Governor, Gov-
ernor Newsom, for stepping back and
taking the time to rethink this pro-
posal called the California WaterFix,
to rethink its impact on the ecology
and the environment of the delta. I
thank him for taking WaterFix and
pushing it aside.
He said no, we are not going to pur-
sue that. We are going to go back and
do the environmental analysis, not on
two tunnels capable of drying out the
delta or drying out the Sacramento
River, but, rather, look at how this
water problem in California can be
solved without ecological damage.
We will pursue this once again, and I
know that it can be done. Nearly 8
years ago, I proposed what I called a
Water Plan for All California. It laid
out solutions, not that I developed, but
that had been developed by Califor-
nians in the water industry, in the ag-
ricultural industry, in the urban as
well as the agricultural water systems.
Those proposals have been out there.
We simply compiled them into a pro-
gram: conservation, storage, paying at-
tention to the aquifers, paying atten-
tion to the ecology of the fish and the
environment, and providing in the
delta a solution built upon improving
the transport of water through the nat-
ural levees and through the natural
sluices and rivers while keeping in
mind that water should not be exported
when it would damage the fish. All of
that is possible. That law is now in
place; it is called the WIN legislation,
water infrastructure.
Now, we can move forward with a
new opportunity as we revisit a solu-
tion that is both good for the environ-
ment, good for the delivery of water to
all Californians, and done in a way that
does not set up an existential danger,
an existential system that could dam-
age forever the largest estuary on the
West Coast of the Western Hemisphere.
We can do it. Just as the optimism
that I heard from my Republican col-
leagues in the first order hour here, I
present an optimistic opportunity. I
am not yet joyful, but I am optimistic
because I know these solutions are
there if we work together and if we
keep our eye on the prize for the peo-
ple, for the American people, not just
the superwealthy, not just the major
American corporations, but for mom
and pop, for Wall Street, for the men
and women who are working in the
shipyards, working on the rails, and for
those millennial women who are enter-
ing the workforce and the millennial
men who will be following along.
I am optimistic, and I hope to be joy-
ful.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.039 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3472 May 7, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Ms. JACKSON LEE (at the request of
Mr. HOYER) for today on account of
travel delay.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 693. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/MIA
flag be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on certain
Federal property; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 46 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, May 8, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
893. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Jeffrey S. Buchanan, United States
Army, and his advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list, pursu-
ant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513,
Sec. 112 (as amended by Public Law 104-106,
Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
894. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Robert S. Williams, Air National
Guard of the United States, and his advance-
ment to the grade of lieutenant general on
the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
895. A letter from the Under Secretary, Re-
search and Engineering, Department of De-
fense, transmitting the Department’s Cal-
endar Year 2018 List and Description of Ac-
tivities at the Science and Technology Re-
invention Laboratory Personnel Demonstra-
tion Projects, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2358
note; Public Law 110-181, Sec. 1107(d); (122
Stat. 358) and 5 U.S.C. 4703(b)(4)(B); Public
Law 95-454, Sec. 601(a); (92 Stat. 1186); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
896. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of lieutenant
General Gwendolyn Bingham, United States
Army, and her advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list, pursu-
ant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513,
Sec. 112 (as amended by Public Law 104-106,
Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
897. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Walter E. Carter, Jr., United States Navy,
and his advancement to the grade of vice ad-
miral on the retired list, pursuant to 10
U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112
(as amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec.
502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
898. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of General
Thomas D. Waldhauser, United States Ma-
rine Corps, and his advancement to the grade
of general on the retired list, pursuant to 10
U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112
(as amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec.
502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
899. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Department of Defense, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Defense Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Contract Closeout Authority (DFARS Case
2018-D012) [Docket: DARS-2018-0029] (RIN:
0750-AJ76) received April 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
900. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Small Business Set-Asides for Architect-En-
gineer and Construction Design Contracts
(DFARS Case 2018-D057) [Docket: DARS-2018-
0056] (RIN: 0750-AK18) received April 30, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
901. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Restriction on the Acquisition of Certain
Magnets and Tungsten (DFARS Case 2018-
D054) [Docket: DARS-2019-0016] (RIN: 0750-
AK15) received April 30, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
902. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility; West
Virginia: Fairmont, City of, Marion County
[Docket ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8573] received April 30,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
903. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Amendment of Section 73.622(i) Post-
Transition Table of DTV Allotments (Bridge-
port and Stamford, Connecticut) [MB Docket
No.: 18-126] (RM-11800) received April 30, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
904. A letter from the Associate Bureau
Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, Federal
Communications Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s final rule — Connect
America Fund [WC Docket No.: 10-90] re-
ceived April 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
905. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to the situation in or in
relation to the Democratic Republic of the
Congo that was declared in Executive Order
13413 of October 27, 2006, pursuant to 50
U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c);
(90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); Public
Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat. 1627); to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
906. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to significant narcotics
traffickers centered in Colombia declared in
Executive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995, pur-
suant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412,
Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C.
1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat.
1627); to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
907. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Revisions to the
Unverified List (UVL) [Docket No.: 190130021-
9021-01] (RIN: 0694-AH73) received April 30,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
908. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Department of Defense, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Defense Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulation Supplement: Use
of the Government Property Clause (DFARS
Case 2015-D035) [Docket: DARS-2016-0035]
(RIN: 0750-AJ11) received April 30, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
909. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Security Zone; Cum-
berland River, Nashville, TN [Docket Num-
ber: USCG-2019-0152) [RIN: 1625-AA87] re-
ceived April 26, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
910. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Sabine
River, Orange, TX [Docket Number: USCG-
2019-0160] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received April 26,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
911. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Special
Local Regulation; Bush River and Otter
Point Creek, Harford County, MD [Docket
Number: USCG-2019-0083] (RIN: 1625-AA08) re-
ceived April 26, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
912. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of the Prohi-
bition Against Certain Flights in the Tripoli
Flight Information Region (FIR) (HLLL)
[Docket No.: FAA-2011-0246; Amdt. No.: 91-
321D] (RIN: 2120-AL40) received April 25, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
913. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment and Estab-
lishment of Multiple Air Traffic Service
(ATS) Routes; Western United States [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0232; Airspace Docket No.:
17-ANM-33] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received April
25, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07MY7.041 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3473
May 7, 2019
914. A letter from the Management of Pro-
gram Analyst, FAA, Department of Trans-
portation, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Airworthiness Directives; Hon-
eywell International Inc. Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2018-0719; Product Identi-
fier 2016-NE-24-AD; Amendment 39-19589; AD
2019-05-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received April 25,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
915. A letter from the Chairman, Surface
Transportation Board, transmitting the
Board’s final rule — Payment, Filing, and
Service Procedures [Docket No.: EP 747] re-
ceived April 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
916. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Energy, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s report to Congress concerning the
Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facil-
ity under construction at the Department’s
Savannah River Site near Aiken, South
Carolina, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 2566(a)(3)(A);
Public Law 107-314, Sec. 4306(a)(3)(A); (116
Stat. 2747); jointly to the Committees on En-
ergy and Commerce and Armed Services.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. SHALALA: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 357. Resolution providing
for consideration for the bill (H.R. 986) to
provide that certain guidance related to
waivers for State innovation under the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act
shall have no force or effect, and providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2157) mak-
ing supplemental appropriations for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–51). Referred to the
House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas (for herself
and Mr. LUCAS):
H.R. 2528. A bill to direct the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy
to carry out programs and activities to en-
sure that Federal science agencies and insti-
tutions of higher education receiving Fed-
eral research and development funding are
fully engaging their entire talent pool, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
MCCAUL):
H.R. 2529. A bill to require certain reports
and briefings to Congress relating to the ex-
piration of the New START Treaty, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. CUMMINGS):
H.R. 2530. A bill to provide temporary au-
thority to the general counsel of the Merit
Systems Protection Board to grant stays of
personnel actions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. AMODEI (for himself, Mr. GOH-
MERT, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. COOK, Mr. GOSAR, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. STEWART, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Mr. HAGEDORN, and Mr.
GIANFORTE):
H.R. 2531. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
to more efficiently develop domestic sources
of the minerals and mineral materials of
strategic and critical importance to the eco-
nomic and national security and manufac-
turing competitiveness of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. NEGUSE,
and Mr. KHANNA):
H.R. 2532. A bill to protect grizzly bear pop-
ulations, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committee on Agriculture, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 2533. A bill to assist community water
systems affected by PFAS contamination,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HIMES:
H.R. 2534. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit certain se-
curities trading and related communications
by those who possess material, nonpublic in-
formation; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself and Ms.
FUDGE):
H.R. 2535. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to ensure
that child protective services systems do not
permit the separation of children from par-
ents on the basis of poverty, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 2536. A bill to repeal the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act and health
care-related provisions in the Health Care
and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committees on Education and Labor,
Ways and Means, the Judiciary, Natural Re-
sources, Rules, House Administration, Ap-
propriations, and the Budget, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan (for him-
self, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. VARGAS, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Ms. NORTON, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. UPTON,
Mr. WALBERG, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. STE-
VENS, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. TLAIB, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, and Mr. AMASH):
H.R. 2537. A bill to defer removal of certain
nationals of Iraq for a 24-month period, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 2538. A bill to create child safety ac-
counts in the District of Columbia, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 2539. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to prioritize the assign-
ment of certain officers and intelligence ana-
lysts from the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration and the Office of Intelligence
and Analysis of the Department of Homeland
Security to locations with participating
State, local, and regional fusion centers in
jurisdictions with a high-risk surface trans-
portation asset in order to enhance the secu-
rity of such assets, including by improving
timely sharing of classified information re-
garding terrorist and other threats, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security.
By Mr. FLORES (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. WOMACK, and Mr. COSTA):
H.R. 2540. A bill to alleviate the ethanol
blend wall under the renewable fuel program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, and Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 2541. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the national
limitation amount for qualified highway or
surface freight transfer facility bonds; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 2542. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to make grants for the oper-
ation of a clearinghouse to collect, conduct,
and fund research on the influences of highly
automated vehicles on land use, urban de-
sign, transportation, real estate, and munic-
ipal budgets, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, and in addition to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. COOPER, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. GALLAGHER, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI):
H.R. 2543. A bill to amend the Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery Im-
provement Act of 2012, including making
changes to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for im-
proved detection, prevention, and recovery of
improper payments to deceased individuals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 2544. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to clarify that, during a lapse in
appropriations beginning on or after October
1, 2020, positions relating to providing serv-
ices for paying or reimbursing Federal em-
ployees for official travel are excepted serv-
ices under the Anti-Deficiency Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07MY7.000 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3474 May 7, 2019
H.R. 2545. A bill to create an Office of Cy-
bersecurity at the Federal Trade Commis-
sion for supervision of data security at con-
sumer reporting agencies, to require the pro-
mulgation of regulations establishing stand-
ards for effective cybersecurity at consumer
reporting agencies, to impose penalties on
credit reporting agencies for cybersecurity
breaches that put sensitive consumer data at
risk, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself and Mr.
NEGUSE):
H.R. 2546. A bill to designate certain lands
in the State of Colorado as components of
the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr.
HASTINGS):
H.R. 2547. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to require States to
allow an individual to cure a mismatched
signature on a mail-in or provisional ballot,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Mrs. FLETCHER (for herself, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 2548. A bill to modify eligibility re-
quirements for certain hazard mitigation as-
sistance programs, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on Financial Services, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself and Ms.
HAALAND):
H.R. 2549. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to require
that equitable distribution of assistance in-
clude equitable distribution to Indian tribes
and tribal organizations and to increase
amounts reserved for allotment to Indian
tribes and tribal organizations under certain
circumstances, and to provide for a Govern-
ment Accountability Office report on child
abuse and neglect in American Indian tribal
communities; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Natural Resources, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr.
WENSTRUP, and Ms. JACKSON LEE):
H.R. 2550. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize the use of
Homeland Security Grant Program funds for
anti-blood loss purposes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio, Mrs. DINGELL, and Mr.
HUIZENGA):
H.R. 2551. A bill to require the Under Sec-
retary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update
periodically the environmental sensitivity
index products of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration for each coastal
area of the Great Lakes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Ms.
STEFANIK):
H.R. 2552. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to prevent cer-
tain payment reductions for clinic visit serv-
ices furnished at excepted off-campus out-
patient departments of a provider under the
Medicare program; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 2553. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for certain index
fund investments from the Postal Service
Retiree Health Benefits Fund, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, and Mr. GALLAGHER):
H.R. 2554. A bill to improve the ability of
separating or retiring members of the Armed
Forces to seek services provided by county
veterans service officers; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. CRAWFORD, and
Mrs. LEE of Nevada):
H.R. 2555. A bill to amend the Combat Duty
Pay Act of 1952 to require that former mem-
bers of the uniformed services who were cap-
tured or entered a missing-in-action status
during the Korean War while serving as a
member of a combat unit in Korea receive
combat pay for each month spent in a cap-
tured or missing-in-action status, rather
than just a total of four months; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 2556. A bill to provide for an extension
of the authority of the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to provide for the conduct of medical
disability examinations by contract physi-
cians; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Ms. STEFANIK,
Ms. TITUS, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada):
H.R. 2557. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the recruitment of
physicians in the Department of Veterans
Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2558. A bill to define the dollar as a
fixed weight of gold; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2559. A bill to provide for the first
true audit of gold owned by the United
States in more than 65 years, and subsequent
audits every 5 years; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. NORMAN (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER, Ms. SHERRILL, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. COLE, and Mr.
GIANFORTE):
H.R. 2560. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude certain dis-
ability-related first responder retirement
payments from gross income; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. OMAR (for herself, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 2561. A bill to authorize the imposi-
tion of sanctions on officials of Brunei re-
sponsible for implementing the newly re-
vised penal code, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for
himself, Mrs. DAVIS of California, and
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan):
H.R. 2562. A bill to reauthorize title VI of
the Higher Education Act of 1965; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself and
Mr. CUMMINGS):
H.R. 2563. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to issue guidance and rec-
ommendations for institutions of higher edu-
cation on removing criminal and juvenile
justice questions from their application for
admissions process; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. BUCHANAN):
H.R. 2564. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for a special
enrollment period under Medicare for indi-
viduals enrolled in COBRA continuation cov-
erage, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, and Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and Mr.
GALLAGHER):
H.R. 2565. A bill to implement the rec-
ommendations of the U.S.-China Economic
and Security Review Commission, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Foreign Affairs, Oversight and Re-
form, the Judiciary, Intelligence (Permanent
Select), Armed Services, and Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 2566. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to revise the Safer Choice Standard
to provide for a Safer Choice label for pots,
pans, and cooking utensils that do not con-
tain PFAS, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. WILD (for herself, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. DEAN, Ms. FUDGE, and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 2567. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to require
mandatory reporting of incidents of child
abuse or neglect, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Mr. KING of New
York, Miss RICE of New York, and
Ms. LOFGREN):
H.R. 2568. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to study and report on the
prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in vet-
erans of the Vietnam era, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. KATKO):
H. Res. 355. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to di-
rect the Chief Administrative Officer to
carry out an annual information security
training program for Members, officers, and
employees of the House; to the Committee
on Rules.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. UPTON,
and Mr. KING of New York):
H. Res. 356. A resolution expressing support
for designation of May as ‘‘National Asthma
and Allergy Awareness Month’’; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. KIND, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. MEADOWS,
Ms. OMAR, and Mr. WRIGHT):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07MY7.100 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3475
May 7, 2019
H. Res. 358. A resolution calling on the
Government of Cameroon and armed groups
to respect the human rights of all
Cameroonian citizens, to end all violence,
and to pursue a broad-based dialogue with-
out preconditions to resolve the conflict in
the Northwest and Southwest regions; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mr.
GRIJALVA):
H. Res. 359. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Healthy Schools
Day; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
41. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of Maine, rel-
ative to House Joint Resolution 1047, re-
spectfully urging and requesting that the
President of the United States not issue an
Executive Order withdrawing the United
States from the Paris Agreement; which was
referred to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
42. Also, a memorial of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the State of Illinois, relative
to House Resolution 65, urging the United
States Congress and President Donald
Trump to pass the Federal Reserve Trans-
parency Act of 2019; which was referred to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
43. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Idaho, relative to Senate Joint
Memorial No. 102, urging the United States
Congress to vote to propose the Regulation
Freedom Amendment to the United States
Constitution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
44. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Idaho, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution No. 104, supporting the construc-
tion of a new pipeline to bring Snake River
water to mountain Home Air Force Base to
ensure the long-term viability of the base;
which was referred jointly to the Commit-
tees on Armed Services and Energy and Com-
merce.
45. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Idaho, relative to Senate Joint
Memorial No. 106, urging the President of
the United States and Congress to take such
action as necessary to require the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agri-
culture to recognize valid easements existing
pursuant to the 1866 Mining Act on lands
under their respective administrations with-
out requiring citizens of the United States to
sue the government in order to enjoy the
benefits of such validly existing easement
rights; which was referred jointly to the
Committees on Natural Resources and Agri-
culture.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives. the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 2628.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 2529.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 2530.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution of the United States grants Con-
gress the power to enact this law.
By Mr. AMODEI:
H.R. 2531.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to provide
for the common defense and general welfare
of the United States enumerated in Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2532.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 2533.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. HIMES:
H.R. 2534.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 2535.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 2536.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the
debts and provide for the common defense
and general welfare of the United States; but
all duties, imposts and excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.’’
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 2537.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 2538.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 2539.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 2540.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2541.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause I
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2542.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause III
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 2543.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 2544.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2545.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution [Page H2939]
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2546.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 and Article IV, section
3 of the Constitution of the United States.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 2547.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mrs. FLETCHER:
H.R. 2548.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18. To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2549.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ 1 and 8.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 2550.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2551.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 2552.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 2553.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, cl. 18
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 2554.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 2555.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 2556.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07MY7.100 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3476 May 7, 2019
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 2557.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2558.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 5 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2559.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This legislation is authorized by Article I,
Section 8 of the Constitution: ‘‘To coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of
foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights
and measures;’’ and ‘‘To provide for the pun-
ishment of counterfeiting the securities and
current coin of the United States.’’
By Mr. NORMAN:
H.R. 2560.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 2561.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 2562.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1, ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution provides Congress with the author-
ity to ‘‘provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare’’ of Americans. In the De-
partment of Education Organization Act
(P.L. 96–88), Congress declared that ‘‘the es-
tablishment of a Department of Education is
in the public interest, will promote the gen-
eral welfare of the United States, will help
ensure that education issues receive proper
treatment at the Federal level, and will en-
able the Federal Government to coordinate
its education activities more effectively.’’
The Department of Education’s mission is to
‘‘promote student achievement and prepara-
tion for global competitiveness by fostering
educational excellence and ensuring equal
access.’’
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 2563.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1 Sec.
8 Cl. 18).
Further, this statement of constitutional
authority is made for the sole purpose of
compliance with clause 7 of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and
shall have no bearing on judicial review of
the accompanying bill.
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 2564.
Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to the fol-
lowing:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 2565.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 2566.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 2567.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII Clause I
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 2568.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 95: Mr. KINZINGER, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
BALDERSON, Ms. SCHRIER, and Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana.
H.R. 96: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 141: Mr. VELA and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 186: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 188: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York.
H.R. 196: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 216: Mr. REED, Mr. COOK, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. ESTES, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 218: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 230: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 273: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 299: Ms. SCHRIER, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. CLOUD, Mr.
TIMMONS, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. STANTON,
and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 303: Mr. MEADOWS and Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER.
H.R. 305: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 307: Mr. BACON, Mr. CASE, and Mr. VAN
DREW.
H.R. 372: Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 375: Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. KILDEE, and Mr.
MULLIN.
H.R. 391: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 397: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, and Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi.
H.R. 401: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 444: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 445: Mr. AGUILAR and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 446: Mr. MAST and Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 510: Mr. PHILLIPS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
WALTZ, Mrs. WAGNER, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 553: Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. HAGEDORN,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. TRONE, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 555: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. NADLER,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms.
BASS, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. STEIL, and
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 563: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 586: Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. ADERHOLT,
Mr. GOODEN, and Mr. BRADY.
H.R. 594: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 647: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, Mrs. WAGNER, and Mr.
GOLDEN.
H.R. 663: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BAIRD, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and Ms. SCAN-
LON.
H.R. 692: Mr. MAST, Mr. HILL of Arkansas,
and Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 712: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 724: Mr. SMUCKER, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 737: Ms. DELBENE, Ms. FINKENAUER,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. SCHIFF,
and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 763: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 788: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 804: Mr. SCHIFF and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 805: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 806: Mr. CASE and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 832: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 848: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 860: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 864: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 884: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 888: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 924: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 929: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
COX of California, Mr. COOK, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 935: Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 965: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. CASE, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, Mr. NORMAN, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 997: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1004: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1007: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1011: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 1012: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1025: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 1027: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1034: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 1035: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 1046: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1049: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Ms.
ESHOO.
H.R. 1055: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1058: Mr. CORREA, Mr. COOPER, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington.
H.R. 1109: Ms. CLARKE of New York and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 1121: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 1135: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 1139: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 1140: Ms. NORTON, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. AGUILAR, and Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1154: Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. OMAR, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. COOK, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1174: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1175: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. STEIL,
and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1179: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TURNER, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. SCANLON,
and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1183: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1185: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 1191: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1201: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1236: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1237: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1240: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1243: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1255: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1289: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi.
H.R. 1328: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. DELGADO,
and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1329: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 1342: Ms. PORTER, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 1343: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 1346: Mr. SOTO.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.015 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3477
May 7, 2019
H.R. 1359: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1368: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1370: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 1373: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
ESHOO, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1374: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. LATTA, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. CLINE, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana,
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
ROGERS of Alabama, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio,
Mr. COMER, Mr. LUCAS, Mr. MEUSER, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska, and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1375: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 1377: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. KILDEE, and Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida.
H.R. 1394: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1399: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1406: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 1441: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 1444: Mr. ABRAHAM and Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama.
H.R. 1446: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1452: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina and
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1454: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1499: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. CARBAJAL, and Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1507: Mr. WELCH and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1530: Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire.
H.R. 1554: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. BURGESS, and
Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1560: Mr. HORSFORD and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 1568: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. CASE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. BEYER, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. DEUTCH, and Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts.
H.R. 1570: Mr. CROW, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SCHRIER, Ms. PORTER, Mr. MAST,
Mr. EMMER, and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1581: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1583: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1592: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1595: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1597: Mr. SOTO, Mr. TURNER, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Ms. PRESSLEY, and Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1603: Mr. GRIJALVA and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1605: Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 1610: Mr. CARTER of Georgia and Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1618: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1641: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. KIND, Mrs.
LURIA, and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 1648: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1674: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1678: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1679: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
HUNTER, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. WALBERG, and Mr.
RUSH.
H.R. 1688: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1704: Mr. MEADOWS and Mr.
SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 1709: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. SOTO, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Ms. NORTON, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK.
H.R. 1728: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 1730: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. WITTMAN, and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1738: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1740: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1748: Ms. PINGREE and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1749: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1750: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1753: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 1754: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. WILD, Mr.
HUNTER, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1765: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1766: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1771: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1776: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1781: Mr. BURCHETT, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. KIM, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1786: Mr. KIM, Mr. HIMES, Mr. PAYNE,
and Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 1814: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
KILMER, and Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1826: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1830: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1837: Ms. GRANGER, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
PHILLIPS, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. DELGADO, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. BUDD, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. WALDEN, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. GOMEZ,
Ms. MENG, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1840: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1854: Mr. WALBERG and Mr. LONG.
H.R. 1862: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio and Mr.
CLOUD.
H.R. 1865: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. FULCHER, and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1869: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. LOUDERMILK, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
WALBERG, Mr. KIM, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. LOEBSACK,
and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1873: Mr. BUCHANAN and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1884: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. HIMES, Ms. POR-
TER, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1896: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Mr. COOK.
H.R. 1897: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. OMAR, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Mr. SERRANO, Mr. VAN DREW, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1900: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. KIND, and
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1903: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 1910: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 1911: Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. POSEY, and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1939: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1941: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1942: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 1943: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 1948: Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. THORN-
BERRY, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. OMAR, Mr. ROGERS
of Kentucky, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. DELAURO,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. PETERS, and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1952: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 1954: Mr. RICE of South Carolina and
Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 1959: Mr. AMASH.
H.R. 1968: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
BERA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. SOTO, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. CASE,
Mr. LYNCH, Mr. POCAN, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, and
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 1970: Mr. THORNBERRY and Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 1976: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1982: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. KHANNA, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1984: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 1994: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Mr. COLE, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. AMODEI, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. KILMER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. KIM, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. SOTO, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. WATKINS,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. PERRY, and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2002: Mr. BACON and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2006: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2013: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2015: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. ADER-
HOLT.
H.R. 2036: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 2039: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2048: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2076: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2081: Mr. GIBBS and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 2089: Mr. BACON, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
GUEST, and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2094: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2096: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2109: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2113: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 2121: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2130: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2135: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2142: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2148: Mr. SABLAN, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 2151: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 2153: Mr. COOK and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2156: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2161: Mr. MITCHELL and Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 2163: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2174: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2177: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2178: Mr. ROUDA, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
EMMER, and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2204: Mr. POSEY, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, and Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 2207: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 2208: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2211: Ms. NORTON, Mr. MCGOVERN, and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 2218: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2219: Mr. MAST, Mr. COLLINS of Geor-
gia, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. CONAWAY, and Ms.
MOORE.
H.R. 2222: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2226: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2231: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr.
HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2235: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
HIMES, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2249: Mr. LANGEVIN and Mr. RICE of
South Carolina.
H.R. 2256: Ms. STEVENS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. AGUILAR,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. DELBENE, and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2275: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2291: Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 2293: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2300: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2311: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. KIND, and Mr.
WALDEN.
H.R. 2314: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 2315: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. HASTINGS, and
Mr. SIRES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.019 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3478 May 7, 2019
H.R. 2316: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2327: Ms. BONAMICI and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2336: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2340: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2353: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2354: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H.R. 2355: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 2365: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2375: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2376: Mr. NEGUSE and Mr. ROSE of New
York.
H.R. 2377: Ms. MATSUI, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. ROUDA, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 2379: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. COOK, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. HILL of California,
and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 2382: Mr. VELA, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. NORTON, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mrs. CRAIG, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2388: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. YOHO, and
Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 2400: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2411: Mr. MCGOVERN and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 2417: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2428: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2429: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2430: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2438: Ms. NORTON, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire.
H.R. 2440: Mr. GIBBS, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN
of Puerto Rico, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2470: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2471: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2474: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MOORE, and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2480: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. WALBERG, Mr. BANKS, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. MORELLE, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. OMAR,
Mr. TRONE, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. WILD, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. THOMPSON of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
WRIGHT, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 2482: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. VAN
DREW, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. ROUDA, and Mr.
MEADOWS.
H.R. 2493: Mr. YOHO and Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2494: Mr. COOK and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2502: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2504: Mr. HUNTER, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs.
BEATTY, and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2509: Mr. WELCH and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 2517: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.J. Res. 48: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H. Con. Res. 12: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey.
H. Con. Res. 32: Ms. OMAR and Mr. SHER-
MAN.
H. Res. 33: Mr. GOLDEN and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H. Res. 54: Mr. PETERS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H. Res. 60: Ms. WEXTON, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, and
Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H. Res. 96: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H. Res. 114: Mr. DUNCAN.
H. Res. 138: Mrs. LOWEY and Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 152: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H. Res. 174: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 179: Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H. Res. 189: Mrs. MURPHY and Mr. CLAY.
H. Res. 231: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H. Res. 246: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. SCALISE,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, and Mr. KINZINGER.
H. Res. 250: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. CARBAJAL,
and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 255: Mr. BIGGS, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H. Res. 273: Mr. BACON, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. BURGESS, and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 277: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 285: Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr. COLE.
H. Res. 292: Mr. BARR.
H. Res. 296: Mrs. LURIA and Mr.
MOOLENAAR.
H. Res. 300: Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 310: Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 325: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Ms. FUDGE, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. MOULTON, and Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H. Res. 326: Ms. SPEIER, Ms. WATERS, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. HILL of California, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TONKO, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr.
DEFAZIO.
H. Res. 330: Ms. TLAIB.
H. Res. 335: Mrs. MURPHY and Ms. CLARKE
of New York.
H. Res. 337: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 338: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. BUCK, Mr. BRADY, and
Mr. KILMER.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. YARMUTH
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on the Budget in H.R. 2157 do
not contain any congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits as defined in clause 9 or rule XXI.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H. Res. 346: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
18. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
the House of Representatives of the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, relative to Con-
current Resolution 95, requesting the Con-
gress of the United States of America to pass
legislation that provides for equal treatment
for the United States citizens residing in
Puerto Rico regarding the right to receive
Supplemental Security Income (SSI); which
was referred to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY7.024 H07MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2657
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 2019 No. 75
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, our hope for years to
come, show us how to live victoriously
each day. Lead us to a place of under-
standing in spite of challenges and dif-
ficulties. Lord, make us more than con-
querors because of Your power and
love. Today, inspire our lawmakers to
strive to do Your will. As they perform
their daily tasks, guide them in the se-
lection of their priorities. Lord, show
them Your truth so they will be instru-
ments of Your purposes. When their
light of hope is threatened, renew them
with faith in Your providence and
mercy.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
it has now been more than 6 weeks
since Special Counsel Bob Mueller, the
former FBI Director, concluded his in-
vestigation into Russia’s interference
in our 2016 election and delivered his
findings to the Justice Department. It
has been 2 weeks since Attorney Gen-
eral William Barr made the 450-page re-
port public. This investigation went on
for 2 years. It is finally over.
Many Americans were waiting to see
how their elected officials would re-
spond. With an exhaustive investiga-
tion complete, would the country fi-
nally unify to confront the real chal-
lenges before us? Would we finally be
able to move on from partisan paral-
ysis and breathless conspiracy theo-
rizing or would we remain consumed by
unhinged partisanship and keep divid-
ing ourselves to the point that Putin
and his agents would need only to
stand on the sidelines and watch us as
their job would actually be done for
them? Regrettably, the answer is pret-
ty obvious.
So that is what I want to discuss this
morning—Russia’s interference in
American elections, the special coun-
sel’s and the Attorney General’s work,
and how we can finally end this
‘‘Groundhog Day’’ spectacle, stop end-
lessly relitigating a 21⁄2-year-old elec-
tion result, and move forward for the
American people.
Now, it bears remembering what this
investigation was actually supposed to
be about—Russian interference in 2016.
For many of the President’s opponents,
it quickly morphed into something
else—a last hope that maybe they
would never have to come to terms
with the American people’s choice of a
President. In some corners, Special
Counsel Mueller came to be regarded as
a kind of secular saint who was des-
tined to rescue the country from the
inconvenient truth that the American
people actually elected Donald Trump.
For 2 years, many of the President’s
opponents seemed to be hoping the
worst conspiracy theories would actu-
ally be true. They seemed to be hoping
for a national crisis for the sake of
their own politics.
Look, I will say it was at least heart-
ening to see many of my Democratic
colleagues and the media abruptly
awaken to the dangers of Russian ag-
gression. Remember, not long ago, the
Democrats mocked Republicans like
John McCain and MITT ROMNEY for
warning about the dangers posed by
Putin’s Russia.
Remember President Obama’s quip
back in 2012, when then-Governor Rom-
ney emphasized his concerns with Rus-
sia? Here is what President Obama said
when MITT ROMNEY emphasized his
concerns about Russia back in 2012:
‘‘The 1980s are now calling to ask for
their foreign policy back.’’ That was
President Obama in 2012. Well, I think
many of us now see that President
Obama’s approach to Russia could have
used some more of the 1980s—more
Ronald Reagan and less Jimmy Carter.
We would have been better off if the
Obama administration had not swept
Putin’s invasion and occupation of
Georgia under the rug or had not
looked away as Russia forced out West-
ern NGOs and cracked down on civil so-
ciety; if President Obama had not let
Assad trample his redline on Syria or
had not embraced Putin’s fake deal on
chemical weapons; if the Obama ad-
ministration had responded firmly to
Putin’s invasion and occupation of
Ukraine in 2014, to the assassination of
Boris Nemtsov in 2015, and to Russia’s
intervention in Syria. Maybe stronger
leadership would have left the Kremlin
less emboldened. Maybe tampering
with our democracy wouldn’t have
seemed so very tempting.
Instead, the previous administration
sent the Kremlin the signal it could get
away with almost anything. So is it
surprising that we got the brazen inter-
ference detailed in Special Counsel
Mueller’s report or a concerted effort
to divide Americans through social
media campaigns or the hacking into
the email accounts and networks of the
Clinton campaign and the Democratic
Party?
Thanks to the investigation, we
know more about these tactics. Thanks
to the investigation, 13 Russian nation-
als, 3 Russian companies, and 12 more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:21 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.000 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2658 May 7, 2019
Russian intelligence officers have been
indicted. These are the people who
really did seek to undermine our de-
mocracy. Yet, curiously, many of our
Democratic colleagues and most of the
news media don’t seem to care about
that. New insight into defending Amer-
ica? Russian nationals being indicted?
These don’t seem to interest my col-
leagues across the aisle—no interest—
just like there has been little interest
in the steps this administration has
taken to make Russia pay for its inter-
ference and strengthen America’s hand.
Election interference was just one
part of Russia’s strategy to undercut
the United States, and this administra-
tion has taken the problem head-on.
We have a new, coherent national secu-
rity strategy and national defense
strategy that actually take the threat
seriously.
We have new sanctions. We have pro-
vided Georgia and Ukraine with weap-
ons to better defend themselves—capa-
bilities the previous administration de-
nied our partners—now listen to this—
out of fear of provoking Russia. We
have worked against pipeline projects
like Nord Stream 2 that would further
expand Putin’s influence. We have
strengthened and reformed NATO so
the alliance can present a united front.
We proved Russia’s noncompliance
with the INF and walked away from a
treaty that Moscow had turned into a
sham. Over Russian objections, the
Trump administration has also twice
enforced President Obama’s redline in
Syria after Assad’s use of chemical
weapons.
With respect to election security,
Congress appropriated hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars to State governments
to shore up their systems. The admin-
istration increased information sharing
from the Department of Homeland Se-
curity in cooperation with the States.
According to press reports, the Depart-
ment of Defense has expanded its capa-
bilities and authorities to thwart cyber
threats to our democracy. No longer
will we just hope Moscow respects our
sovereignty—we will now defend it.
These are just a few examples, and
there is already evidence they are hav-
ing an effect.
We just had the 2018 midterm elec-
tions. Thanks to this administration’s
leadership, all 50 States and more than
1,400 local election jurisdictions fo-
cused on election security like never
before. The DHS provided resources to
localities for better cybersecurity, and
private social media companies mon-
itored their own platforms for foreign
interference. Thanks to efforts across
the Federal Government in 2018, we
were ready. Clearly, that is progress.
The Mueller report will help us as will
the upcoming report from the Select
Committee on Intelligence. These
threats and challenges are real. Our re-
sponsibility to strengthen America is
serious, and it requires serious work.
Speaking of serious, seriousness is
not what we have seen from the Demo-
cratic Party in recent days. What we
have seen is a meltdown—an absolute
meltdown. We have seen an inability to
accept the bottom-line conclusion on
Russian interference from the special
counsel’s report, which read that the
investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign con-
spired or coordinated with the Russian
Government in its election inter-
ference activities. That was the conclu-
sion—2 years of exhaustive investiga-
tion and nothing to establish the fan-
ciful conspiracy theory that the Demo-
cratic politicians and TV talking heads
had treated like a forgone conclusion.
They told everyone there had been a
conspiracy between Russia and the
Trump campaign. Yet, on this central
question, the special counsel’s finding
is clear—case closed.
This ought to be good news for every-
one, but my Democratic colleagues
seem to be publicly working through
the five stages of grief. The first stage
is denial. Remember what happened
when the Attorney General released his
preliminary letter that described the
special counsel’s bottom-line legal con-
clusion? Denial. Immediately, there
was totally baseless speculation that
perhaps Attorney General Barr had not
quoted the report properly.
Then comes stage No. 2—anger. Wel-
come to Washington in recent days.
The Democrats are angry—angry that
the facts have disappointed them,
angry that our legal system will not
magically undo the 2016 election for
them. They have opted to channel all
of their partisan anger onto the Attor-
ney General. They seem to be angrier
at Bill Barr for doing his job than they
are at Vladimir Putin. This is a distin-
guished public servant whose career
stretches back almost 50 years. He is
widely respected. Nobody claims he has
any prior personal allegiance to this
particular President.
Why are they angry? Why are they
angry? Did the Attorney General fire
the special counsel or force him to
wind down prematurely? No. Did he sit
on the Mueller report and keep it se-
cret? No. He quickly reported out his
bottom-line legal conclusions and then
released as much as possible for the
world to see. Did he use redactions?
Did he use redactions to mislead the
public? No. Working with the special
counsel’s team, he released as much as
possible within standard—standard—
safeguards. So it is hard to see the
source of the anger.
Maybe our Democratic colleagues are
thinking of some strange new kind of
‘‘coverup’’ where you take the entire
thing you are supposedly covering up
and post it on the internet. The claims
get more and more utterly absurd.
There are baseless accusations of per-
jury and laughable threats of impeach-
ment.
We all know what is going on here.
This is the whole angry barrage that
Democrats had prepared to unleash on
President Trump—except the facts let
them down. The facts let them down.
So the left has swung all these cannons
around and fired them at the Attorney
General. It is not for any legitimate
reason but just because he is a conven-
ient target.
There is this ‘‘outrage industrial
complex’’ that spans from Capitol press
conferences to cable news. They are
grieving—grieving—that the national
crisis they spent 2 years wishing for did
not materialize. But for the rest of the
country, this is good news. It is bad
news for the ‘‘outrage industrial com-
plex’’ but good news for the country.
So now they are slandering a distin-
guished public servant because the real
world has disappointed them.
Instead of taking a deep breath and
coming back to reality, our colleagues
across the aisle want to shoot the mes-
senger and keep the perpetual outrage
machine right on going, even under-
mining the institution of the Attorney
General itself in the process.
Remember, Russia set out to sow dis-
cord, to create chaos in American poli-
tics, and to undermine confidence in
our democracy. But on that front,
given the left’s total fixation on
delegitimizing the President Ameri-
cans chose and shooting any messenger
who tells them inconvenient truths, I
am afraid the Russians hardly need to
lift a finger—hardly need to lift a fin-
ger.
The last stage of grievance is accept-
ance. For the country’s sake, I hope
my Democratic friends get there some-
time soon. There are serious issues the
American people need us to tackle.
There is more progress for middle-class
families we need to deliver.
For 2 years, the Democratic Party
held out hope that the legal system
would undo their loss in 2016. They re-
fused to make peace with the American
people’s choice. But the American peo-
ple elected this President. They did.
The American people voted for change.
The American people sent us here to
deliver results for their families. That
is what Republicans have been doing
for the past 2 years and counting. That
is what Republicans will continue to
do. Whenever our Democratic friends
can regain their composure and come
back to reality, we look forward to
their help.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 1332 AND H.R. 9
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there are two bills at the
desk due for a second reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
The clerk will read the titles of the
bills for the second time en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1332) to set forth the congres-
sional budget for the United States Govern-
ment for fiscal year 2020 and setting forth
the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal
years 2021 through 2029.
A bill (H.R. 9) to direct the President to de-
velop a plan for the United States to meet
its nationally determined contribution under
the Paris Agreement, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.002 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2659
May 7, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
have just listened to my friend the ma-
jority leader engage in an astounding
bit of whitewash—not unexpected but
entirely unconvincing.
Yes, the Mueller investigation took 2
years, and, yes, it produced a stunning
document in the end—not only a damn-
ing appraisal of our election security
and just how willing a major Presi-
dential campaign was to accept and
amplify the disinformation of a foreign
adversary but also a thorough exam-
ination of the behavior of a lawless
President, who at least on 11 occasions,
according to the report, may have ob-
structed a Federal investigation.
So while my friend the majority lead-
er wants to say ‘‘case closed’’—I don’t
blame them—375 former Federal pros-
ecutors looked at the Mueller report
and said publicly that the conduct of
the President amounts to felony ob-
struction of justice. In any other case,
were he not President, those prosecu-
tors would have recommended bringing
charges.
Our leader saying ‘‘Let’s move on’’ is
sort of like Richard Nixon saying
‘‘Let’s move on’’ at the height of the
investigation of his wrongdoing. Of
course he wants to move on. He wants
to cover it up. He wants silence on one
of the most serious issues we face—
whether a foreign power can manipu-
late our elections, the wellspring of our
democracy.
If the leader is sincere, then put elec-
tion security on the floor. Let’s debate
it. Put sanctions on Russia on the
floor. Let’s debate it. He doesn’t want
to move on; he wants to run away from
these awful facts that relate to the
wellspring of our democracy—foreign
interference in our election and a
President who is lawless. That is what
he wants to push under the rug.
Of course, he would say this is all
done. It is not done. If Russia inter-
feres in 2020, it is not done. If this
President or future Presidents believe
that they can avoid the law and even
break the law—at least according to
375 prosecutors—it is not done. This is
very serious stuff.
The leader bemoans ‘‘breathless con-
spiracy theorizing.’’ For a moment, I
thought he was referring to the Presi-
dent and to those House and Senate
Republicans who for 2 years inten-
tionally sought to undercut Mueller’s
investigation by peddling farfetched
conspiracy theories about deep state
‘‘coups,’’ unmasking scandals, and ura-
nium purchases to muddy the waters. I
guess he meant something about
Democrats. But I don’t remember the
Republican leader bemoaning those
breathless conspiracies; nor do I re-
member the Republican leader or the
Republican Senators having such a dis-
taste for congressional oversight dur-
ing the Obama administration. On
things far less serious, they were re-
lentless in wanting investigations. Now
they say ‘‘never mind’’ when the
wellspring of our democracy is at
stake, there is foreign interference in
our elections, and a President who just
disobeys the law. The leader sure acted
differently a few years back.
What I remember is that from the
very beginning, the Republican leader
has not taken the threat of Russia’s
election interference as seriously as he
should. In the run-up to the 2016 elec-
tion, when the Obama administration
sought to warn State election officials
about foreign meddling and designate
election systems as ‘‘critical infra-
structure,’’ Leader MCCONNELL report-
edly delayed for weeks, ‘‘watered
down’’ the letter from congressional
leaders, and pushed back against the
designation. Yes, I would have swept
this under the rug if I had done that. I
wouldn’t want to keep talking about it.
Despite 2 years in charge of the Sen-
ate since the 2016 election, Leader
MCCONNELL has pursued additional
election security only after being prod-
ded by Democrats, and it has been half-
baked at that.
Leader MCCONNELL thwarted the
Rules Committee from marking up the
bipartisan legislation designed to en-
hance election security.
At the beginning of the year, 42 Re-
publicans, including Leader MCCON-
NELL, essentially voted in favor of the
administration’s proposal to weaken
sanctions against Russia.
In the last round of negotiations,
Senate Republicans blocked our at-
tempt to fund additional efforts to
make our election safe in 2020.
Now, despite a preponderance of tes-
timony from our intelligence offi-
cials—not politicians; intelligence offi-
cials who are in charge of our security
and well-being—they testified that for-
eign powers are ramping up to interfere
in our next election. The Senate has
done nothing to grapple with the prob-
lem, even as minimal of a request as I
made to the leader: an all-Senators’
classified briefing from our defense and
intelligence leaders so that the Senate
understands what we need to do to pro-
tect American in 2020 and beyond. I
have been asking for 2 weeks, and we
still haven’t gotten action.
Let’s bring the bipartisan Secure
Elections Act to the floor and debate
and amend. Let’s strengthen sanctions
against Putin and any other adversary
who would dare to interfere with the
sanctity of our elections.
Regardless of what you believe about
the President’s conduct, we should
all—every single Democrat and every
single Republican—be working to en-
sure that what happened in 2016 never
happens again. We can debate how
much of an effect it had, but we sure
don’t want it to be worse—whatever it
was—in 2020 than it was in 2016. And
the leader sits on his hands, does noth-
ing, creates a legislative graveyard for
these and every other issue, and then
says: Let’s move on. No way. No way.
We can do both. We can make our elec-
tions more secure. We can examine
what happened so we can make them
more secure and do other issues. So far,
Leader MCCONNELL is doing neither.
What we have here is very simple.
What we have here is a concerted effort
to circle the wagons to protect the
President from accountability, to
whitewash his reprehensible conduct
by simply declaring it irrelevant. In
that effort, the leader and Senate Re-
publicans are falling down drastically
on their constitutional duty to provide
oversight and, I fear, to defend the na-
tional interest as well.
f
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, let
me now talk about something related—
the legislative graveyard.
Leader MCCONNELL says: Let’s move
on and work together. There hasn’t
been a single bill put on the floor on
issues we can debate, whether it is pro-
tecting preexisting conditions, making
our education system better, dealing
with the problem of the high cost of
drugs, doing infrastructure—nothing.
Just appointments have been put on
the floor. And nothing has been done
on election security at the very min-
imum.
I know the leader is afraid to debate
what happened and explore what hap-
pened given the tawdry history of cer-
tainly President Trump and of Senate
Republicans in responding to this seri-
ous issue, but at least he could move
forward and we could put some bills on
the floor and debate them to strength-
en our election security, which every-
one admits is weak.
So if Leader MCCONNELL, as he says,
is ready to move on to serious things,
then how about bringing forward legis-
lation to protect our elections? For 4
months, the Senate has been little
more than a legislative graveyard, and
election security is exhibit A.
The House passed important reforms
to improve and safeguard our elections.
No action here in the Senate. We have
a bipartisan election security bill wait-
ing in committee. No movement from
the leader.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.003 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2660 May 7, 2019
As long as this place remains a legis-
lative graveyard, we are rolling out the
welcome mat for foreign adversaries—
not just Russia but Iran, Turkey,
North Korea, China—to interfere in our
elections. We are essentially encour-
aging a sequel to 2016 because the lead-
er is sitting on his hands, because the
leader is presiding over a legislative
graveyard on election security and just
about everything else. What about bi-
partisan background checks? What
about paycheck fairness? What about
election reform? What about even the
Violence Against Women Act, which
passed the House with 33 Republicans?
None of those are being put on the
floor so that we can act and debate.
Later this morning, my friend Sen-
ator UDALL will come here to the floor
to press our Republican friends to take
up this bill and shed light on the fact
that it includes long-overdue reforms
to protect Native American women.
The House is moving on legislation this
week to protect our healthcare law and
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions from the adminis-
tration’s efforts to destroy those pro-
tections. There is no reason for Leader
MCCONNELL, who says he wants to
move on, to let these bills collect dust
in the Senate. Even if he doesn’t love
every particular in these bills, why not
bring them to the floor to debate and
amend? Surely, we could find a way to
agree on issues. Ninety, ninety-five
percent of Americans agree on every
one of these. But the Republican Party
and Leader MCCONNELL are so in the
grasp of powerful special interests and
lobbyists from the hard right that they
are afraid to move any of this.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on
disaster, last week, the city of Dav-
enport in Iowa became the site of the
latest national disaster to wreak havoc
on our homeland. It has been 8 weeks
since the Midwest began battling major
flooding, 6 months since the last major
wildfire in California, 12 months since
a volcano erupted in Hawaii, and over a
year and a half since Hurricanes Irma
and Maria devastated the island of
Puerto Rico. But because the President
has stubbornly and inexplicably op-
posed aid to Puerto Rico, a comprehen-
sive disaster package has failed to get
the necessary support of my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle, of a ma-
jority in the House, and has languished
in the Congress.
Unfortunately, the President con-
tinues to belittle Puerto Rico and tell
flat-out mistruths about the level of
support they are receiving. Just yester-
day, the President said the people of
Puerto Rico ‘‘should be very happy’’
with what he has done for them so far.
Well, don’t ask me. Ask the Governor
of Puerto Rico—hardly a left-wing, par-
tisan Democrat; ask the mayor of San
Juan; ask the people of Puerto Rico if
they are happy. Don’t put words in
their mouths. Ask them if they are
happy with the support they have re-
ceived from this administration. Ask
them if they are happy with HUD’s
missing its own deadline to advance
the release of $8 billion in disaster
mitigation funding last week. Ask
them, and you will get a much dif-
ferent answer. No one in the Puerto
Rican community is happy with the
way this President has treated the is-
land and its 3 million American citi-
zens. He has treated them with con-
tempt. It needs to stop.
So, President Trump, if you want to
help the farmers in the Midwest, be fair
to everyone. You can’t pick and
choose.
Some of them say: Oh, but Puerto
Rico isn’t spending its aid well. I heard
that when we wanted Sandy money for
New York. You can say that about any
region. In an emergency, no govern-
ment program will be perfect, but that
is not a reason to hold back the money.
Instead, send the money and have some
oversight, but help the people. They
need it. You can’t pick and choose
which Americans to help.
I would say this to President Trump:
As our President, you must represent
all Americans, not just the ones who
voted for you.
I yield the floor.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Joseph F.
Bianco, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
Mr. LEE. Madam President, many
Americans might be surprised,
shocked, and troubled to learn that
some of their tax dollars are going di-
rectly to Chinese companies and that
some of those dollars even go to cor-
porations owned by the Chinese Gov-
ernment, like Chinese banks, Chinese
development agencies, and Chinese
microprocessor factories. In recent
years, in fact, China received $50 mil-
lion in loans and guarantees, all
backed by American citizens.
Taxpayers would be right to be puz-
zled and concerned about why their
hard-earned money is subsidizing Chi-
nese state-owned companies. To be
clear, we are not talking about vol-
untary investment from American
businesses; we are taking about the
backing of the U.S. Government. They
might ask: How is this the case? Why
on Earth would we do this? Why is this
happening? The answer has to do with
the very institution to which we are
going to be trying to confirm nominees
today.
The Export-Import Bank—or Ex-Im,
as it is often described—was created
during the height of the Great Depres-
sion to help U.S. exporters when they
were desperate for customers and for-
eign markets lacked the capital to fi-
nance trade. It was conceived particu-
larly to help small businesses to be
able to compete, as many of its current
proponents still claim, still insist, to
this very day.
But for decades, the institution that
is the Export-Import Bank has unfortu-
nately been used as a giant tool for
corporate welfare. Ex-Im has operated
to benefit the wealthiest and the most
politically connected businesses in
America, as well as their overseas cli-
ents and, believe it or not, foreign gov-
ernments. Take Boeing, for instance.
Look, it is no coincidence that Ex-Im
has been nicknamed ‘‘Boeing’s bank.’’
When Ex-Im financing was at its peak,
Boeing received 70 percent of all Ex-
port-Import Bank loan guarantees and
40 percent of all Ex-Im dollars.
Which other large corporations have
benefited? Well, they include General
Electric, John Deere, Caterpillar, and
other industrial giants—hardly busi-
nesses that are unable to get financing
elsewhere; hardly businesses that fit
within the category of what the biggest
proponents of Ex-Im claim need Ex-Im
to exist in the first place.
In fact, while Ex-Im claims that 90
percent of the businesses to which it
provides support are ‘‘small busi-
nesses,’’ when you dive into those num-
bers, the numbers tell a somewhat dif-
ferent story. They show that small
businesses received only about 25 per-
cent of Ex-Im dollars. That doesn’t
even touch the fact that in 2014 Cater-
pillar and Boeing were the first and
fourth largest recipients of so-called
small business funds from Ex-Im. So if
Boeing and Caterpillar—great U.S.
companies that employ tens of thou-
sands of hard-working Americans and
make good products used by people all
over the world—if they can be consid-
ered small businesses, it makes you
question the vernacular used by Ex-
port-Import Bank proponents.
Looking at the Bank’s track record
as a whole, only one-half of 1 percent of
all small businesses in America actu-
ally benefit from Export-Import fi-
nancing—a very small tip of a very
large iceberg; a very small portion of
all business enterprises in the United
States. It makes one question, why,
then, do we have one entity that is set
up to provide such a large benefit to so
few businesses?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2661
May 7, 2019
It is a similar story on the foreign
side. Abroad, Ex-Im has largely bene-
fited big companies that already col-
lect massive subsidies as state-con-
trolled entities and entities that can
easily get private financing elsewhere.
The No. 1 buyer of exports subsidized
by Ex-Im between 2007 and 2013 was
Pemex. For those not familiar with
Pemex, it is the notoriously corrupt
petroleum company owned by the
Mexican Government. Pemex, which
has a market cap of $416 billion, re-
ceived more than $7 billion in loans
backed by U.S. taxpayers. Why?
During the same period, Ex-Im
backed $3.4 billion in financing to
Emirates Airlines—a company wholly
owned by the Government of Dubai—
for Emirates’ purchase of Boeing
planes.
Indeed, a large share of Ex-Im financ-
ing has historically gone to foreign air-
lines and to foreign energy compa-
nies—businesses that are, in fact, com-
peting with American companies.
Now, not that there is anything
wrong with competition. It is great.
Competition ought to exist. Competi-
tion improves quality, and it brings
down prices. But why is it that we, as
the U.S. Government, are in many in-
stances financing the competitors of
U.S. businesses—competitors that in
many instances are owned by foreign
governments? Moreover, we have been
sending money to countries that in
many cases have what we would de-
scribe as dubious records on human
rights and high levels of corruption.
In the last 5 years, Saudi Arabia and
Mexico were the top foreign recipients
of Export-Import Bank aid, and in the
past, when Ex-Im had the authority to
grant larger subsidies, the top foreign
recipient was typically China. In 2014,
China received $2.2 billion in U.S. tax-
payer-backed loans and guarantees
with most of it going to businesses
owned by the Chinese Government. If it
weren’t so sad, this would be funny. If
it weren’t so strange, it would be inter-
esting. To top it all off, Ex-Im has had
poor accounting and has had rather
significant problems with trans-
parency.
In 2013, Ex-Im was either unable or
unwilling to provide any justification
whatsoever for half of the financing
deals in its portfolio. Here again, this
is stunning. I find it troubling that we
are seriously considering these nomi-
nees without first addressing why we
have the Export-Import Bank in the
first place and why there haven’t been
more reforms required before we con-
firm additional nominees to its gov-
erning body. There have already been
30 corruption and fraud investigations
into Ex-Im’s activity.
Now, thankfully, Congress put a
check on some of Export-Import
Bank’s power back in 2015 when we al-
lowed the Board’s quorum to expire,
and thus, we capped its ability to make
deals larger than $10 million.
In the past few years, 66 percent of
Ex-Im’s loans have actually gone to
small businesses instead of the Boeings
and Caterpillars, compared to the 25
percent that went to them before. It
turns out that the big businesses have
been doing just fine, even since those
limitations kicked in a few years ago.
In fact, some of them—many of them—
are doing even better than before. Last
year was Boeing’s best year yet, with
exports making a particularly strong
showing. As Boeing itself admitted, it
had ‘‘robust’’ private sector financing.
According to reports in 2017, there were
unprecedented levels of competition
among lenders and insurers to finance
aircraft exports.
It turns out that when the govern-
ment leaves a profitable line of busi-
ness, private business enterprises do in
fact compete in the marketplace to
take its place, and, as it turns out, pri-
vate businesses make better business
decisions than governments. That is
the lesson we need to take from this.
The sky did not fall when these limita-
tions kicked in a few years ago, and
they would not fall if we continued ad-
ditional reforms, or even, I would dare
say, if we phased out the Export-Im-
port Bank altogether.
Furthermore, with the decrease in
Ex-Im’s subsidies, U.S. exports have ac-
tually risen slightly. Between 2014 and
2018, exports rose from $1.7 trillion to
$1.8 trillion.
Yet today the swamp strikes back.
The prospect of confirming three nomi-
nees to the Ex-Im Bank, thanks to the
nuking of the Senate rules a few weeks
back, suggests Boeing’s bank will in
fact rise from the grave to resume its
long history of fraud, corruption, abu-
sive power, and government manipula-
tion of the marketplace.
We do not need to further empower
the rich and politically connected com-
panies that are already flourishing.
That only undermines trust in our gov-
ernment, which is supposed to protect
taxpayers from corruption and from
waste, and it unilaterally prevents us
from having a more thriving, more
competitive economy—one that would
actually produce more jobs in America
and one that would actually produce
things in such a way that would benefit
more consumers in America. We do not
need to use this outdated, broken, cor-
rupt Bank as a tool for countering for-
eign interests. We certainly don’t need
it as a tool for subsidizing foreign in-
terests. The way to confront China’s
and other countries’ expansionism is
certainly not to subsidize their state-
owned companies.
No, we don’t need Boeing’s bank, and
neither do we need Beijing’s bank. Cro-
nyism and policy privilege threaten ex-
actly, precisely the principles upon
which our Nation was founded and the
principles that have fostered the devel-
opment of the greatest civilization and
of the strongest economy the world has
ever known. They subvert the rule of
law by codifying inequality and rob or-
dinary Americans—the moms and pops
and small business owners—from hav-
ing a level playing field in what is sup-
posed to be the land of opportunity.
People’s access to opportunity
shouldn’t depend on their access to
government. It shouldn’t depend on
their ability to employ an army of lob-
byists and government consultants.
No, it should depend on their ability to
innovate.
We are great as a country and we are
strong as an economy not because of
who we are but because of what we do.
We have succeeded precisely because
we have chosen free markets over cen-
tral planning. We have chosen the
rights of the individual in a free, open,
robust marketplace rather than having
business decisions made by a govern-
ment bureaucrat in Washington, DC.
The fact that this might have made
sense to those sitting in this Chamber
and the House of Representatives some
eight or nine decades ago doesn’t mean
that it has to make sense now. It
doesn’t mean that we are stuck perpet-
ually in this same path. It certainly
shouldn’t mean that the American peo-
ple should be required to work days,
weeks, and months out of every year to
fund the Federal Government that in-
cludes this program, the Export-Import
Bank, which ends up giving a whole lot
of that money to big businesses in
America and to state-owned businesses
abroad to participate in what is sup-
posed to be a free-market economy
and, thereby, dilutes the power of that
economy.
If we are to move toward restoring
fairness to our economy and our gov-
ernment, it would be in our best inter-
est to get rid of this cronyist Bank al-
together. At the very least, we ought
not to empower it to its full capacity
for abuse by confirming these nominees
today. I will vote against them.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The majority whip is
recognized.
TRIBUTE TO MIKE ENZI
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, before I
begin, I want to take a moment to say
how sorry I am that the Senate will be
losing Senator MIKE ENZI at the end of
next year.
During his 20-plus years in the Sen-
ate, MIKE has been a leader on so many
issues, including healthcare and the
budget. As the chairman of the Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee, he oversaw major pension re-
form. As the chairman of the Budget
Committee, he was an indispensable
part of the effort to comprehensibly re-
form our Nation’s outdated Tax Code
and put more money in the American
people’s pockets. As always, he has
been a powerful voice for small busi-
nesses during that process, not to men-
tion a powerful voice for the West
throughout his entire career.
The Senate will be a lesser place
without MIKE ENZI, but he has earned
some more time with his wife Diana,
their three children, and his four
grandchildren.
I am grateful to have served with
MIKE and grateful that Senators will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:44 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.006 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2662 May 7, 2019
have a little time before his well-de-
served retirement to continue to draw
on his wisdom and expertise over the
course of the next year and a half.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. President, good news about the
economy keeps pouring in. On Friday
we learned that the economy created
an impressive 263,000 new jobs in April.
Meanwhile, the unemployment rate
dropped to its lowest level in half a
century. The last time unemployment
was this low was 1969.
Wages are growing at the fastest pace
in a decade. April marked the ninth
straight month that wage growth was
at or above 3 percent. Economic growth
for the first quarter of 2019 was a ro-
bust 3.2 percent, which completely
smashed expectations. Personal income
is up, business investment is up, and
the list goes on.
Importantly, the benefits of this eco-
nomic growth are being spread far and
wide. In fact, blue-collar workers are
seeing some of the biggest benefits.
The Wall Street Journal noted on Fri-
day: ‘‘Believe it or not—and liberals
won’t want to admit it—the evidence is
that the faster economic growth of the
last two years is reducing income in-
equality.’’
Where did all of this growth come
from?
Well, a little over 2 years ago, at the
end of the Obama administration, the
outlook wasn’t too rosy. American
families were struggling. The economy
was sputtering. The historically slow
recovery had left experts predicting
that weak economic growth would be
the new normal. Republicans, however,
did not think that we needed to resign
ourselves to a future of weak growth.
We knew that American workers and
American businesses were as dynamic
and creative as ever. We also knew that
burdensome regulations and an out-
dated tax code were holding our econ-
omy back and reducing the opportuni-
ties available to workers.
So when we took office in 2017, we
got right to work on improving our
economy in order to improve life for
the American people. We knew that our
economy needed to thrive if American
families were going to thrive. We were
determined to give Americans access
to the jobs, opportunities, and wages
that they needed for a secure future.
So we eliminated burdensome regula-
tions that were acting as a drag on eco-
nomic growth. We passed historic re-
form of our Tax Code to put more
money in Americans’ pockets and
make it easier for businesses to grow
and to create jobs.
Now we are seeing the results: strong
job creation, low unemployment, ro-
bust economic growth, higher wages,
and more. American families are feel-
ing the effects.
Last week, Gallup reported:
At the start of 2019, Americans’ optimism
about their personal finances reached levels
not seen in more than 16 years, as 69% ex-
pected that they would be financially better
off in a year. . . . A majority of Americans,
56%, rate their current financial situation as
‘‘excellent’’ or ‘‘good’’. . . . This overall posi-
tive rating has increased 10 percentage
points since 2015 and is currently the highest
since 2002. Likewise, the 57% of Americans
who now say their overall financial situation
is getting better has risen 10 points since 2016
and is at its highest numerical point since
2002.
That is from Gallup last week.
Republicans had one goal with tax re-
form: Make life better for Americans.
That is exactly what tax reform is
doing. Thanks to tax reform, workers
have more money in their paychecks;
they have better access to good jobs
with good wages and good benefits; and
they have better opportunities for ad-
vancement.
I am proud that Republican policies
are making life better for Americans.
We are not stopping here. Republicans
will continue to make American work-
ers and American families our priority.
We are committed to making sure that
every American has access to a secure,
prosperous, and hopeful future, which
is why I am hopeful that the President
will soon be able to close the ongoing
trade negotiations and create greater
market access for U.S. exports, espe-
cially agricultural exports, which will
correct trade abuses and kick our econ-
omy into an even higher gear.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATIONS
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to speak in
favor of confirming the three nominees
before us for the Board of Directors at
the U.S. Export-Import Bank. All three
of these nominees are well qualified,
with years of experience in relevant
fields, and all three have received sup-
port from Democrats and Republicans.
In fact, all three advanced out of the
Banking Committee earlier this Con-
gress by a voice vote.
We must confirm these nominees to
ensure that the Export-Import Bank is
once again fully operational. It is crit-
ical for jobs and for our economy, not
just in my home State of Washington
but throughout the United States.
I believe in an export economy. I be-
lieve the United States of America
manufactures and makes great prod-
ucts, and we should be shipping them
around the globe to customers in a
growing middle class. To do that, we
have to have a functioning export cred-
it agency that works with the private
sector as a tool to get more of our
products to markets where that kind of
banking and assistance does not exist.
If the United States fails to participate
here, customers receive products from
other countries—other countries that
may not necessarily want that foreign
product over our U.S. product, but
clearly the foreign export credit agen-
cy support by creates an incentive for
them to purchase other products.
Since 2015, the Bank has not been
fully operational due to the lack of a
quorum on the Board of Directors.
I am not going to go into a lot of why
that has happened. I will just say that
if you truly believe in an export econ-
omy, you believe in having a credit
agency, such as the Export-Import
Bank, existing as a fundamental tool.
Basically what it has meant is that,
with a lack of Board of Directors, we
have not been able to approve financ-
ing transactions over $10 million—a
situation that has left nearly $40 bil-
lion in limbo. That is $40 billion worth
of American exports unable to reach
those new markets and new customers.
That is $40 billion worth of exports sup-
porting high-paying American jobs and
economic output held hostage every
day that the Bank is not fully oper-
ational.
According to the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers, since the Ex-Im
Bank lost its quorum in 2015, American
manufacturers have lost billions of dol-
lars of sales, which meant the loss of at
least 80,000 American jobs in manufac-
turing in 2016 and 2017 and a loss of at
least $119 billion in economic output.
Trust me, as I have followed this
issue from U.S. equipment to impacts
to GE and to other companies, I have
seen people lose business simply be-
cause we haven’t had a functioning
credit agency to take the best valued
product—that is, some of the most
high-priced U.S. manufacturing prod-
uct—and help get it to overseas mar-
kets.
At least 95 percent of the world cus-
tomers live outside the United States,
and every day that the Export-Import
Bank is not fully operational, Amer-
ican manufacturers and small busi-
nesses lose opportunities. These oppor-
tunities are lost throughout our coun-
try, from Mack Trucks losing out on
an opportunity to export Pennsyl-
vania-manufactured vehicles to Cam-
eroon, to the aerospace industry in my
State losing out on a commercial sat-
ellite deal in Asia, to impacts on small
businesses in the supply chain.
Losing these opportunities means
losing high-paying American jobs. In
fiscal year 2013, when the Bank was
fully operational, it supported nearly
39,000 jobs in my State of Washington
and over 200,000 in the United States.
In fiscal year 2018, without a quorum,
the Bank only supported 650 jobs in
Washington and only 33,000 nationwide.
That is a decrease of nearly 84 percent.
So we need to take action. Every day
that the Bank is not fully operational,
American businesses lose ground to
their competitors.
I believe American businesses are
some of the best in the world. They
make great products, and they can
compete on any stage with other coun-
tries. But without the Export-Import
Bank, there is simply not a level play-
ing field.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.008 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2663
May 7, 2019
There are more than 100 other export
credit agencies worldwide helping for-
eign companies reach new markets.
Without the Export-Import Bank,
American companies are forced to sit
on the sideline and watch as other
countries fill that void. In fact, China
has done more export financing in the
last 3 years than the Export-Import
Bank has done in its 85-year history.
What does that mean? It means that if
other countries continue to use credit
support financing as a tool to help
products reach markets and the United
States doesn’t, they will have an unfair
advantage.
So it is not only time to confirm
these nominees to ensure the Export-
Import Bank is fully functional, it is
also important to make sure we have a
functioning Export-Import Bank. With
its authorization set to expire in Sep-
tember, we need to reauthorize the Ex-
port-Import Bank so it can continue to
provide new financing that supports
American jobs and American exporters.
For many U.S. companies, the Ex-
port-Import Bank guarantees financing
in emerging markets where private fi-
nancing is very difficult or impossible
to obtain. These tools have been essen-
tial. For example, Spokane-based
SCAFCO makes grain storage bins,
silos, and other agricultural processing
and storage equipment. It sells its
product to more than 80 markets
around the world. We are very proud of
that company and what they have
achieved. Financing from the Export-
Import Bank helped SCAFCO sell a
grain storage system to Cambodia.
Cambodia is normally a very tough
market for U.S. businesses to reach,
but thanks to the Export-Import Bank,
SCAFCO was able to make the sale.
The Senate should not be in the busi-
ness of making it harder for U.S. com-
panies to compete; we should be mak-
ing it easier for them to compete. We
should not be putting American compa-
nies at a disadvantage and costing
American jobs. It is time to recognize
that in order to compete in a 21st-cen-
tury global economy where there is
huge growth and economic opportunity
outside of the United States, we have
to have a very aggressive export strat-
egy.
I hope my colleagues will not only
help us get these nominees finally to
support a functioning Export-Import
Bank, but they will also work very col-
laboratively to make sure the Bank
does not expire again this September.
S. RES. 144
Mr. President, I would like to turn to
another subject. My colleague, Senator
UDALL from New Mexico, was out here
earlier, I believe—or maybe he is com-
ing later this afternoon—to remember
the honoring this past Sunday of the
National Day of Awareness for Missing
and Murdered Native Women and Girls.
This is an important day to recognize
because this has become an epidemic in
the United States.
Last year, the Seattle Indian Health
Board released a report that examined
the number of murdered and missing
Native women in urban areas, where 71
percent of Native Indians and Alaska
Natives reside. These are urban centers
in which they found at least 506 cases
of missing or murdered indigenous
women and girls in 71 cities. One hun-
dred and twenty-eight were missing,
and 280 were murdered.
The report found that Washington
State has one of the highest number of
cases of murdered and missing Native
American women. Two of my State’s
largest cities—Seattle and Tacoma—
are in the top 10 nationwide of cities
with the highest number of cases. Se-
attle ranks No. 1.
We are experiencing this crisis, and it
is time that this report be a wake-up
call to action. We can no longer ignore
these huge numbers. We need to find
answers.
One of the answers is in the legisla-
tion sponsored by my colleague, Sen-
ator MURKOWSKI from Alaska, Savan-
na’s Act, which will improve the re-
sponse of local, State, and Federal-
Tribal enforcement in cases of missing
and murdered Tribal women and girls.
This is so important, and that is why I
have joined Senator MURKOWSKI and
Senator CORTEZ MASTO as a cosponsor
of this legislation and am urging that
the Senate pass it immediately.
Right now, hours and days can be
wasted in responding to this. Savanna’s
Act will streamline the protocols and
process between our Tribes and law en-
forcement agencies, which will mean
swifter action and a more rapid pace.
Why am I bringing this up now? I
know we also have to reauthorize the
Violence Against Women Act, but this
legislation has good bipartisan support
in the Senate. We can pass this legisla-
tion very soon and send it over to the
House of Representatives. That way, it
will be ready to be put into the hands
of our law enforcement, if it passes and
goes to the President’s desk for signa-
ture—a tool that can be used now, not
delayed another 7 or 8 months until we
get the reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act.
I thank my former colleague, Sen-
ator Heitkamp, for trying to push this
legislation at the end of the last con-
gressional session. I hope my col-
leagues will realize that the great bi-
partisan support that existed in the
Senate to move this legislation still
exists. What is different now is a House
of Representatives that is very willing
to take up and pass Savanna’s Act, and
we should do that as soon as possible.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Massachusetts.
MUELLER REPORT
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, a little
while ago, the majority leader stood on
this floor to speak about the investiga-
tion into the 2016 Presidential election.
He triumphantly declared ‘‘case
closed’’—‘‘case closed.’’ Wishing will
not make it so.
I read the Mueller report. I read it
cover to cover, every page. I read late
into the evening on the day it was re-
leased and into the next morning. I
didn’t start reading by expecting to
make a statement about it, but I was
shaken by the evidence that the special
counsel had gathered and by the con-
clusions that he drew.
The majority leader would have us
believe that scrutinizing this evidence
is a matter of Democrats refusing ‘‘to
make peace with the American people’s
choice.’’ He wants to portray this as
just an ‘‘outrage industrial complex’’
because some people don’t like that
President Trump won. Again, wishing
will not make it so.
Sure, there is plenty to be outraged
about in the special counsel’s report,
but no one here is pitching a fit that
Democrats didn’t win the election. No,
what is at stake here is the Constitu-
tion of the United States of America.
Will Congress do its job and fulfill its
constitutional duty to serve as a check
on the President? The answer from the
majority leader and his Republican col-
leagues is no—‘‘case closed.’’ ‘‘Case
closed,’’ they cry.
Instead of reading the words of the
special counsel’s report, they just want
to circle the wagons around this Presi-
dent. Instead of protecting the Con-
stitution, they want to protect the
President. This is a huge difference.
At the core of the Constitution is the
principle that no one is above the law,
not even the President of the United
States. My oath of office is the same as
MITCH MCCONNELL’s. I swore and he
swore to uphold the Constitution of the
United States. Our Constitution is
built on the principle of separation of
powers precisely to prevent a dictator,
an autocrat, from taking control of our
government. This separation of powers
is part of the brilliance of our Con-
stitution, and it has served us well for
centuries.
Yes, I took an oath to uphold the
Constitution of the United States, and
so did everybody in the Senate and the
House, including the majority leader.
Now we must act to fulfill that oath.
There is no ‘‘political inconvenience’’
exception to the U.S. Constitution. If
any other human being in this country
had done what is documented in the
Mueller report, they would be arrested
and put in jail.
The majority leader doesn’t want us
to consider the mountain of evidence
against the President. That is wrong.
He and his colleagues have moved to
protect the President instead of defend-
ing the Constitution. Maybe my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
are confused or maybe they just didn’t
read the report. Well, I did, and there
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.009 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2664 May 7, 2019
were some passages that stuck out to
me.
Since the majority leader has pro-
nounced his judgment here on the Sen-
ate floor, I would like to spend some
time reminding him of exactly what
this report said. Let’s start with this
one. Robert Mueller’s report makes
clear that the President took steps to
impede the Mueller investigation and
that his report, though it does not
charge the President, did not exonerate
him from wrongdoing. According to
Mueller:
On May 17, 2017, the Acting Attorney Gen-
eral for the Russia investigation appointed a
Special Counsel to conduct the investigation
and related matters. The President reacted
to news that a Special Counsel had been ap-
pointed by telling advisors that it was ‘‘the
end of his presidency’’ and demanding that
Sessions resign. Sessions submitted his res-
ignation, but the President ultimately did
not accept it. The President told aides that
the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest
and suggested that the Special Counsel
therefore could not serve. The President’s
advisors told him the asserted conflicts were
meritless and had already been considered by
the Department of Justice. On June 14, 2017,
the media reported that the Special Coun-
sel’s Office was investigating whether the
President had obstructed justice. Press re-
ports called this ‘‘a major turning point’’ in
the investigation: while Comey had told the
President he was not under investigation,
following Comey’s firing, the President now
was under investigation. The President re-
acted to this news with a series of tweets
criticizing the Department of Justice and
the Special Counsel’s investigation. On June
17, 2017, the President called McGahn [who
was White House Counsel] at home and di-
rected him to call the Acting Attorney Gen-
eral and say that the Special Counsel had
conflicts of interest and must be removed.
That ends the quote from the Mueller
report. According to McGahn, the
President was extremely insistent,
calling him repeatedly and not taking
no for an answer. Here is what McGahn
told the special counsel—back to the
Mueller report:
On Saturday, June 17, 2017, the President
called McGahn and told him to have the Spe-
cial Counsel removed. McGahn was at home
and the President was at Camp David. In
interviews with this Office, McGahn recalled
that the President called him at home twice
and on both occasions directed him to call
Rosenstein and say that Mueller had con-
flicts that precluded him from serving as
Special Counsel.
On the first call, McGahn recalled that the
President said something like, ‘‘You gotta do
this. You gotta call Rod.’’ McGahn said he
told the President that he would see what he
could do. McGahn was perturbed by the call
and did not intend to act on the request. He
and other advisors believed the asserted con-
flicts were ‘‘silly’’ and ‘‘not real,’’ and they
had previously communicated that view to
the President. McGahn also had made clear
to the President that the White House Coun-
sel’s Office should not be involved in any ef-
fort to press the issue of conflicts. McGahn
was concerned about having any role in ask-
ing the Acting Attorney General to fire the
Special Counsel because he had grown up in
the Reagan era and wanted to be more like
Judge Robert Bork and not ‘‘Saturday Night
Massacre Bork.’’ McGahn considered the
President’s request to be an inflection point
and he wanted to hit the brakes.
That ends the quote from the Mueller
report.
Starting again from the Mueller re-
port:
When the President called McGahn a sec-
ond time to follow up on the order to call the
Department of Justice, McGahn recalled the
President was more direct, saying something
like, ‘‘Call Rod, tell Rod that Mueller has
conflicts and can’t be the Special Counsel.’’
McGahn recalled the President telling him
‘‘Mueller has to go’’ and ‘‘Call me back when
you do it.’’ McGahn understood the Presi-
dent to be saying that the Special Counsel
had to be removed by Rosenstein. To end the
conversation with the President, McGahn
left the President with the impression that
McGahn would call Rosenstein. McGahn re-
called that he had already said no to the
President’s request, and he was worn down.
So he just wanted to get off the phone.
McGahn recalled feeling trapped because
he did not plan to follow the President’s di-
rective, but he did not know what he would
say next time the President called. McGahn
decided he had to resign. He called his per-
sonal lawyer, and then he called his chief of
staff, Annie Donaldson, to inform her of his
decision. He then drove to the office to pack
his belongings and submit his resignation
letter. Donaldson recalled that McGahn told
her the President had called and demanded
that he contact the Department of Justice
and that the President wanted him to do
something that McGahn did not want to do.
McGahn told Donaldson that the President
had called at least twice and, in one of the
calls, asked, ‘‘have you done it?’’ McGahn
did not tell Donaldson the specifics of the
President’s request because he was con-
sciously trying not to involve her in the in-
vestigation, but Donaldson inferred that the
President’s directive was related to the Rus-
sia investigation. Donaldson prepared to re-
sign along with McGahn.
That evening, McGahn called both Priebus
and Bannon and told them that he intended
to resign. McGahn recalled that, after speak-
ing with his attorney and given the nature of
the President’s request, he decided not to
share details of the President’s request with
other White House staff. Priebus recalled
that McGahn said that the President had
asked him to ‘‘do crazy shit,’’ but he thought
McGahn did not tell him the specifics of the
President’s request because McGahn was try-
ing to protect Priebus from what he did not
need to know.
Priebus and Bannon both urged
McGahn not to quit, and McGahn ulti-
mately returned to work that Monday
and remained in his position. He had
not told the President directly that he
planned to resign, and when they next
saw each other the President did not
ask McGahn whether he had followed
through with calling Rosenstein.
Around the same time, Chris Christie
recalled a telephone call with the
President in which the President asked
what Christie thought about the Presi-
dent firing the Special Counsel.
Christie advised against doing so be-
cause there was no substantive basis
for the President to fire the Special
Counsel, and because the President
would lose support from Republicans in
Congress if he did so.
That is the end of that part of the
Mueller report.
Now, the other President’s aides ulti-
mately refused to carry out his orders
and prepared to resign rather than do
so. The President persisted.
Mueller recounts:
Two days after directing McGahn to have
the Special Counsel removed, the President
made another attempt to affect the course of
the Russia investigation. On June 19, 2017,
the President met one-on-one in the Oval Of-
fice with his former campaign manager,
Corey Lewandowski, a trusted advisor out-
side the government, and dictated a message
for Lewandowski to deliver to Sessions. The
message said that Sessions should publicly
announce that, notwithstanding his recusal
from the Russia investigation, that the in-
vestigation was ‘‘very unfair’’ to the Presi-
dent, the President had done nothing wrong,
and Sessions planned to meet with the Spe-
cial Counsel and ‘‘let [him] move forward
with investigating election meddling for fu-
ture elections.’’ Lewandowski said he under-
stood what the President wanted Sessions to
do.
One month later, in another private meet-
ing with Lewandowski on July 19, 2017, the
President asked about the status of his mes-
sage for Sessions to limit the Special Coun-
sel’s investigation to future election inter-
ference. Lewandowski told the President
that the message would be delivered soon.
Hours after that meeting, the President pub-
licly criticized Sessions in an interview with
the New York Times, and then issued a se-
ries of tweets making it clear that Sessions’s
job was in jeopardy. Lewandowski did not
want to deliver the President’s message per-
sonally, so he asked senior White House offi-
cial Rick Dearborn to deliver it to Sessions.
Dearborn was uncomfortable with the task
and did not follow through.
That is the conclusion of that part of
the report.
Now, President Trump also took
steps to ‘‘prevent public disclosure of
evidence’’ that was related to the spe-
cial counsel’s investigation.
Back to the Mueller report:
In early 2018, the press reported that the
President had directed McGahn to have the
special counsel removed in June 2017 and
that McGahn had threatened to resign rather
than carry out the order. The President re-
acted to the news stories by directing White
House officials to tell McGahn to dispute the
story and to create a record stating that he
had not been ordered to have the Special
Counsel removed. McGahn told those offi-
cials that the media reports were accurate in
stating that the President had directed
McGahn to have the Special Counsel re-
moved. The President then met with
McGahn in the Oval Office and again pres-
sured him to deny the reports.
That is the end of that section.
Now, the President also tried to in-
fluence witnesses, like Michael Flynn
and Paul Manafort, while they cooper-
ated with the special counsel.
Back to the Mueller report:
With regard to Flynn, the President sent
private and public messages to Flynn en-
couraging him to stay strong and conveying
that the President still cared about him be-
fore he began to cooperate with the govern-
ment. When Flynn’s attorneys withdrew him
from a joint defense agreement with the
President, signaling that Flynn was poten-
tially cooperating with the government, the
President’s personal counsel initially re-
minded Flynn’s counsel of the President’s
warm feelings toward Flynn and said ‘‘that
still remains.’’ But when Flynn’s counsel re-
iterated that Flynn could no longer share in-
formation under a joint defense agreement,
the President’s personal counsel stated that
the decision would be interpreted as reflect-
ing Flynn’s hostility toward the President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.011 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2665
May 7, 2019
That sequence of events could have had the
potential to affect Flynn’s decision to co-
operate, as well as the extent of that co-
operation.
With respect to Manafort, there is evidence
that the President’s actions had the poten-
tial to influence Manafort’s decision whether
to cooperate with the government. The
President and his personal counsel made re-
peated statements suggesting that a pardon
was a possibility for Manafort, while also
making it clear that the President did not
want Manafort to ‘‘flip’’—
That is in quotes in the Mueller re-
port—
and cooperate with the government. On June
15, 2018, the day the judge presiding over
Manafort’s D.C. case was considering wheth-
er to revoke his bail, the President said that
he ‘‘felt badly’’ for Manafort and stated, ‘‘I
think a lot of it is very unfair.’’ And when
asked about a pardon for Manafort, the
President said, ‘‘I do want to see people
treated fairly. That’s what it’s all about.’’
Later that day, after Manafort’s bail was re-
voked, the President called it a ‘‘tough sen-
tence’’ that was ‘‘Very unfair!’’ Two days
later, the President’s personal counsel stated
that individuals involved in the Special
Counsel’s investigation could receive a par-
don ‘‘if, in fact, the [P]resident and his advi-
sors . . . come to the conclusion that you
have been treated unfairly,’’—using language
that paralleled how the President had al-
ready described the treatment of Manafort.
This is Mueller’s report.
Those statements, combined with the
President’s commendation of Manafort for
being a ‘‘brave man’’ who ‘‘refused to
break,’’ suggested that a pardon was a more
likely possibility if Manafort continued not
to cooperate with the government. And while
Manafort eventually pleaded guilty pursuant
to a cooperation agreement, he was found to
have violated the agreement by lying to in-
vestigators.
That concludes that portion of the
Mueller report.
Now, Mueller declined to take a posi-
tion because of the existing Depart-
ment of Justice Office of Legal Counsel
policy that you cannot indict a sitting
President. He intended to leave the
matter to Congress. He laid the evi-
dence out in the Mueller report, which
made clear that the President of the
United States obstructed justice.
And don’t just take my word for it.
Just yesterday, over 600 former Federal
prosecutors wrote a letter stating that
‘‘the conduct of President Trump de-
scribed in Special Counsel Robert
Mueller’s report would, in the case of
any other person not covered by the Of-
fice of Legal Counsel policy against in-
dicting a sitting President, result in
multiple felony charges for obstruction
of justice.’’
So I am going to read their letter be-
cause I think it is important, and I
want to make sure it is in the RECORD
here. Here is the letter from more than
600 former prosecutors.
We are former federal prosecutors. We
served under both Republican and Demo-
cratic administrations at different levels of
the federal system: as line attorneys, super-
visors, special prosecutors, United States at-
torneys, and senior officials at the Depart-
ment of Justice. The offices in which we
served were small, medium, and large; urban,
suburban, and rural; and located in all parts
of our country.
Each of us believes that the conduct of
President Trump described in Special Coun-
sel Robert Mueller’s report would, in the
case of any other person not covered by the
Office of Legal Counsel policy against indict-
ing a sitting President, result in multiple
felony charges for obstruction of justice.
I just want to read that again:
‘‘would . . . result in multiple felony
charges for obstruction of justice.’’
The Mueller report describes several acts
that satisfy all of the elements for an ob-
struction of justice charge. Conduct that ob-
structed or intended to obstruct the truth-
finding process, as to which the evidence of
corrupt intent and connection to pending
proceedings is overwhelming. These include:
The President’s efforts to fire Mueller and
to falsify evidence about that effort;
The President’s effort to limit the scope of
Mueller’s investigation to exclude his con-
duct; and
The President’s efforts to prevent wit-
nesses from cooperating with investigators
probing him and his campaign.
This is under the heading in the let-
ter ‘‘Attempts to fire Mueller and then
create false evidence.’’
Continuing with the letter:
Despite being advised by then-White House
Counsel Don McGahn that he could face legal
jeopardy for doing so, Trump directed
McGahn on multiple occasions to fire
Mueller or to gin up false conflicts of inter-
est as a pretext for getting rid of the Special
Counsel. When these acts began to come into
public view, Trump made ‘‘repeated efforts
to have McGahn deny the story’’—going so
far as to tell McGahn to write a letter ‘‘for
our files’’ falsely denying that Trump had di-
rected Mueller’s termination.
Firing Mueller would have seriously im-
peded the investigation of the President and
his associates—obstruction in its most lit-
eral sense. Directing the creation of false
government records in order to prevent or
discredit truthful testimony is similarly un-
lawful. The special counsel’s report states:
‘‘Substantial evidence indicates that in re-
peatedly urging McGahn to dispute that he
was ordered to have the Special Counsel ter-
minated, the President acted for the purpose
of influencing McGahn’s account in order to
deflect or prevent scrutiny of the President’s
conduct toward the investigation.’’
Also within the letter, under the
header Attempts to Limit the Mueller
Investigation, the report describes
multiple efforts by the President to
curtail the scope of the special coun-
sel’s investigation.
First, the President repeatedly pres-
sured then-Attorney General Jeff Ses-
sions to reverse his legally mandated
decision to recuse himself from the in-
vestigation. The President stated the
reason was that he wanted an Attorney
General who would ‘‘protect’’ him, in-
cluding from the special counsel’s in-
vestigation. He also directed then-
White House Chief of Staff Reince
Priebus to fire Sessions, and Priebus
refused.
Second, after McGahn told the Presi-
dent he could not contact Sessions
himself to discuss the investigation,
Trump went outside the White House
and instructed his former campaign
manager Corey Lewandowski to carry
a demand to Sessions to direct Mueller
to confine his investigation to future
elections. Lewandowski tried and
failed to contact Sessions in private.
After a second meeting with Trump,
Lewandowski passed Trump’s message
on to senior White House official Rick
Dearborn, who Lewandowski thought
would be a better messenger because of
his prior relationship with Sessions.
Dearborn did not pass along Trump’s
message.
As the report explains, ‘‘[s]ubstantial
evidence indicates that the President’s
effort to have Sessions limit the scope
of the Special Counsel’s investigation
to future election interference was in-
tended to prevent further investigative
scrutiny of the President’s and his
campaign’s conduct.’’
In other words, the President em-
ployed a private citizen to try to get
the Attorney General to limit the
scope of an ongoing investigation into
the President and his associates.
All of this conduct—trying to control
and impede the investigation against
the President by leveraging his author-
ity over others—is similar to conduct
we have seen that has been charged
against other public officials and peo-
ple in powerful positions.
The next section of the special coun-
sel’s report establishes that the Presi-
dent tried to influence the decisions of
both Michael Cohen and Paul Manafort
with regard to cooperating with inves-
tigators. Some of this tampering and
intimidation, including the dangling of
pardons, was done in plain sight via
tweets and public statements. Other
such behavior was done via private
messages through private attorneys,
such as Trump counsel Rudy Giuliani’s
message to Cohen’s lawyer that Cohen
should ‘‘[s]leep well tonight[], you have
friends in high places.’’
Of course, these aren’t the only acts
of potential obstruction detailed by the
special counsel. It would be well within
the purview of normal prosecutorial
judgment also to charge other acts de-
tailed in the report.
We emphasize that these are not
matters of close, professional judg-
ment. Of course, there are potential de-
fenses or arguments that could be
raised in response to an indictment of
the nature we describe here. In our sys-
tem, every accused person is presumed
innocent, and it is always the govern-
ment’s burden to prove its case beyond
a reasonable doubt. Yet to look at
these facts and say that a prosecutor
could not probably sustain a conviction
for obstruction of justice—the stand-
ards set out in Principles of Federal
Prosecution—runs counter to logic and
our experience.
As former Federal prosecutors, we recog-
nize that prosecuting obstruction of justice
cases is critical because unchecked obstruc-
tion, which allows intentional interference
with criminal investigations to go
unpunished, puts our whole system of justice
at risk. We believe strongly that but for the
OLC memo, the overwhelming weight of pro-
fessional judgment would come down in
favor of prosecution for the conduct outlined
in the Mueller report.
Over 600 former Federal prosecutors
are saying that if we were talking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:24 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.013 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2666 May 7, 2019
about any person in this country other
than the President of the United
States, that person would be pros-
ecuted for obstruction of justice. Be-
cause of that OLC opinion that a sit-
ting President cannot be indicted, the
only mechanism to hold the President
accountable and to ensure that the
President is not above the law is for
Congress to initiate impeachment pro-
ceedings.
There has been more commentary.
Scholars at Lawfare have put together
a very helpful piece that breaks down
all of the examples documented in the
Mueller report in which Trump may
have obstructed justice. Then it ana-
lyzes the strength of the case to be
made that the President is guilty of ob-
struction of justice.
Per Lawfare:
The key question is how Robert Mueller
and his team assessed the three elements
‘‘common to most of the relevant statutes’’
relating to obstruction of justice, which are
an obstructive act, a nexus between the act
and an official proceeding, and corrupt in-
tent.
As Mueller describes, the special counsel’s
office ‘‘gathered evidence . . . relevant to
the elements of those crimes and analyzed
them within an elements framework—while
refraining from reaching ultimate conclu-
sions about whether crimes were com-
mitted’’ because of the Office of Legal Coun-
sel (OLC)’s guidelines against the indictment
of a sitting president.
The Lawfare blog identified four in-
stances in the Mueller report that doc-
umented ‘‘substantial’’ evidence of all
three of those elements. In other
words, in the following four examples
that were documented in the Mueller
report, there is ‘‘substantial’’ evidence
on all three of the elements that
Mueller based his assessment on that
the President obstructed justice.
First, when it comes to the Presi-
dent’s efforts to fire Mueller, the re-
port found ‘‘substantial evidence’’—
that is from the report—that the Presi-
dent’s actions constituted an obstruc-
tive act. On page 89, it found that the
former White House Counsel, Don
McGahn, was a ‘‘credible witness’’ in
providing evidence that Trump, indeed,
attempted to fire Mueller. The report
reads that this ‘‘would qualify as an
obstructive act’’ if the firing ‘‘would
naturally obstruct the investigation
and any grand jury proceedings that
might flow from the inquiry.’’
Then it established that there was a
nexus between the act and an official
proceeding, reading on page 89 that
there is ‘‘substantial evidence’’ that
Trump was aware that ‘‘his conduct
was under investigation by a federal
prosecutor who could present any evi-
dence of federal crimes to a grand
jury.’’
On the question of intent, the
Mueller report found ‘‘substantial evi-
dence indicates that the President’s at-
tempts to remove the Special Counsel
were linked to the Special Counsel’s
oversight of investigations that in-
volved the President’s conduct[.]’’
The second example that Mueller
cites is the President’s efforts to cur-
tail Mueller. On the question of wheth-
er those actions constituted an ob-
structive act, Mueller found that
Trump’s effort to force Sessions to con-
fine the investigation to investigating
only future election interference
‘‘would qualify as an obstructive act if
it would naturally obstruct the inves-
tigation and any grand jury pro-
ceedings that might flow from the in-
quiry.’’ The report continues: ‘‘Taken
together, the President’s directives in-
dicate that Sessions was being in-
structed to tell the Special Counsel to
end the existing investigation into the
President and his campaign[.]’’
On the question of whether there was
a nexus between the act and an official
proceeding, Mueller found that at the
relevant point, ‘‘the existence of a
grand jury investigation supervised by
the Special Counsel was public knowl-
edge.’’
On the question of intent, Mueller
found ‘‘substantial evidence’’ that indi-
cates that Trump’s efforts were ‘‘in-
tended to prevent further investigative
scrutiny of the President’s and his
campaign’s conduct.’’
MITCH MCCONNELL came to the floor
to declare that there will be no more
investigation into what the President
has done. Yet the Mueller report has
made clear that there are repeated in-
stances of obstruction of justice. More
than 600 Federal prosecutors have now
said that what is laid out in the
Mueller report would constitute ob-
struction of justice and would trigger a
prosecution for any human being in
this country other than for the Presi-
dent of the United States.
Robert Mueller has put all of the
facts and information together for us
and has abided by the Trump adminis-
tration’s declaration, under the Office
of Legal Counsel, that a sitting Presi-
dent cannot be indicted for his crimes.
He has handed it over to the Congress
of the United States of America for us
to do our constitutional duty.
We are a government that works by a
separation of powers. We are not a gov-
ernment that circles the wagon around
a leader and says that everything else
falls away. Instead, we say there are
powers that are given to the President
and powers that are given to Congress,
and each operates as a check on the
other.
The information that has been given
to us in the Mueller report clearly con-
stitutes adequate information to begin
an impeachment proceeding in the
House of Representatives. No matter
how many times MITCH MCCONNELL or
the rest of the Republicans want to
wish that away, it is there in black and
white in the report.
I urge every Republican in this
Chamber, every Republican and Demo-
crat in Congress, and every person in
this country to read the Mueller re-
port.
Robert Mueller makes clear that the
President of the United States worked
actively to obstruct justice. There is
enough here to bring an impeachment
proceeding. For us, for this body, for
Congress, to back up from that and to
say that protecting the President is
more important than protecting the
Constitution is not only wrong, it is a
violation of our oath of office.
I am here to say one more time and
publicly this is not a fight I wanted to
take on, but this is the fight in front of
us now. This is not about politics. This
is about the Constitution of the United
States of America.
We took an oath not to try to protect
Donald Trump; we took an oath to pro-
tect and serve the Constitution of the
United States of America, and the way
we do that is we begin impeachment
proceedings now against this Presi-
dent.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The assistant Democratic lead-
er.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want
to thank my colleague from Massachu-
setts for her statement and for going
into depth on the Mueller report and
talking about the findings.
This morning, of course, we heard the
Republican leader, Senator MCCON-
NELL, come to the floor and say some-
thing quite different—to quote what he
said, the work of the special counsel
and the Attorney General ‘‘and how we
can finally end this ‘Groundhog Day’
spectacle, stop endlessly relitigating a
21⁄2-year-old election result, and move
forward for the American people.’’
It is pretty clear the Republican
leader would like to say to the Amer-
ican people: Keep on moving, there is
nothing to be seen here. But we know
better.
If you take a look at the Mueller re-
port: $26 million spent, 50 attorneys
and agents, almost 2 years, scores of
indictments that came down and some
guilty pleas already and yet even more
to follow. This isn’t over, and it will
not be over soon, nor should it be.
It is obvious my Republican col-
leagues want to move on as quickly as
possible from talking about how Russia
interfered in the 2016 election with the
stated intent of helping to elect Donald
Trump President. They definitely don’t
want to talk about the many links be-
tween the Russians and the Trump
campaign or how, in the words of the
Mueller report: ‘‘The campaign ex-
pected it would benefit electorally
from information stolen and released
through Russian efforts.’’
They certainly don’t want to talk
about the overwhelming evidence that
Donald Trump obstructed justice.
Today I believe the count was up to
566 former prosecutors, including U.S.
attorneys, who believe that, reading
the Mueller report, there is ample evi-
dence to go forward with the prosecu-
tion on obstruction.
We know Mueller himself has said in
the report that it is an opinion by the
Office of Legal Counsel precluding the
indictment and prosecution of a Presi-
dent while in office that stopped him
short of either charging or exonerating
the President on this charge.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.014 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2667
May 7, 2019
No, my Republican colleagues want
to put the Russia investigation in the
past, and as quickly as possible. And
then in the next breath, of course, at
the hearing where Attorney General
Barr appeared, we see that they want
to return to those thrilling days of yes-
teryear. They say we need to look at
Hillary Clinton’s emails all over again.
That, to them, is a more compelling
issue. I think they are wrong. The in-
terference by a foreign power in the
U.S. election is the most compelling
issue before us, and it cannot and
should not be ignored.
The work on the Russia investigation
is not over. The Mueller report has 14
criminal investigations that have been
referred by the special counsel to other
Justice Department components.
Twelve of those referred investigations
are redacted so we don’t know their na-
ture.
There is also the counterintelligence
side of the investigation. We need to
fully understand what evidence Special
Counsel Mueller uncovered about how
the Russians were able to accomplish
what they did.
A spokesman for the White House
said several days ago that he couldn’t
understand all the furor behind this
Russia interference. After all, they just
bought a couple Facebook ads. Well, it
turns out he was wrong. There was a
lot more involvement, and the Mueller
report pointed to it.
Here is my concern: Attorney Gen-
eral Barr’s actions have compromised
his credibility when it comes to over-
seeing the continuing investigations
that were brought on by the Mueller
inquiry. Barr’s blatant
mischaracterization of the Mueller re-
port in his March 24 letter and April 18
press conference, his 19-page memo in
2018 that showed bias on the question
of obstruction, his decision to make a
prosecutorial judgment on obstruction
despite Mueller’s view that it was not
appropriate for the Department to do
so in light of that OLC opinion, and
Barr’s many stunning statements be-
fore Congress have undermined con-
fidence in his independence and his
judgment.
I have called on him publicly and
renew that call that he recuse himself
from those pending criminal investiga-
tions and prosecutions that emanate
from the Mueller report. At a min-
imum, he should recuse himself from
the 14 ongoing referred criminal inves-
tigations, and Special Counsel Mueller
and Don McGahn should be called on to
testify about unresolved questions.
Why in the world are they trying to
cover up this investigation? Why
wouldn’t we bring Bob Mueller before
the Senate Judiciary Committee, for
example, and ask obvious questions?
Remember, there are two volumes in
the Mueller report. The first volume
relates to Russian interference in the
election and our continuing concern
that they are going to try it again in
2020. Shouldn’t it be priority one of the
Senate Judiciary Committee to have
Bob Mueller before us, to have the evi-
dence he accumulated carefully evalu-
ated to protect the integrity of the
election process in 2020? Is there any
higher priority in a democracy than
the integrity of an election?
Clearly, there is, and we have seen it
and heard it from the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee as well as from
the Republican leader today. The high-
est priority for them is to move on;
make certain that we don’t spend any
moment contemplating, considering, or
even arguing about what we could do
to make this a better and safer democ-
racy in the next electoral cycle.
On the issue of obstruction of justice,
I am afraid we are going to be debating
that for some time, but I certainly
would like to hear from Bob Mueller,
directly, what he did find and why he
did not reach a conclusion to exonerate
the President on that charge. That is a
critical element.
Let me say one last word about a re-
curring theme and message from the
Republican leader about how the pre-
vious President, Barack Obama, did
not take seriously the threats of Rus-
sian involvement in the 2016 election.
I think the record speaks for itself.
Leading up to October 7, when the
President came forward and publicly
stated what he had been doing—what
his administration had been doing to
investigate this Russian interference,
he called for a bipartisan commitment
of Republicans and Democrats to stop
it in place.
There was one voice of resistance,
and it came from Senator MCCONNELL,
the Republican leader. He didn’t want
to take this as seriously as President
Obama did. So for him to blame Presi-
dent Obama for not doing enough is to
ignore the obvious. Given the chance,
as the Republican Senate leader, he did
little or nothing to acknowledge the
Russian threat or do anything about it.
Now we should do something to make
sure 2020 turns out to be an election we
can be proud of, regardless of the out-
come. Let the American people have
the last word, not Vladimir Putin.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
the cloture votes on the Reed, Bachus,
and Pryor nominations occur at 4 p.m.
on Tuesday, May 7; further, that if clo-
ture is invoked on the nominations on
Wednesday, May 8, at 10 a.m., the Sen-
ate vote on the confirmations of the
following persons and nominations in
the order listed: Bianco, Reed, Bachus,
and Pryor; that if confirmed, the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s actions and the Senate re-
sume consideration of the Dhillon nom-
ination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, is it so ordered.
EXPORT-IMPORT NOMINATIONS
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I rise to
speak in support of several of the nomi-
nations to the Export-Import Bank:
Ms. Kimberly Reed, to be President of
the Export-Import Bank; the Honor-
able Spencer Bachus, to be a member of
the Board of Directors of the Export-
Import Bank; and Ms. Judith Pryor, to
be a member of the Board of Directors
of the Export-Import Bank.
These three highly qualified nomi-
nees, if confirmed, will be in a position
to ensure that the Export-Import Bank
has the ability to provide finance in re-
sponse to governments, like China,
that provide aggressive subsidies and
place U.S. exporters at a disadvantage.
The President and his team have re-
cently reinforced their commitment to
restoring the ability of the Bank to
support American economic interests
in global marketplaces.
The Director of the National Eco-
nomic Council, Larry Kudlow, recently
noted that the Ex-Im Bank is needed in
the current trade environment, par-
ticularly with respect to China, in
order for the United States to compete
and succeed in international markets,
calling it a ‘‘financial tool and a na-
tional security weapon.’’
U.S. Trade Representative Robert
Lighthizer has called the lack of a
functioning Ex-Im Bank a serious blow
to the economy.
Peter Navarro, Director of the Office
of Trade and Manufacturing Policy,
has said: ‘‘The costs of keeping the Ex-
Im Bank on the sidelines can be meas-
ured in the tens of billions of dollars of
products we fail to export—and in the
thousands of jobs we fail to create
when this country does not have a fully
functioning export credit agency to
compete with its counterparts around
the world.’’
It is clear that in our current trade
environment, a fully functioning bank
could help the United States better
succeed in international markets.
President Trump’s recent budget sub-
mission to Congress notes that the
President ‘‘supports a fully functioning
Ex-Im Bank to implement reforms and
help American exporters compete in an
increasingly unfair global market-
place.’’
As President of the Export-Import
Bank, Kimberly Reed will be able to
draw from an already distinguished ca-
reer in public service, having pre-
viously served as a senior adviser to
former Treasury Secretaries Paulson
and Snow, as well as on several con-
gressional committees.
During her nomination hearing, she
committed to focusing on strong stand-
ards of conduct, increased trans-
parency, sound risk management prac-
tices, and eliminating waste, fraud, and
abuse.
I can testify that she has gone out of
her way to make herself available to
all Senators on both sides of the aisle
to introduce herself and to answer any
questions the Senators have and to dis-
cuss any reforms and improvements
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.016 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2668 May 7, 2019
she may be able to make to the Bank
when she is confirmed.
Former Representative Bachus and I
were elected to the House of Represent-
atives in the same term and worked
closely together in the House for a
number of years. He served the Sixth
District of Alabama from 1993 to 2015.
During that time, he served as both
chairman and ranking member of the
House Financial Services Committee.
He is a pragmatic conservative and has
demonstrated a longstanding commit-
ment to promoting economic oppor-
tunity.
Finally, a native of Cleveland, OH,
Ms. Pryor has spent the majority of
her career in the private sector, work-
ing with international businesses,
many in the high-tech industry. More
recently, she has served as the Vice
President of External Affairs at the
Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion under President Obama. During
her confirmation hearing, Ms. Pryor
expressed a commitment to particu-
larly help raise awareness of the Ex-
port-Import Bank’s financing products
for small businesses and community
banks.
While it is not really being included
in the coverage of these nomination
votes as being one of the consequences
of there being a lack of a quorum on
the Board, it is important to under-
stand another important reason to con-
firm not one but all three of these
nominees.
When the Export-Import Bank was
last reauthorized in 2015, Congress im-
plemented a number of reforms to the
Bank. However, by not confirming a
quorum of at least three Board mem-
bers for the last several years, Con-
gress has actually impeded implemen-
tation of a number of its own reforms,
which require a vote of a quorum of the
Board for approval.
These reforms include appointing a
chief ethics officer, appointing a chief
risk officer, forming a risk manage-
ment committee, implementing new
guidelines to expedite small business
loans under $25 million, and developing
an expanded medium-term program to
finance and ensure transactions up to
$25 million.
We have many colleagues who have
said there need to be reforms imple-
mented in order for them to further
support operation of the Bank, and
they would like to work with us on the
Banking Committee to pursue those re-
forms. I support reforms, too, and look
forward to working with interested col-
leagues, but we need to understand
that we will need a quorum on the Ex-
Im Bank to finalize them.
For any previous or future congres-
sionally directed reforms to be imple-
mented, Senators need to support all
three nominations before the Senate
this week in order to restore the
quorum necessary to implement those
reforms.
The Banking Committee approved
each of these nominees with broad bi-
partisan support earlier this year. Each
will be an asset to the Bank’s Board,
and I urge my colleagues to support
these nominations.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:30 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
NOMINATION OF KIMBERLY A. REED
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
am very honored to offer my support
today for Kimberly Reed to be Presi-
dent of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States. I think the Presiding
Officer is very proud, too. We are both
proud that the first woman to lead the
Ex-Im Bank will also be the first West
Virginian.
As a former West Virginia small busi-
ness owner, I know this is an engine for
economic growth and long-term sta-
bility and prosperity. It is truly bene-
ficial for those businesses to reach
broader markets and new customers.
Rural states like West Virginia have a
lot of talent and a lot of great busi-
nesses, but we need to make sure these
companies are hitting global markets
and building in sales and supporting
more jobs here at home.
The Ex-Im Bank creates jobs and
helps businesses, both big and small, to
sell their products overseas at no
cost—I repeat, at no cost—to the Fed-
eral Government, in addition to pro-
viding loans and other forms of credit.
The Bank can also help with market
research and to identify potential buy-
ers and distributors of products in for-
eign countries. It is like having your
own reconnaissance team, PR team,
and a sales force, everything wrapped
up into one.
In 2014, I invited the former Ex-Im
Bank Chairman, Fred Hochberg, to
West Virginia. Since then the Bank has
worked with 14 West Virginia busi-
nesses throughout the State, providing
$11 million in loans to support $18 mil-
lion in exports. The people in West Vir-
ginia had no idea of the opportunities
that a small business person would
have with the Ex-Im Bank. They had
no idea how to get into foreign mar-
kets. They didn’t have any idea about
the collections process or the legal ex-
pertise in that arena. This helped them
immensely.
I know Kimberly wants to do the
same thing for our State and for small
businesses across rural America.
I can state that Kim’s West Virginia
roots shaped her to be the leader she is
today. Growing up in Buckhannon, WV,
and graduating from West Virginia
Wesleyan College and West Virginia
University, Kim checks all of the boxes
for the best and brightest our State
can offer. Every West Virginian will
know what it means when I say that
she was a Golden Horseshoe awardee
and a Governor’s Honors Academy
graduate.
She hasn’t lost sight of those roots,
either. She continues to serve on the
Wesleyan board of trustees and has
worked with West Virginians every
step of her career, whether it was as
the senior adviser to the Secretary of
the Treasury or the head of the Com-
munity Development Financial Insti-
tutions Fund.
Kim exemplifies bedrock Appa-
lachian values, and her deep commit-
ment to serving her Nation through
the House of Representatives and the
Department of Treasury is a true testa-
ment to her character. I have always
been proud to call her a West Vir-
ginian, and I know that I and the Pre-
siding Officer will be proud to call her
the President and Chairwoman of the
Ex-Im Bank.
I urge my colleagues to support Kim-
berly Reed to lead the Export-Import
Bank of the United States.
Thank you, Madam President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, the
performance of the U.S. economy is
something to behold. It doesn’t matter
if you measure it by the unemployment
rate, by the quarterly growth rates, or
by wages, virtually every sign points to
a growing thriving economy.
Let me emphasize some of the out-
standing job numbers that came out
just last week. In April, there were
263,000 new jobs created—263,000—beat-
ing even the most optimistic esti-
mates. The unemployment rate fell to
3.6 percent—the lowest unemployment
rate in nearly half a century.
The first quarter saw a 3.2 percent
growth, the best in 4 years. The truth
is, the United States’ economy has
taken off like a rocket.
Today we find ourselves in what
some economists refer to as a ‘‘full em-
ployment’’ economy, because there are
more job openings than there are job
seekers. That is a remarkable place to
be, and I have no doubt that it is in sig-
nificant part due to the pro-growth
policies created by a Republican-led
Congress and the Trump administra-
tion the last 2 years.
Less than 11⁄2 years ago we passed the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We tried to
make this a bipartisan effort, but our
Democratic friends wanted no part of
it. This was the first major tax over-
haul in a generation. This legislation
removed many of the burdens from
families, entrepreneurs, and job cre-
ators and let the free market take the
wheel.
A lot of pundits and a lot of the
naysayers—the professional cynics—
said it wouldn’t work, but I think the
results speak for themselves. Workers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.017 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2669
May 7, 2019
are bringing home more in their pay-
checks, and businesses are using their
savings to invest in their employees.
One of the most common remarks I
hear from employers when I am in
Texas is that they can’t find enough
qualified workers for the job openings
that exist. That is their biggest chal-
lenge because of this booming econ-
omy.
In the days and months following the
signing of the tax bill, companies
began announcing how they would use
the money that they would save be-
cause of the legislation to invest in
their employees and their business. We
heard from big companies like AT&T,
which is headquartered in Dallas,
which provided $1,000 bonuses for more
than 200,000 of its employees, including
more than 32,000 who live in Texas.
There was also Southwest Airlines,
which gave all 550,000 of its employees
a $1,000 bonus. Plus Southwest Airlines
donated $5 million to charity, to boot.
We saw headlines in the major news-
papers about how these and countless
other big companies were using their
savings, but the less read stories about
local businesses in small town papers
are just as important.
This week is National Small Business
Week, an opportunity to celebrate
small businesses that line Main Streets
throughout America, but don’t let the
word ‘‘small’’ fool you. America’s 30
million small businesses are an eco-
nomic force unparalleled anywhere in
the world. More than half of Americans
either own or work for a small busi-
ness—more than half. Small businesses
are responsible for about two out of
every three jobs created.
One of the reasons my State is doing
so well economically is because we wel-
come small businesses with open arms.
It is an ideal home for entrepreneurs
because we believe in keeping taxes
low and regulations at a rational min-
imum. According to the Small Business
Administration, there are more than
2.6 million small businesses throughout
the State of Texas, accounting for 99.8
percent of all Texas businesses. They
employ more than 45 percent of the
State’s workforce and account for a
massive portion of our State’s econ-
omy. These are exactly the kind of
folks I had in mind when I voted to
pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, be-
cause I knew it would lower rates for
small businesses and allow them to use
the savings to invest in their employ-
ees and their business.
After the legislation passed, just to
make sure, I traveled the State and
held roundtables with small businesses
to learn more about how they were
using the savings. One of the small
business owners I heard from was Josh
Agrelin, whose company, Re-Bath, spe-
cializes in bathroom remodeling. A few
years ago, back in 2014, I spent a day
with the crews at Re-Bath of Austin as
part of the NFIB’s Small Business
Challenge Campaign. I got to try my
hand at tiling and remodeling a bath-
room, and while I will not be opening
my own contracting company any time
soon, I had a great time learning about
this Austin franchise and getting to
know its employees.
When I saw Josh again at our round-
table last year, he told me he plans to
use the savings from tax reform to
grow the size of his workforce by add-
ing two additional installation crews
and purchasing new equipment.
For big businesses that might not
sound like a lot, but for small busi-
nesses like Re-Bath, it makes a world
of difference. It means they can offer
more services and gain more business,
grow the size of their business, and pay
their employees even better. It was
great to see how Joshua was looking
forward to opportunities to grow his
business and I am glad this legislation
could help make that possible.
In Houston, I visited with Southland
Hardware, a store that opened in 1935.
This is an old-fashioned hardware
store. You don’t see many of those any-
more. It has been a community staple,
and it is appropriately dubbed ‘‘the
store that has ‘almost’ everything.’’ It
is owned by Marty and Patricia
O’Brien, and they were kind enough to
host me and a couple of other busi-
nesses for a roundtable last spring.
Marty told me that because of the
tax savings, they were able to provide
bonuses and raises, hire another em-
ployee, and do some improvements on
their property. For Marty, being able
to invest more in his business, which
was originally owned by his father-in-
law and will one day be run by his chil-
dren, is no small thing.
I also spent some time on the gulf
coast, in Corpus Christi, speaking to
Steve Raffaele, the president of Amer-
ican Bank. He told me the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act would likely provide
them with $12 million of additional
capital savings. He said that for each
dollar of capital saved, they are able to
lend approximately $10 in their market
communities along the Coastal Bend
region of our State. He estimated that
over 5 years that equates to $120 mil-
lion of additional lending and invest-
ment. Given their average loan size,
that means more than 500 small busi-
nesses could be positively impacted.
That is a big deal for a community like
Corpus Christi, but especially for one
so severely impacted by Hurricane Har-
vey just about 11⁄2 years ago.
Today small business optimism is at
a record high. I hope that small busi-
nesses across the country feel empow-
ered to take their businesses further
because of these pro-growth policies.
Small businesses are, as I said, the
backbone of our economy and, of
course, of each of our communities.
This Small Business Week we cele-
brate the entrepreneurs and the job
creators who had the courage to take
an idea and build it into an oppor-
tunity for themselves, for their fami-
lies, for their employees, and for their
communities. These men and women
are proof that the American dream is
alive and well, and we are grateful to
each of them for the contributions they
make to our communities and to our
country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
EX-IM BANK
Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President,
later today I believe the Senate will be
considering nominations of three Board
members for the Export-Import Bank,
and this is a very important and, I
think, unfortunate development.
Since 2015, the Ex-Im Bank Board has
not had a quorum. The confirmation of
these three nominees will change that
and give them a quorum, and that mat-
ters for a number of reasons. Perhaps
the principle reason is that in the ab-
sence of a quorum, such as the way we
have been operating for these last 41⁄2
years, the Ex-Im Board cannot approve
transactions without a quorum, and it
requires Ex-Im Board approval to do a
deal over $10 million. So for these last
41⁄2 years, the Export-Import Bank has
been in existence and operating, but at
a very much smaller level than what it
had done previously, and what, I am
afraid, it will again resume.
Let me explain why I oppose con-
firming this quorum to the Board of
the Export-Import Bank. First of all,
as I will explain, I think that with a
quorum there is a very real risk that
the Ex-Im Bank returns to business as
usual, which is a form of crony cap-
italism and taxpayer subsidy of compa-
nies far and wide.
Historically, the fact is the Ex-Im
Bank has used the American taxpayer
to subsidize some of the largest and
best connected companies in the world,
including governments that are very
unfriendly to the United States. So I
want to describe my policy objections
to the Ex-Im. I want to rebut some of
the arguments that proponents of the
Ex-Im Bank make. I want to walk
through a little history to remind my
colleagues about the folks who have
blocked what I think are very common-
sense efforts to make some meaningful
reforms. Then, finally, I do want to dis-
cuss a path forward. So let me walk
through my concerns, my objections to
the way Ex-Im Bank has operated in
the past when it is in full-blown oper-
ation mode and with a quorum on the
Board.
First of all, it has been a series of
risky bets for taxpayers. The Ex-Im
has sometimes claimed it only takes
risks that private lenders are unable or
unwilling to take. Well, we should stop
right there and ask ourselves, if pri-
vate lenders are unwilling or unable to
take a risk, why should taxpayers be
forced to take that risk? Yet, at the
same time, the Ex-Im Bank also claims
it only makes safe bets. Well, it is im-
possible to do both.
The Bank cannot take only those
transactions so risky that no one else
will do it and at the same time be
doing only safe transactions. It is pret-
ty obvious. The fact is, Ex-Im Bank
wins business by systemically under-
pricing the risk. That is why borrowers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.020 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2670 May 7, 2019
go to the Ex-Im Bank, instead of any
number of private lenders that would
not offer deals on the same terms as
the Ex-Im Bank. No, because they have
shareholders to answer to—Ex-Im
Bank, not so much.
Proponents of the Ex-Im Bank point
out that the Bank isn’t drawing any
money from the U.S. Treasury so ev-
erything must be OK—not so clear.
First of all, right now we have the best
economy in decades. My goodness. I
would hope they would not be drawing
on Treasury with an economy booming
the way it is.
As recently as 2014, the last year in
which the Ex-Im Bank was fully oper-
ational, the CBO report suggested that
the Ex-Im portfolio, their loans and
guarantees on their books, were under-
water by $2 billion. Remember, we have
heard this before. Remember, Fannie
and Freddie, two other inventions of
the Federal Government. They were
very profitable until they weren’t.
Then they ended up costing the tax-
payers $200 billion.
Another objection I have is the fact
that Ex-Im Bank necessarily picks win-
ners and losers in our economy. I don’t
think any entity of the Federal Gov-
ernment ought to be doing it. It is a
great deal for businesses that get the
support of Ex-Im Bank, but it provides
an unfair advantage to beneficiaries
over companies that do not get that
support. In the process, it can destroy
jobs. This isn’t just hypothetical; this
is real. This has happened, and we
know it because we have heard testi-
mony. We have seen examples. One fa-
mous such example is a case where Air
India, the national airline of the coun-
try of India, used Ex-Im Bank financ-
ing to subsidize its purchase of Boeing
jets. That is very nice for Air India be-
cause they get lower cost financing on
their biggest ticket item, the jets they
fly. They were able to lower the fares
they charge on flights from New York
to Mumbai. That is great if you are Air
India. It is not so great if you are Delta
Airlines, an American company that
employs Americans and happens to
compete on that exact same route, but
Delta could not get access to Ex-Im fi-
nancing to buy its Boeing jets. Why
would we do a thing like that, have
taxpayers subsidizing a foreign airline
that is competing directly against a
U.S. airline? That is the kind of thing
Ex-Im does. There is also a history of
waste, fraud, and abuse.
Ex-Im Bank has not been very well
run for a long period of time. Over
many years, there have been a number
of issues raised by the Office of the In-
spector General. Ironically enough,
supporters of Ex-Im Bank have blocked
my efforts to get a new inspector gen-
eral confirmed. Makes you wonder,
why do these proponents not want an
inspector general on the job inspecting
the practices of the Ex-Im Bank? In
2015, an employee pled guilty to accept-
ing bribes to push unqualified loan ap-
plications. Maybe one of the most fun-
damental reasons I object to the Ex-Im
Bank is our economy doesn’t need the
Ex-Im Bank.
Now, some Ex-Im supporters would
have you believe that without the Ex-
Im Bank, U.S. exports would just col-
lapse. Well, the reality is, U.S. exports
are higher today than they were in
2014, certainly, the last year when the
Ex-Im Bank was fully functional. As a
matter of fact, now, you know, 41⁄2
years since the Ex-Im Bank was fully
functional, we have the strongest econ-
omy of our lifetime, despite the fact
that the Ex-Im can only do tiny trans-
actions. This is no surprise because,
even in its heyday, Ex-Im financed a
very tiny percentage of all U.S. ex-
ports. Typically, it is less than 2 per-
cent. So 98-point-something percent of
all U.S. exports managed to get sold
without Ex-Im financing, but yet we
are to believe that without Ex-Im fi-
nancing we cannot have exports?
Interestingly, even the companies
that benefited the most from Ex-Im
Bank haven’t apparently suffered since
it has been virtually closed. Consider
the case of Boeing. According to a
Mercatus study, Boeing was the biggest
seller of exports financed with Ex-Im
subsidies in 2014, the last year in which
Ex-Im was fully functional, and nearly
40 percent of all Ex-Im deals by dollar
value were used to finance Boeing air-
craft.
Now, the Ex-Im proponents often ar-
gued that companies like Boeing would
take a huge hit without a fully func-
tioning Ex-Im. Instead, Boeing has con-
sistently had record deliveries and
multiyear back orders since Ex-Im
stopped doing deals that would finance
Boeing aircraft. In fact, during the
years that Ex-Im Bank has been vir-
tually closed, Boeing has recorded
record sales.
In late 2018, prior to the recent prob-
lems they have had with one category
of aircraft, the Wall Street Journal re-
ported that Boeing suppliers could not
keep up with the huge demand for Boe-
ing aircraft, despite the fact that no-
body could finance an aircraft from
Boeing through the Ex-Im Bank. Now,
why? Why is that? How could that be?
It is because Boeing was making great
products; demand was strong; and
there is plenty of private capital avail-
able to finance great products being
used for very productive purposes.
I think Boeing is proof that the Ex-
Im Bank wasn’t acting as the lender of
last resort, filling in where private
markets could not or would not. Ex-Im
Bank was acting as the lender of first
resort, crowding out the private sector
lenders. As soon as the Ex-Im Bank’s
funding was constrained so it would
not fund aircraft, well, private money
came flooding into the market. Yet we
still have proponents argue that Ex-Im
Bank is the lender of last resort, steps
in when private financing is unavail-
able, but, again, no matter how you
look at it, this just doesn’t add up. It
doesn’t add up in the example of Boe-
ing, when we look at an American
manufacturer that sells its products,
and, in the past, some of those pur-
chases were funded through the Ex-Im
Bank, but it also doesn’t hold up if you
look at it the other way around. Look
at who, in 2014—again, the last year in
which the Ex-Im Bank was fully func-
tional—were the top recipients of the
Ex-Im taxpayer subsidies, who was it
that was borrowing the money so they
could make these purchases? Well, it
was all entities that have easy access
to private money but some pretty sur-
prising entities, nevertheless.
The No. 1 borrower, the No. 1 con-
sumer of U.S. taxpayer subsidies
through Ex-Im Bank was Petroleos
Mexicanos, a state-owned oil company
in Mexico. It is a huge company from a
really large country that can easily ac-
cess private markets.
Do you know who is No. 2? Kenya
Airways. Kenya Airways, owned by the
Government of, you guessed it, Kenya.
Do you know who is No. 3? Air China,
of all places, a totally state-owned air-
line of a country that last time I
checked is not terribly friendly to us,
but it gets worse.
Do you know who ranks No. 4? No. 4
in terms of accessing Ex-Im financing
in 2014—the last year in which they
were fully operational—according to a
study by the Mercatus Institute, the
VNE Bank, state owned by the Russian
Government, by the way, under sanc-
tions now for bad behavior they have
engaged in. So all four of these are
state owned in States that have easy
access to plenty of private lending, but,
of course, they go to Ex-Im because Ex-
Im will offer them a better deal, a sub-
sidized deal.
No. 5 is a good one too. No. 5 is not
a state-owned company. No. 5 is Roy
Hill mining. Royal Hill Holdings owns
mining. It is not state owned. Instead,
it is owned by the richest woman in
Australia, a multibillionaire. Are we to
really presume that she cannot arrange
for financing for part of her enormous
conglomerate? Really, the richest
woman in Australia? She is probably a
really lovely woman. This is not a crit-
icism of her; it is a criticism of us. We
are going to allow U.S. taxpayers to
take more risks underpricing and fund-
ing acquisitions by some of the richest
people in the world and countries that
are downright hostile to us.
Of course, all of these governments
and all of these companies can finance
their acquisitions privately, but who
would not take a U.S. taxpayer subsidy
if it is offered to you? The question is,
Why are we OK with that? How can it
be OK to force American taxpayers to
take a financial risk for these entities,
state-owned companies, including
those owned by China and Russia? It is
unbelievable.
My concern is, if we restore a quorum
later today, we are going to go right
back to this because we haven’t en-
acted any reforms. We haven’t insisted
on any reforms as a condition of rees-
tablishing this quorum.
We hear sometimes from the pro-
ponents that we just have to have Ex-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.022 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2671
May 7, 2019
Im funding because it has to level the
playing field. China has an export sub-
sidy bank. They have used that aggres-
sively, and so we ought to emulate the
Chinese so we will have a level playing
field.
Well, among the unbelievable ironies
in this whole story, guess who is a big
recipient of U.S. Ex-Im subsidies? It is
the Chinese export bank. You cannot
make this stuff up. That is a fact. It is
not just Air China. It is not just the
state-owned airline.
In 2014—again, the last year in which
Ex-Im was fully operational, which ap-
parently they are going to return to—
there were 17 transactions where the
primary borrower is the Export-Import
Bank of China.
So here we are, we are funding the
Chinese export bank, which we cite as
the reason we need an export bank. It
is unbelievable.
In 2014, the Ex-Im Bank also funded a
deal with Huawei, which we have all
come to appreciate is a very significant
national security threat to the entire
Western world, especially the United
States. Of course, what more can you
say about subsidizing Russian- or
state-owned businesses? There were
multiple deals back in 2014 where the
Ex-Im Bank funded Russia. I already
mentioned VNE Bank, now sanctioned,
and two deals with Spur Bank, also
sanctioned.
In any case, I think this whole argu-
ment, that if some other country is en-
gaged in this behavior, therefore, we
have to—I think that is a really weak
argument. Think of all the things the
Chinese Government does, intellectual
property theft, forced technology
transfer, bribery, and corruption. As a
matter of fact, in Malaysia, the pre-
vious corrupt Government of Malaysia
stole billions of money from an invest-
ment fund, and China offered to use
their Ex-Im Bank to help cover up the
graft, which indirectly we were facili-
tating by doing transactions with that
Chinese Ex-Im Bank. I trust that sup-
porters of the Bank do not want the
U.S. to emulate all of these kinds of
nefarious activities. I am sure they do
not, but the same argument could
apply.
So with all of these concerns in mind,
I have been advocating for reform of
the Ex-Im Bank since joining the Sen-
ate. Let me be clear. I would rather not
have an Ex-Im Bank, but if we are
going to have one, and if we are going
to reconstitute a Board and allow them
to do large-scale business, I think, at a
minimum, we ought to make some sen-
sible reforms. Unfortunately, pro-
ponents of Ex-Im Bank in this body
and in the other body have blocked al-
most every effort to do so. One small
reform that many of us have been
clamoring for, for years, would be to
have the administration, whatever ad-
ministration, work to pursue a mutual
disarmament. The argument that we
hear most frequently is we need Ex-Im
Bank because other countries have ex-
port-subsidizing banks. Well, OK, how
about having a mutual negotiation to
phase these out, right? Well, the
Obama administration did absolutely
nothing about it, and we have a lot of
trade talks going on right now under
this administration. I have not heard
one word about encouraging a wind
down of everybody’s mutually unfortu-
nate export subsidy vehicles.
That brings me to the history of the
nomination. A while back, President
Trump nominated Scott Garrett, a
very well qualified, bright, and capable
guy, and an avowed reformist. He was a
skeptic about Ex-Im Bank but was
committed to executing his respon-
sibilities as President under the char-
ter and under the law but was going to
insist on reforms.
By the way, had Scott Garrett been
confirmed, Ex-Im would probably be up
and running now. But the proponents
of the Bank didn’t want the reforms,
apparently, so they scratched Scott
Garrett’s nomination.
Despite that, I continued to try to
find a reasonable way forward. One of
the things I proposed was confirming
Kim Reed as President. Let me say a
word about Kim. I think she is a very
capable person. She is very intelligent,
very knowledgeable, and has a terrific
reputation and great integrity. My pro-
posal was to confirm Kim Reed because
she has committed to the kinds of
meaningful reforms the Bank needs.
She and I and my staff walked
through six very specific categories of
reform. We did that privately in my of-
fice. We did that publicly at the Bank-
ing hearing. We talked about adding
transparency to how the Ex-Im Bank
operates. We talked about taxpayer
protections that would be implemented
to reduce the risks taxpayers currently
take. We agreed that we should move
in the direction of protecting domestic
companies, such as the example I gave
where Delta was put at a competitive
disadvantage against Air India. We
agreed we should encourage private fi-
nancing to be first in line rather than
the Ex-Im Bank. We agreed that we
should be cracking down on any bad ac-
tors. We also agreed that there should
be a mutual reduction in reliance on
credit export agencies globally.
On that basis, I was willing to con-
firm Kim Reed and give her a chance to
implement some of these reforms and
prove they are actually being imple-
mented, at which point I would support
restoring a quorum so that a reformed
Ex-Im would be back in business. But
that deal was blocked by proponents of
the Ex-Im Bank here in this body. It is
very hard to conclude anything other
than that those folks never want these
reforms to take place.
I am still open to working with the
new President when she is confirmed,
and the new Board. We have a reau-
thorization that is presumably on the
agenda for later this year. But I am
going to oppose all the nominees today
because we are going ahead and putting
the cart before the horse. We are re-
opening Ex-Im Bank on a full scale
without first implementing the re-
forms, and that is backward.
I appreciate the conversations I have
had with Kim Reed, and I trust that
she actually sincerely does want to im-
plement some of these reforms. I hope
she can. I look forward to working with
her to make sure that if we do, in fact,
go through a reauthorization process,
it codifies the reforms that require
codification. But I feel very strongly
that we are doing this backward. That
is the reason I am going to vote
against all the nominees today.
The Ex-Im Bank, unreformed, is an
example of crony capitalism that puts
U.S. taxpayers at risk and subsidizes
some pretty unsavory characters. I am
pretty disappointed that we are moving
ahead with this today. I hope that at
least we will be able to codify the nec-
essary reforms in the reauthorization.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from New Mexico.
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, thank
you for the recognition. It is good to
see you today.
I am going to be joined by a number
of my Senate colleagues to talk about
reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act. We have many
who are very concerned that we need to
move this reauthorization, so they will
be joining me here today.
The first chart we are putting up
here is of Hanna Harris, who is a mem-
ber of the Northern Cheyenne Tribe.
Here she is with her son just months
before she was brutally murdered on
the Northern Cheyenne Reservation.
Hanna was all of 21 years old, and her
son was only 10 months old. We now
honor Hanna and all murdered and in-
digenous women and girls each year on
Hanna’s birthday, May 5, as a national
day of awareness.
It is fitting to remember and honor
these women and girls, and it is crit-
ical that we understand the magnitude
of violence that Native women face.
Eighty-four percent of Native women
have experienced violence in their life-
time. That is four out of five. In some
Tribal communities, Native women are
murdered at rates more than 10 times
the national average—10 times. One
out of three Native women has been
raped.
Behind these statistics are thousands
of faces, thousands of lives disrupted,
shattered, and cut short—faces like
that of Ashley Loring Heavy Runner.
This is a photo of Ashley. Ashley was
an outgoing 20-year-old Native college
student during the summer of 2017
when she went missing on the Black-
feet Reservation in Montana. Last De-
cember, I heard firsthand about the
devastating impact of Ashley’s dis-
appearance when her sister, Kimberly
Loring Heavy Runner, came before the
Indian Affairs Committee to ask Con-
gress to take action. Kimberly told us:
We are going missing, we are being mur-
dered. I am here to stress to you . . . we are
loved and we are missed. We will no longer
be . . . invisible people . . . we have worth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.023 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2672 May 7, 2019
That is Kimberly talking.
By the end of 2017, the FBI had iden-
tified 5,600 additional cases of missing
Native women and girls. This number
is likely a very, very severe
undercount. This crisis is devastating
Native families across the country. It
is unacceptable.
Just last week, the Senate passed a
resolution remembering murdered and
missing indigenous women and girls,
and I thank Senator DAINES and other
Republicans for sponsoring this bipar-
tisan resolution. Now we must make
good on those words. We must walk the
walk. We must take bipartisan action
to end the cycle of violence, and we
should start by reauthorizing the Vio-
lence Against Women Act and
strengthening provisions to protect Na-
tive women.
I have been a strong proponent of
VAWA from the beginning, and I
pushed hard for the law’s passage in
1994 when I was New Mexico’s attorney
general. But it became clear early on
that VAWA’s provisions weren’t reach-
ing Tribal communities because of the
Tribal jurisdictional maze put in place
by a 1978 U.S. Supreme Court decision.
In Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian
Tribe, the Court held that Indian
Tribes cannot exercise criminal juris-
diction over non-Indians who commit
crimes on reservations. This ruling un-
dermined the sovereign right of Tribes
to enforce the law on Tribal lands. It
undercut public safety in Indian Coun-
try, and it let violent offenders escape
prosecution.
An astounding number of violent
crimes against Native women on res-
ervations are committed by non-Indi-
ans. According to the National Insti-
tute of Justice, 97 percent of Native
women who experience violence in
their lifetime have been victimized by
non-Indian perpetrators.
While Tribal authorities’ hands were
tied, Federal law enforcement authori-
ties weren’t addressing these cases ei-
ther. Investigations were not pursued
because the crimes took place in re-
mote locations. Federal prosecutors de-
clined to prosecute cases. Crimes
against Native women and children
were pushed to the back burner. The
inability of Tribes to protect their own
members was an inexcusable hole in
the law.
By the time the Senate took up
VAWA reauthorization in 2012 and 2013,
we could no longer ignore Oliphant. We
could no longer ignore that Oliphant
left Native women at risk. In the Sen-
ate, I fought to restore Tribes’ author-
ity to provide for the safety of their
members, and we ultimately reinstated
their authority to prosecute anyone
who commits domestic violence on a
reservation through VAWA 2013. Since
then, 18 Tribes have begun exercising
jurisdiction over domestic violence
crimes. There have been 143 arrests of
128 violent offenders with 74 convic-
tions to date. This is a real step in the
right direction.
With time and experience, Tribes
have seen there are still gaps that
must be closed to stop violence against
Native women. Tribes have identified
four changes Congress must make to
hold violent offenders accountable.
First, Tribal jurisdiction under
VAWA doesn’t extend to domestic vio-
lence against children. If a Native child
is caught up in the violence, as is too
often the case, Tribal law enforcement
can’t prosecute the offender. We have
to change that.
Second, VAWA applies only to do-
mestic violence. It doesn’t apply to
general cases of sexual assault, sex
trafficking, or stalking. Like other
types of violence, Native women face
higher levels of sexual violence than
other women in the United States. In
fact, of the Native women who have ex-
perienced violence, 56 percent have ex-
perienced sexual violence. Yet VAWA
2013 didn’t cover the entire range of
sexual violence directed toward Native
women. Congress must fix this.
Third, VAWA 2013 wasn’t clear
whether Tribes have jurisdiction over
attempted domestic violence. If a per-
petrator swings at his spouse and
misses, there is no crime until the next
time, when he lands a punch. We must
fix this loophole or Native women will
continue to be at risk.
Finally, VAWA doesn’t cover crimes
committed against Tribal law enforce-
ment officers charged with responding
to domestic violence. If an officer is re-
sponding to a domestic violence case
and he or she is assaulted, they aren’t
covered under the law, so that needs to
be fixed.
Domestic violence calls, as all of us
know, are some of the most dangerous
law enforcement responds to. Police of-
ficers, including Tribal officers, are as-
saulted when responding to disturbance
calls more than in any other cir-
cumstance. Yet Tribes can’t protect
their own officers. These gaps in VAWA
undermine the very purpose of the law
and put children, women, and police of-
ficers at great risk. We must remedy
this.
Senators MURKOWSKI, SMITH, and I
have introduced the Native Youth and
Tribal Officer Protection Act to ensure
Tribes can exercise jurisdiction to
prosecute crimes against children and
Tribal officers and attempted domestic
violence. The bipartisan bill is sup-
ported by 16 former U.S. attorneys ap-
pointed under Republican and Demo-
cratic administrations and the Indian
Law and Order Commission, a body of
Tribal public safety experts established
under the bipartisan Tribal Law and
Order Act. We have also introduced the
Justice for Native Survivors of Sexual
Violence Act, which makes sure that
Tribes have authority to prosecute sex-
ual assault, sex trafficking, and stalk-
ing crimes.
The House of Representatives already
passed these measures last month on a
bipartisan basis as part of the Violence
Against Women Act Reauthorization of
2019. It is now our turn to take action.
We cannot allow this bill to be buried
in the majority leader’s so-called legis-
lative graveyard, not when women’s
lives are literally at stake.
Friends, we must all agree it is long
past time to address violence against
women in Indian Country. I urge this
body to reauthorize VAWA and pass
the Native Youth and Tribal Officer
Protection Act and Justice for Native
Survivors Act. Let the families of
Hanna and Ashley and thousands of
other missing and murdered Native
women know that they are not invis-
ible, that they have worth, and that
they deserve justice.
I mentioned earlier that 16 U.S. at-
torneys, both Republican and Demo-
cratic, wrote to us about the Native
Youth and Tribal Officer Protection
Act. They wrote very eloquently about
what the situation is that we face
today. These are U.S. attorneys who
prosecuted in States that have Tribes.
They were trying to do everything they
could to bring justice to these situa-
tions. Their letter of support for S.
2233, the Native Youth and Tribal Offi-
cer Protection Act, reads of some of
the things here that I am going to
quote, which, I think, make very, very
poignant points about why we should
take up this legislation and pass it im-
mediately.
The Supreme Court’s 1978 decision in
Oliphant v. Suquamish severely limits
Tribal nations’ ability to prosecute
crimes committed against Indians by
non-Indians. Congress removed Federal
limits on the inherent authority of
Tribal governments to prosecute the
non-Indian domestic violence offenders
in the 2013 followup reauthorization.
Under current law, the Tribal justice
system has arresting and prosecuting
authority over a non-Indian domestic
violence offender, but it has no re-
course if that same offender commits a
crime against the responding Tribal
public safety officer.
U.S. attorneys’ offices with jurisdic-
tion often decline to prosecute a non-
Indian who commits a violent crime on
Tribal lands. The absence of Tribal
criminal jurisdiction over some non-In-
dian perpetrated crimes and low Fed-
eral prosecution rates for those crimes
contribute to the high rates of violence
against Native people, particularly
women and children who live on Tribal
lands.
Due to the experiences of the letter’s
signatories—the 16 former U.S. attor-
neys, Democratic and Republican—
they say public interest, safety, health,
and welfare all support the concept
that, if possible, crimes committed on
Tribal lands should be prosecuted by
the presiding Tribal government. These
former U.S. attorneys support the goal
of this legislation—to restore Tribal ju-
risdiction over crimes that have been
committed against Tribal police offi-
cers and children citizens of the Tribal
nations.
The need for Tribal jurisdiction over
crimes against Tribal law enforcement
is absolutely clear here. Under VAWA
2013 Tribal jurisdiction, Tribes cannot
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.025 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2673
May 7, 2019
hold defendants accountable for vio-
lence against officers who are enforc-
ing the law. This leaves arresting offi-
cers, court bailiffs, and corrections of-
ficers vulnerable. The Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians is an example of the
injustice here. It had one non-Indian
defendant who had hit and strangled
his girlfriend and, while in jail, had
stricken the correctional officer who
had been holding him after his arrest.
He had threatened to come back and—
this is his language—shoot up the res-
ervation. The Tribe referred the as-
sault and threat to Federal prosecu-
tors, who ultimately dismissed the
charges.
If we pass this legislation that has
come over to us from the House, the
Tribes in this circumstance would have
the ability to step in and do something
about this. They don’t have any option
today. If they get a declination, if
there will be no action taken on the
Federal side, they will not have the
ability to deal with crime and violence
on their reservation.
Let me talk a little bit about the
need for Tribal jurisdiction over crimes
against children. Fifty-eight percent of
incidents reported by the imple-
menting Tribes involve children. Ac-
cording to the Department of Justice,
Native children suffer exposure to vio-
lence at rates that are higher than any
other peer group in the United States.
The Pascua Yaqui Tribe, which was one
of the first five Tribes to implement
the VAWA 2013 authority, identified at
least 38 children involved as witnesses
and victims with its VAWA 2013 cases.
Clearly, when there is a domestic vio-
lence incident, one of the things that
needs to be done by law enforcement is
with regard to a woman’s being as-
saulted in the presence of a child. You
should allow the prosecuting authori-
ties to take that into consideration
and make it a part of the charge. With
the law we have today, that is not al-
lowed. So children are not protected.
In another example, of the defend-
ants and perpetrators who are known
violent and criminal offenders, many
defendants had run-ins with Tribal po-
lice for violence or criminal activity
prior to getting arrested. For example,
the Tulalip Tribe in Washington re-
ported that the 70 defendants it pros-
ecuted by using its VAWA 2013 author-
ity had had a total of 171 contacts with
Tribal police prior to their arrests. A
Tulalip Tribal member was assaulted
and raped by the father of her chil-
dren—a non-Indian who had had 19
prior contacts with the Tribal police.
VAWA 2013 allowed the Tribe to arrest
and successfully prosecute the man.
This is a good example of how VAWA
2013 has worked, but in all of these cir-
cumstances I have talked about, we
need to demand it—whether it is with a
law enforcement officer who is as-
saulted in the course of enforcing the
law or whether it is with a child who is
a part of the circumstances that in-
volve the prosecution.
I see that my good friend Senator
CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO is here on
the floor. She is a very active member
of the Indian Affairs Committee. I
know she cares passionately about
these missing and murdered indigenous
women and children. I would ask to
have a colloquy with Senators who
show up, but I will be here on the floor.
So don’t worry.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
let me say to my colleague, the rank-
ing member of the Senate’s Indian Af-
fairs Committee—with whom, by the
way, I know I have 2 more years—that
I am so going to miss working with
him. I appreciate his passion, particu-
larly on days like today on which he is
highlighting issues that affect so many
of our communities across this coun-
try, particularly when it comes to our
Tribal communities and Native com-
munities.
Thank you for always being at the
forefront, my friend.
This past Sunday, many Americans
joined thousands of survivors and sup-
porters in solidarity across the country
to honor the National Day of Aware-
ness for Missing and Murdered Native
Women and Girls. Organizers hosted
rallies and benefit runs; communities
honored loved ones lost; and supporters
posted on social media with the
hashtag #NotInvisible. For many, this
was a day to raise awareness about the
alarming number of murdered and
missing indigenous women, but for our
Tribal communities, a day of aware-
ness only scratches the surface of what
is needed to address this epidemic.
Indian Country needs action. That
starts right here in this Chamber, and
it can start today. Right now, the Sen-
ate is considering three pieces of legis-
lation—the reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act and my bi-
partisan bills, Savanna’s Act and the
Not Invisible Act—which will help to
combat this crisis. Passing these bills
is critical in protecting the lives of Na-
tive women and girls.
The numbers speak for themselves.
More than 80 percent of Native women
will experience physical, sexual, or
psychological violence in their life-
times, often in the form of domestic or
intimate partner violence. One in three
Native American women has been
raped or has experienced an attempted
rape, and murder is the third leading
cause of death for Native women and
girls. In addition, Native American
women who experience sexual or do-
mestic violence are far more likely to
fall victim to sex trafficking.
Even more distressing is the fact
that we likely don’t know the full
scope of the problem because of under-
reporting. In fact, nearly half of the
Tribal law enforcement agencies sur-
veyed believe human trafficking is oc-
curring on Tribal land beyond what has
been brought to their attention. Be-
cause of a lack of coordination with
Federal Agencies and because of sparse
resources and limited jurisdiction in
which to prosecute crimes, women
across Indian Country are dying and
disappearing, and far too many of their
cases go unreported, unsolved, or un-
touched by law enforcement.
This is unbelievable. We must act.
Yet there is no targeted Federal plan
or strategy to address this epidemic
even as it becomes increasingly clear
that we are failing to uphold our trust
responsibility and, even more so, that
we are failing Native women and their
families.
As former Nevada attorney general, I
have heard directly from survivors,
family members, Tribal leaders, and
law enforcement about the need for im-
mediate action and Federal support to
address violence in Native commu-
nities. Congress must take concrete ac-
tion to help support the Tribal govern-
ments, organizations, and law enforce-
ment members who are on the
frontlines every day.
The House of Representatives has al-
ready taken an important first step
this year by reauthorizing the Violence
Against Women Act. This legislation
will protect Native women from the ef-
fects of domestic violence, which is an
early indicator of nearly half of all
murder cases involving women nation-
wide. I know it will have a positive im-
pact because, as attorney general, I
saw the impact it had on our Tribal
communities in the State of Nevada.
The reauthorization of VAWA also
gives Tribal governments additional
and much needed jurisdictional power
to directly address violent crime
against Tribal members on reserva-
tions.
My Democratic colleagues and I are
committed to fighting for the full reau-
thorization of the Violence Against
Women Act and especially for the im-
portant criminal jurisdictional expan-
sions it gives Tribal law enforcement
to help get violent offenders off the
streets.
We can’t stop there. We need to shine
a light on the staggering number of
missing and murdered indigenous
women and girls and ensure that we
understand the full scope of the prob-
lem. That is why, with my colleague
Senator LISA MURKOWSKI, I have also
introduced Savanna’s Act and the Not
Invisible Act—both bipartisan bills.
They are designed to work to directly
combat the crisis of missing, murdered,
and trafficked Native women, and they
will give our law enforcement and com-
munities the support they need to pro-
tect our Native women and girls. These
bills help in stopping cases from falling
through the cracks.
Specifically, Savanna’s Act works to
ensure that Indian Country has access
to accurate, up-to-date crime databases
so State, local, and Tribal law enforce-
ment can implement guidelines for re-
sponding to relevant criminal cases.
The Not Invisible Act ensures the
Federal Government works across
Agencies to best use its resources when
addressing violence against Native
women while recognizing the unique
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.026 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2674 May 7, 2019
challenges that are faced within Tribal
communities. The bill also creates an
advisory committee to examine ways
to reduce violent crime, sexual assault,
and trafficking in Tribal communities.
These bills, along with the reauthor-
ization of the Violence Against Women
Act, are critical to keeping Native
women and girls safe.
My home State of Nevada is home to
many Tribal communities. These com-
munities are full of mothers, daugh-
ters, sisters, and friends whose lives
are vibrant and full of potential. I will
not let these women become statistics.
It is time to take action, and I am
committed to doing all I can in the
Senate to fight for justice for Native
American women and girls.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I thank
Senator CORTEZ MASTO for her talk
today. I can tell that she is very pas-
sionate about this issue. Both of us
were State attorneys general from
Western States. We have significant
Native American populations, and we
are very familiar with the jurisdiction
issue.
I have seen Senator CORTEZ MASTO
question many times in the committee
on the issue of jurisdiction. And what I
am talking about there—you have
Tribal jurisdiction, and then you have
Federal jurisdiction, and many times
there is some State jurisdiction. So
when the Supreme Court in 1978 came
out with a ruling in the Oliphant case,
they created a big hole, and for almost
30 years, there was a zone that really
wasn’t being prosecuted. Senator COR-
TEZ MASTO is very familiar with this.
Because of that, we had kind of a situa-
tion in Indian Country where, without
enforcement, I think some of this vio-
lence grew.
I am sure that ever since Senator
CORTEZ MASTO has been in law enforce-
ment, she has seen this problem and
advocated for changes to it, and we
have seen dramatic changes with
VAWA 2013, which allowed prosecution
to take place. I don’t know whether
any of Senator CORTEZ MASTO’s Tribes
within Nevada took cases and initiated
things, but I think that across Indian
Country, it is fair to say that there was
very, very extensive effort. I think
there have been a number of arrests—
143, I think; 74 convictions—and things
have really been moving along.
Has that been your experience in
terms of watching what has happened
both at the State level and the Federal
level since 2013? Have we been making
some progress here?
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
to my colleague from New Mexico, ab-
solutely. Let me just say I was attor-
ney general in 2013 when you reauthor-
ized VAWA and you included the Tribal
provisions in there. There are about 27
Tribal reservations and communities in
the State of Nevada, and I can guar-
antee you they were beneficiaries of
what you did to prevent and address vi-
olence in Tribal communities through
VAWA.
I know that because I actually
chaired the Domestic Violence Preven-
tion Council in the State of Nevada. On
my council—which, as the attorney
general, came through my office—there
were Tribal members. I also know that
the VAWA funding that comes into the
State of Nevada came through my of-
fice as the attorney general. So we
made sure that all of our communities
that were impacted by domestic vio-
lence in particular—any type of vio-
lence—had the benefit of this money
that was coming in.
I can guarantee you, working with
my Tribal communities as attorney
general, it was a benefit. That is why I
am fighting now for that reauthoriza-
tion and that funding to continue for
our Tribal communities. There is no
doubt in my mind that I saw the bene-
fits in Nevada, and we can see that now
across the country. I am really kind of
baffled why it is not in this provision
here. This really should be a bipartisan
issue that we all focus on.
So that is my fight. I have seen the
benefits, and I know the impact it has
on our Tribal communities.
Let me just say this: We need to ad-
dress any type of violence in our Tribal
communities. And I thank you for
highlighting this because it is not just
the domestic violence; it is the issue of
missing and murdered Native women
and girls. My concern there is, we do
not have enough data that tells us
what is going on. The data we do report
at the Federal level is underreported. I
know the last data that we had was in
2016. That showed about 5,700 missing
Native girls and women. That is under-
reported. But what we don’t know is
why they have gone missing.
I have worked very hard to address
sex trafficking prevention in the State
of Nevada. This is happening across the
country. There is no doubt in my mind
that some of these Native women and
girls are victims of sex trafficking, but
we do not know it because of the chal-
lenges in capturing that data and then
doing something about it at the Fed-
eral level. That is what I am fighting
for. That is what my colleague from
New Mexico is fighting for.
I so appreciate the opportunity to
talk about this on the floor today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I, too,
want to thank the Senator from New
Mexico for organizing today’s effort on
this very important issue.
I rise today to join my colleagues in
really shining a spotlight on a crisis
that has brought terror and pain to
Tribal communities across my home
State of Washington and the Nation for
far too long. It is an alarm that has
been sounding, actually, for genera-
tions and one that has impacted lit-
erally countless families, robbing them
of their mothers and grandmothers,
their sisters, their aunts, their daugh-
ters.
‘‘Family of missing Native woman
demands answers in Wapato.’’
In Yakima County:
A year after her body was found, officials
are now officially calling the death of this
young woman a homicide.
A year after.
In Toppenish:
16-year-old . . . disappeared after Christ-
mas Eve in 1971. Her sister refuses to give up
the search.
Those are just a few of the headlines
that have appeared in news outlets in
Washington State within just the last
few months highlighting the scope of
the crisis of missing and murdered in-
digenous women and girls in our com-
munities.
For far too long, our Nation has ig-
nored or misclassified the terrible sto-
ries of violence against women and
girls in Tribal communities, who have
been reported missing or murdered at
much higher rates than their non-Na-
tive counterparts or, worse, not re-
ported at all.
It is a crisis that is particularly sa-
lient in Washington State, which ranks
second among States with the highest
number of reported cases of missing
and murdered Native women. Even
worse, Seattle ranks No. 1 among cities
with the highest number of cases. But
it isn’t just Seattle; it is the Yakama
Nation, Spokane, Tacoma. The epi-
demic of missing and murdered Native
women isn’t an urban problem or a
rural problem. It is not an issue just
for western Washington or eastern
Washington. This is an alarming trend
that is devastating communities every
day throughout Washington State and
across the country, one for which Na-
tive women and girls are paying the ul-
timate price.
Now, thanks to the determination of
Native women who have spent years
raising their voices to bring attention
to this tragic pattern of injustice, we
are beginning to develop the tools and
resources we need to combat this epi-
demic.
I am very grateful for Native leaders
and organizations like the Seattle In-
dian Health Board, which last Novem-
ber released a landmark new report—
the first of its kind—on the crisis of
missing and murdered indigenous
women, collecting important data and
insights. It is a major step toward re-
moving a significant barrier that has
burdened efforts to end the decades-
long epidemic, but there is so much
more we need to do to keep Native
women and girls safe and seek justice.
As important as it is to bring aware-
ness to this devastating crisis, more
than awareness, we need action. Con-
gress has to wake up to the crisis af-
fecting Native women and recognize
the Federal Government’s responsi-
bility and role in ending it, and that
includes improving and reauthorizing
the Violence Against Women Act—a
critical law which for years has worked
to help communities decrease assaults
against women and girls and which Re-
publicans let lapse earlier this year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:28 May 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.027 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2675
May 7, 2019
This law has long garnered bipartisan
support. In fact, we were able to come
together just 6 years ago to pass an
even stronger version of the law that
strengthened protections and resources
for our Tribal communities. I know
there are champions for this issue on
both sides of the aisle, Members who
have listened to Native voices in their
own States and understand why we
have to equip Tribal communities with
the tools and resources they need to
protect Tribal members and hold oth-
ers accountable when they cause harm
or bring violence. There is no excuse to
not get this done. We have done it be-
fore; we can do it again.
Now that VAWA has passed the
House, know that I am going to keep
working with my colleagues to push
the Senate to get it over the finish
line. In the meantime, I and others will
continue lifting up the stories of Na-
tive women and girls, as well as Tribal
leaders and members.
As a partner to Washington State’s
Tribal communities here in the Senate,
I am going to keep fighting to
strengthen Federal support for Tribal
priorities and listening to Native
voices as well, as we all work together
to end the tragedy of this senseless epi-
demic.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to take
action to address the crisis of missing
and murdered indigenous women and
girls in this country. It is a crisis that
we need to address now, and we can do
this in the Senate by updating the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, which ex-
pired earlier this year.
I would like to thank my colleagues
who have been able to join with us
today to speak on this important topic
led by Senator UDALL, and it is wonder-
ful to be here today with Senator MUR-
RAY as well.
Last month, I had an opportunity to
lead a roundtable at the Minnesota
State Capitol to discuss the crisis of
missing and murdered indigenous
women. This is a crisis that affects
Tribal nations all over my State, as
well as urban indigenous communities.
I was there with Lt. Gov. Peggy Flana-
gan, who is the highest ranking Native
woman elected in an executive branch
role here in the United States. It was
wonderful to be there with her and all
of the advocates who were present as
well.
At the roundtable, I heard about sur-
vivors who have experienced traf-
ficking and sexual violence who feel in-
visible. I heard from Native advocates
and families of victims who feel they
are not being listened to by local law
enforcement, and they also understand
that there is a lack of knowledge about
cultural and traditional practices that
is impeding the efforts to end this cri-
sis and to get help and healing to Na-
tive women who have been victimized.
In Minnesota, I hear time and again
from leaders of Tribal nations—from
Red Lake and White Earth to Bois
Forte, Mille Lacs, and Prairie Island—
who speak of violent crimes on their
land, including the crisis of missing
and murdered indigenous women. I
hear from some of these leaders about
how they are unable to take action
against the nonmember offenders who
are committing these crimes.
According to the National Institute
of Justice, 84 percent of Native women
have experienced violence in their life-
times—84 percent—and over half of Na-
tive women and more than one in four
men have experienced sexual violence.
Among those, almost all—96 percent of
women and 89 percent of men—were
victimized by a non-Tribal member.
Few of these survivors end up seeing
justice because what is happening is
that the Federal Government is failing
to address the scourge of violence
against Native communities.
Raising awareness of this crisis is im-
portant, and that is what we are work-
ing to do today, but there are several
bipartisan measures in the Senate that
would take significant steps to address
it. We must take action, and I am here
today to talk about some of the things
we can do.
In April, the House passed a Violence
Against Women Act reauthorization
bill with many strong Tribal protec-
tions to address the crisis of missing
and murdered indigenous women, in-
cluding my bill, with Republican Sen-
ator LISA MURKOWSKI, to help Tribes
seek and get justice for their members
and for survivors.
Our bill, which is called the Justice
for Native Survivors of Sexual Vio-
lence Act, expands upon the landmark
special domestic violence jurisdiction
granted to Tribes during the last re-
write of the Violence Against Women
Act in 2013.
Our bill would allow Tribes to pros-
ecute cases of sexual assault, traf-
ficking, and stalking, among other
crimes of sexual violence, against non-
member offenders. Think about what
this means today. If you are a non-
member and you commit a crime of
sexual violence against a Tribal mem-
ber, the Tribe, which is often in the
best position to follow up on, inves-
tigate, and prosecute that crime, is
currently unable to do that.
The bill that I am working on with
Senator MURKOWSKI would fix that
problem in the Violence Against
Women Act. Without this jurisdiction,
Tribes are unable to pursue charges
against all offenders who commit
crimes of sexual violence on Tribal
land. Instead, those offenders go large-
ly unpunished, as Federal courts fail to
investigate or to prosecute these
crimes. Passing our bill would go a
long way toward deterring violence
against Native women in Indian Coun-
try and holding offenders accountable
when it happens.
I call on the Senate to take bold ac-
tion to address the crisis of violence
against Native communities by taking
up the reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act and passing this
legislation as soon as possible.
Any reauthorization bill must in-
clude strong Tribal protections, such
as our Justice for Native Survivors
bill, so that survivors can begin to heal
and we can prevent violence from hap-
pening in the first place. Survivors and
families of victims deserve this at the
very least.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, thank
you for the recognition. I just want to
say to my colleague from Minnesota
that we very much appreciate her ef-
forts on the Senate Indian Affairs Com-
mittee. She has been a great member of
the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.
On all of these issues that are so press-
ing, whether it is violence or the lack
of education or budgets that aren’t
adequate to support so many activities
out in Indian Country, she has just
been a terrific advocate. I know that
she has followed this issue very closely
in the years she has worked in govern-
ment.
One of the things that is really clear
is we have given the Tribes an oppor-
tunity—and I know Senator SMITH
knows this very well—to undertake law
enforcement in their communities as a
result of VAWA 2013. Now is our chance
to improve upon that, to lower the
level of violence in Native American
communities.
I yield to the Senator to talk about
what she has seen as a State-elected of-
ficial—again, just as a citizen in Min-
nesota—to make sure that laws that
have been passed are working well and
working better, and there is a lot more
we need to do.
I yield to Senator SMITH from Min-
nesota.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, first, I
just want to say, as Senator UDALL
knows, I was born in New Mexico, so I
have a strong affinity for his wonderful
State, my home State—my original
home State—and I learned so much
about the amazing cultural assets of
indigenous people and Native American
people in the Southwest.
When I moved to Minnesota and I had
an opportunity to get to know Min-
nesota’s 11 sovereign Tribal Nations,
that was sort of my foundation for that
work. When I became aware of how Na-
tive women, who were so often the vic-
tims of sexual violence, are literally
invisible in the criminal justice sys-
tem, I was just really horrified.
First, notice this: As Senator UDALL
and I were talking about this issue
with many others in the Indian Affairs
Committee, I became aware that there
are thousands and thousands of women
who have been reported missing, yet
the Justice Department has on their
big list only about 100 of them. Lit-
erally, these women are invisible.
In the roundtable that I had with
Lieutenant Governor Flanagan last
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:21 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.029 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2676 May 7, 2019
week and in other conversations I have
had, I have heard personal stories so
many times of women, like Savanna
Greywind, who are murdered in terrible
and violent ways and don’t end up
ever—their family never has the oppor-
tunity to feel the sense of justice and
healing that you have from knowing
that the perpetrator of this terrible vi-
olence has been brought to justice.
I am just going to—I would like to
tell one story about a woman whom I
spoke with in Saint Paul whose daugh-
ter was murdered in January of 2018.
To this day, she still awaits the release
of her daughter’s body because of
mixups and snafus in the system. Imag-
ine what that would be like. This is
just one example of how Native women
in the criminal justice system don’t
get the dignity and the respect they de-
serve.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, one of
the issues that has been highlighted by
the two very capable Senators who are
here on the floor, Senator CORTEZ
MASTO and Senator SMITH, is that all
of us—and I know that the Presiding
Officer from the State of Utah also has
many Tribes. All of us need to work in
a very conscientious and deliberative
way to try to make sure that we are
able to do everything we can to bring
forward the effort of the Federal Gov-
ernment to lower the violence level in
Native American communities. The
thing I saw over and over again in the
State of New Mexico as I dealt with
Tribes and then at the national level—
I worked in the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for several years as an assistant U.S.
attorney. I saw over and over again
that we were unable to prosecute some
cases, but we were well aware that the
Tribes, if they were given the author-
ity, would be able to move forward be-
cause they were closer to the cir-
cumstances and would be able to do the
job. That is why it is so important that
16 former U.S. attorneys who have ju-
risdiction across the United States—
full jurisdictions of an area—have
stepped forward and said that they
really feel that these pieces of legisla-
tion that Senator CORTEZ MASTO, Sen-
ator SMITH, Senator KLOBUCHAR, and
many others are sponsoring and that
the House has actually sent over to us
are ready to go.
I see my good friend Senator TESTER
is here. The vote is going to take place
in a few minutes, so I am going to yield
the floor so that Senator TESTER can
speak on these very important issues.
He is a great member of the Com-
mittee, and I always enjoy hearing
from him because he is always right on
point.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I think
that might have been a hint to make it
quick. Is that right, Senator UDALL?
Mr. UDALL. Take your time.
Mr. TESTER. All right, I will. Look,
this is an issue that is critically impor-
tant to this country. I think when peo-
ple hear about it, they are astounded
because this is a crisis we don’t hear
much about.
According to the National Institute
of Justice—listen to these statistics—
more than 80 percent of Native women
have experienced violence, almost half
within the last year. On many reserva-
tions, Native American women face
murder rates up to 10 times the na-
tional average. The majority of this vi-
olence is either sexual or domestic in
nature, and too much of it goes unre-
ported and unprosecuted. That is why I
have taken a three-pronged approach
to address this crisis.
No. 1, we need to raise awareness; No.
2, we need to empower the Tribes
around this country; and No. 3, this
body needs to implement some solu-
tions that will help those Tribes ad-
dress this issue. But first we must ac-
knowledge that there is an epidemic,
an epidemic that—if we acknowledge
it—we can fix.
We have made some progress on this
front in the last few years. Since 2016,
we have introduced resolutions declar-
ing May 5 the National Day of Aware-
ness for Missing and Murdered Native
Women and Girls. We introduced this
resolution in honor of Hanna Harris, a
Northern Cheyenne Tribal member who
was murdered in July of 2013, and thou-
sands of other voices that have been si-
lenced. We introduced this resolution
to underscore the urgency of address-
ing domestic violence and sexual as-
sault in Indian Country. We introduced
this resolution to amplify the voice of
the people who are on the vanguard,
fighting for change—folks like Briana
Lamb, a Missoula-based activist, who
was my guest at this year’s State of
the Union Address, or Kim Loring, who
testified in front of the Indian Affairs
Committee back in December about
the disappearance of her sister, Ashley
Loring Heavy Runner, from Browning,
MT.
Increasing awareness isn’t where we
end. We need to act, and we need to
find and implement solutions. That is
why, after leading a Senate hearing on
the MMIW crisis in December, I drafted
and introduced the Studying the Miss-
ing and Murdered Indian Crisis Act.
This bill directs the GAO to conduct a
full review of how Federal Agencies re-
spond to reports of missing and mur-
dered Native Americans and rec-
ommend solutions based on their find-
ings.
The House has already passed this
bill, along with the rest of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act,
more than a month ago. The Senate
has yet to take up this package. So in-
stead of waiting around for Senator
MCCONNELL to do his job and bring this
bill up for a vote, I reached out to the
GAO directly yesterday. A group of 10
Democrats and 7 Republicans wrote to
the GAO, asking them to conduct this
study, and the GAO agreed. But we
can’t keep waiting around for the Sen-
ate to actually do its job and legislate.
We need to act, and we need to pass the
Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act so that we can start finding
and implementing solutions—solutions
to problems like Tribal jurisdiction.
Before 2013, the jurisdictional maze
surrounding these crimes made it near-
ly impossible for Native authorities to
prosecute non-Native criminals, de-
spite the fact that almost 90 percent of
the Native survivors had experienced
violence at the hands of non-Native of-
fenders. When we reauthorized the Vio-
lence Against Women Act back in 2013,
we gave Tribal governments the ability
to arrest and prosecute non-Native of-
fenders for sexual and domestic crimes.
Since March of 2015, 18 Tribes have
used this authority to arrest approxi-
mately 150 offenders. As of today, more
than half of those arrested resulted in
convictions, and many are still pending
trial. Fort Peck is one of the Tribes on
the vanguard, arresting 18 offenders
over the last 3 years—offenders who
had gotten away with their abuse for
far, far too long.
This year’s violence reauthorization
act will build upon that 2013 bill and
extend Tribal jurisdiction even further,
empowering Tribes to combat this cri-
sis head-on. That is why the Senate
needs to pass this critical legislation
and start taking up dozens of other
bills that we have introduced to com-
bat this crisis—bills like Savanna’s
Act, which will improve information
sharing between the Federal, State,
and Tribal law enforcement agencies
and establish better response protocols
for cases of missing people or the Not
Invisible Act, a bipartisan bill we re-
cently introduced that would create an
advisory committee to improve on how
Federal law enforcement responds to
cases of missing, murdered, and traf-
ficked persons. Sure, it is nice to hold
hearings and to write letters, but noth-
ing can really happen unless we do our
job.
Take funding, for example. We
worked hard to secure a 5-percent set-
aside for Indian Country in the Crime
Victims Fund this year. That is $168
million that Tribes can now use to pre-
vent violence and support survivors
across Indian Country. But this set-
aside disappears next year if we don’t
pass the SURVIVE Act to make this
funding permanent.
I hope that everybody in the Senate,
including the majority, will finally get
behind the Violence Against Women
Act and help move these other bills for-
ward also. Together, we can find solu-
tions to this crisis and we can support
survivors and we can bring their assail-
ants to justice, but we can’t do it if
Congress doesn’t act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:21 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.031 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2677
May 7, 2019
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Under the previous order and
pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays
before the Senate the pending cloture
motion, which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kimberly A. Reed, of West Vir-
ginia, to be President of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States for a term expir-
ing January 20, 2021.
Mitch McConnell, Lindsey Graham,
Kevin Cramer, Mike Rounds, Roy
Blunt, Richard Burr, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tim Scott, Jerry Moran,
John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Lisa Mur-
kowski, Roger F. Wicker, Lamar Alex-
ander, Rob Portman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Kimberly A. Reed, of West Virginia,
to be President of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States for a term
expiring January 20, 2021, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 82,
nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 96 Ex.]
YEAS—82
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—17
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Shelby
Toomey
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Murkowski
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 82, the nays are 17.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States for
a term expiring January 20, 2023.
Mitch McConnell, Lindsey Graham,
Kevin Cramer, Mike Rounds, Roy
Blunt, Richard Burr, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tim Scott, Jerry Moran,
John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Lisa Mur-
kowski, Roger F. Wicker, Lamar Alex-
ander, Rob Portman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States for a term expiring Jan-
uary 20, 2023, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
This is a 10-minute vote.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 74,
nays 24, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 97 Ex.]
YEAS—74
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—24
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Gillibrand
Grassley
Harris
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Lankford
Lee
Markey
Merkley
Paul
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Shelby
Toomey
Warren
Young
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Murkowski
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 74, the nays are 24.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States for
a term expiring January 20, 2021.
Mitch McConnell, Lindsey Graham,
Kevin Cramer, Mike Rounds, Roy
Blunt, Richard Burr, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tim Scott, Jerry Moran,
John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Lisa Mur-
kowski, Roger F. Wicker, Lamar Alex-
ander, Rob Portman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States for a term expiring Jan-
uary 20, 2021, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 79,
nays 19, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 98 Ex.]
YEAS—79
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.034 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2678 May 7, 2019
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—19
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Shelby
Sullivan
Toomey
Young
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Murkowski
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 79, and the nays are
19.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Judith DelZoppo
Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States for a
term expiring January 20, 2021.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATURAL GAS FLARING
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I
would like to take a few moments to
speak on an issue that, as you know, is
important to American families all
across the country.
Hardworking Americans long for
cheap and efficient sources of energy
for their homes, for their businesses,
and for their schools, and one of the
answers—not the only answer, but one
of the answers—to this dilemma is
clean-burning natural gas.
Natural gas is an abundant energy
source that, unfortunately, in some
cases is being squandered. We can do a
better job of getting the fuel to con-
sumers. In fact, we waste too much of
this useable fuel source through a proc-
ess known as natural gas flaring. Nat-
ural gas flaring is a practice where the
natural gas is intentionally burned off
at a drill site.
What I can happily report, however,
is that President Trump and his admin-
istration have begun to take the nec-
essary steps to address the underlying
causes for this inexcusable waste.
Just last month, President Trump
signed a pair of executive orders to ex-
pedite the construction of pipelines
that will allow oil and natural gas to
be safely and economically transported
from drill sites to end users.
The President took the courageous
first step in addressing a problem that
has been present for far, far too long,
and I am talking, of course, about the
lack of infrastructure. The lack of in-
frastructure not only chips away at the
great economic benefits our country
receives thanks to our drilling boom,
but without pipelines and other means
of transport, processing, and storage,
the cheaper and cleaner burning nat-
ural gas is too often wasted—natural
gas, mind you, that could be powering
businesses, schools, and even tens of
millions of homes across the United
States.
I would also like to note that I would
be remiss if I didn’t mention the envi-
ronmental benefits of natural gas. Sim-
ply put, natural gas is an environ-
mentally friendly fuel source. This
abundant fuel is not only incredibly ef-
ficient, with a 92-percent energy effi-
ciency, but the use of natural gas re-
duces carbon emissions as well. When
compared to other fossil fuel sources,
burning natural gas results in far fewer
pollutants such as carbon monoxide,
nitrogen oxide, nonmethane organic
gas, and carbon dioxide. In fact, de-
pending on the pollutant, using natural
gas can mean a reduction in carbon
emissions of up to 90 percent—90 per-
cent—in some cases.
As our drilling boom continues in
America, by implementing greater di-
rect use of natural gas, we can cut
thousands and thousands of tons of car-
bon emissions from our atmosphere
every year, and these are numbers that
we should all be able to get behind.
Ever since the advent of hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling, we
have been able to extract crude oil
from deposits that we not only didn’t
think we could ever reach but from de-
posits we didn’t even know existed
until a few years ago.
American ingenuity is truly an amaz-
ing thing, and that American inven-
tiveness and perseverance have led the
United States in becoming the world’s
leader in oil production. Did you ever
think America would lead the entire
world in oil production?
Unfortunately, the infrastructure to
support this boom has lagged. When
drilling for oil, it is not an a la carte
menu. Once the drill reaches the de-
sired deposit and begins pumping the
targeted crude oil to the surface, what
is also brought to the surface alongside
the crude oil is natural gas. You simply
cannot drill for shale oil and not ex-
tract natural gas.
The problem, however, is while we
should be looking at this phenomenon
as a net positive—one drill extracting
two sources of energy—far too often
this natural gas byproduct is wasted
because the infrastructure is simply
not there to move the large quantity of
natural gas to consumers. In one of our
Nation’s busiest oil fields—perhaps the
busiest, at least operating in America
today—the Permian Basin in the great
State of Texas and the great State of
New Mexico, our shale drillers have
long complained that they have no way
to move natural gas to the market be-
cause there simply aren’t enough nat-
ural gas pipelines. Adding to the di-
lemma is the fact that not only is
there a severe lack of pipelines, there
is a severe lack of alternative transpor-
tation options as well. When it comes
to transporting oil and natural gas, we
have four alternatives: pipeline, train,
truck, and boat—pipeline, train, truck,
and boat. Until President Trump
signed his Executive orders last
month—one requiring the Transpor-
tation Department to allow liquefied
natural gas to be shipped via special-
ized rail and tanker trucks—too much
of the natural gas extracted had no
way of getting to open markets. In the
Permian Basin alone—remember in
Texas and New Mexico—about 3 per-
cent of the natural gas that comes to
the surface with the oil is flared. That
means it is just burned off. It is wast-
ed.
Now, 3 percent may not initially
sound like a lot, but when you run the
numbers, it becomes clear that we are
wasting a vast amount of money and a
huge source of energy. There is so
much oil being extracted in the Per-
mian Basin alone that over $1 million
worth of natural gas is burned away,
flared, wasted every day; $1 million
worth of natural gas—a relatively
clean source of energy, better for our
environment—is burned away every
single day. To put that in perspective,
the entire daily energy needs of Mon-
tana or New Hampshire could be met
with just the gas that is flared in 1 day
in the Permian Basin. A further look
at the numbers suggests that by the
end of 2018 alone, so much natural gas
was burned off in the Permian Basin
that the entire residential energy
needs of Texas for the year could have
been met—the entire State of Texas.
The problem is likely only going to
get worse. The Permian Basin is far
from the only area in which flaring oc-
curs today in our country. Just ac-
counting for the month of October this
past year in North Dakota, it was re-
ported that the amount of gas flared or
burned off or wasted was enough to
heat 4.25 million homes. The amount of
natural gas flared, burned, wasted for
the month of October, just in North
Dakota, would have heated 4.25 million
homes. This has to change. We simply
cannot continue to sit by as millions of
dollars are literally burned off every
day into the atmosphere.
I thank President Trump. He took
some great initial steps in trying to
solve the wastefulness inherent in flar-
ing from speeding up the construction
of much needed pipelines to ordering
increased use of specifically designed
trains and tanker trucks. The Amer-
ican people will have far more access
to this abundant and ever-present fuel
source for their homes, for their busi-
nesses, and for their schools. There is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.019 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2679
May 7, 2019
still a long way to go—a long way to
go. Additional miles of pipeline and
specialized train cars are just the be-
ginning. I believe we can do better—
much better, in fact—than simply sit-
ting idly by as we watch good fuel
being burned off into the night sky.
(Ms. MCSALLY assumed the Chair.)
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
today I wish to speak in support of in-
cluding provisions in any reauthoriza-
tion of the Violence Against Women
Act that would ensure Tribal govern-
ments can prosecute heinous crimes on
their lands.
When Congress last reauthorized the
Violence Against Women Act, also
known as VAWA, in 2013, we made his-
toric advancements to address domes-
tic violence on Tribal lands. Those im-
portant steps must be preserved, but
we must also fix gaps in the law that
the last reauthorization left open.
These gaps allow crimes against chil-
dren, the elderly, and law enforcement
to essentially go unpunished.
As I have mentioned before, I support
H.R. 1585, the bill passed by the House
to reauthorize VAWA. One of the rea-
sons I support that bill is because it ad-
dresses those gaps. Tribes should be
able to address violent crimes that
happen on their lands and to their
most vulnerable populations.
According to a 2016 Justice Depart-
ment report, ‘‘more than four in five
American Indian and Alaska Native
women have experienced violence in
their lifetime.’’ That is disturbing. The
report also found that 56 percent have
experienced sexual violence; 56 percent
have experienced physical violence at
the hands of an intimate partner; and
49 percent have been stalked.
For me, these numbers are even more
upsetting because California has the
largest Native American population in
the United States. There are almost
700,000 Native Americans living in Cali-
fornia, which has 107 federally recog-
nized and 50 unrecognized Tribes.
We must continue to respect Tribal
sovereignty, to advance the very core
of what sovereignty means: the right of
Tribes to exercise dominion and juris-
diction over appalling crimes that
occur on Tribal land. For many years,
Tribal governments were unable to
prosecute crimes committed by non-In-
dians on Tribal lands. Thankfully, that
changed when Congress reauthorized
VAWA in 2013.
The 2013 reauthorization of VAWA al-
lowed Tribes to exercise their sov-
ereign powers to prosecute, convict,
and sentence both Indians and non-In-
dians who assault Indian spouses or
dating partners. In other words, Tribes
were finally able to prosecute anyone
who committed domestic violence
against an Indian on Indian land. These
measures were not only necessary;
they worked.
In just 5 years, under these new laws,
there were 142 arrests, 74 convictions,
and 24 more cases pending. These
charges were processed through Tribal
courts that provided the requisite due
process protections under our Constitu-
tion. In fact, not a single conviction
was overturned because of a lack of due
process. We must now build on that
success.
The VAWA reauthorization the
House passed is a strong bill. I would
note that it passed on a significant bi-
partisan basis, with a vote of 263–158
and 33 Republicans supporting it. This
was even in the face of an active oppo-
sition campaign conducted by the Na-
tional Rifle Association.
But importantly, one of the reasons
the House bill is a strong bill is be-
cause of its Tribal protections. For ex-
ample, the House bill expands jurisdic-
tion over non-Indians for crimes
against children, elders, and law en-
forcement.
We have a duty to prevent child
abuse and elder abuse wherever they
occur. It is also only right that Tribes
be able to prosecute attacks on law en-
forcement officers. The people who pro-
tect the public deserve protection as
well.
These advancements ensure that
Tribes are able to address acts of vio-
lence, while respecting Tribal sov-
ereignty. We should welcome the op-
portunity to continue to build on our
past successes. I look forward to work-
ing with my colleague Senator ERNST
on these provisions and hope other
Senators with significant stake in this
area will join us.
There are several other provisions
that I believe should be included in a
VAWA reauthorization. Chief among
those is keeping guns out of the hands
of domestic abusers. I plan to speak
about those provisions at a later date,
but I mention them now because I be-
lieve that we must have a comprehen-
sive approach to addressing domestic
violence in this country.
Simply put, all of the different parts
of VAWA are linked. For instance, en-
suring Tribal governments can pros-
ecute domestic violence committed on
Tribal lands is important, but keeping
guns out of the hands of domestic abus-
ers will help protect victims on Tribal
lands as well.
The bill passed by the House takes
this sort of comprehensive approach
by, for example, improving the law in
the areas of housing, Tribal protec-
tions, and gun safety.
I believe the Senate must do the
same. There is no simple way to stop
domestic violence, but we have a duty
to do all that we can. Thank you.
f
NOMINATION OF JANET DHILLON
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President,
today I wish to speak on the nomina-
tion of Janet Dhillon, who is nomi-
nated to be Chair of the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission. The
EEOC plays an important role in pro-
tecting American workers. I am deeply
concerned that Ms. Dhillon will put the
interests of corporations over those of
employees, which is antithetical to the
mission of the EEOC.
The EEOC is charged with ‘‘enforcing
federal laws that make it illegal to dis-
criminate against a job applicant or an
employee because of the person’s race,
color, religion, sex (including preg-
nancy, gender identity, and sexual ori-
entation), national origin, age (40 or
older), disability or genetic informa-
tion.’’ It also investigates claims of in-
dividuals who are retaliated against for
complaining about discrimination.
Needless to say, the EEOC plays a crit-
ical role in protecting American work-
ers and ensuring that our Federal anti-
discrimination laws are enforced and
not disregarded by unscrupulous em-
ployers.
In choosing someone to sit on the
Commission, it is critical that the ad-
ministration select someone with a his-
tory of working to advance civil rights
and workers’ rights. Ms. Dhillon clear-
ly does not have that background.
Ms. Dhillon has spent the vast major-
ity of her career working for and rep-
resenting the interests of large cor-
porations. Notably, while she was em-
ployed at JC Penney, the company was
harshly criticized for its handling of a
garment factory accident in Ban-
gladesh that killed more than 1,000 peo-
ple. She also worked at the Retail Liti-
gation Center, an entity that works to
limit employees’ and consumers’ access
to justice. These experiences stand in
direct opposition to the mission of the
EEOC.
Additionally, during her confirma-
tion hearing, she would not commit to
maintaining the EEOC’s current posi-
tion that title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 protects LGBT people from
discrimination. As one of the main au-
thors of the Equality Act in the Sen-
ate, which clarifies that existing civil
rights law forbids discrimination of
LGBT people, I am deeply concerned
Ms. Dhillon would not make that com-
mitment at her hearing.
If the United States is going to be a
beacon of liberty and freedom, we must
not allow discrimination of any kind to
continue. The EEOC plays an essential
role in fulfilling that promise of eradi-
cating discrimination and creating a
workplace that reflects the best of
American values: hard work, inge-
nuity, decency, and respect.
It is clear to me that Ms. Dhillon is
not the right person for the job, and I
urge my colleagues to vote against her
nomination.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.044 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2680 May 7, 2019
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health Education, Labor, and Pensions
Committee be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
Mr. ALEXANDER. In 1991, the National
Academies urged the adoption of electronic
health records to improve patients’ care.
However, for many patients and for many
doctors, electronic health records have made
care more complicated.
No one knows this better than Dr. Kelly
Aldrich, who is the Chief Clinical Trans-
formation Officer at the Center for Medical
Interoperability in Nashville and whose hus-
band, Eric, experienced a life-threatening
emergency that could have been prevented if
his electronic health records had been inter-
operable.
Eric woke up one morning with a splitting
headache and went to see his primary care
doctor, who sent Eric to the hospital for a
CT scan, the results of which prompted an
MRI. Usually, the hospital’s electronic med-
ical records system sends the results of the
MRI directly to Eric’s primary care doctor.
But in this case the results were never
sent, so 12 hours after the test, Eric’s doctor
called the hospital and learned that Eric had
a tumor so large it was causing his brain to
swell and shift, putting him at risk of sei-
zures, permanent brain damage, and possibly
death.
Eric, however, assuming no news was good
news, was already 500 miles away, on his way
to a fishing trip in Louisiana. Eric went to
Tulane Medical Center, which had to do an-
other MRI because they could not obtain
Eric’s original test results because the two
hospitals used different electronic medical
records systems. Eric flew back to Nashville,
where he had to have yet another MRI before
entering surgery. Eric later spent several
weeks recovering in the ICU.
At multiple points during this traumatic
experience, a lack of interoperability be-
tween electronic health records caused a life
threatening delay of care, redundant tests,
higher costs, and additional pain.
This is the second hearing on the proposed
rules implementing the electronic health in-
formation provisions in the 21st Century
Cures Act. Improving electronic health
records is important to this committee.
In 2015, while working on Cures, we real-
ized that our electronic health records sys-
tem was in a ditch.
This committee held six bipartisan hear-
ings on how to improve interoperability, and
formed a working group that recommended
provisions in Cures to ban information
blocking—which is when some obstacle is in
the way of a patient’s information being sent
from one doctor to another.
And this year, this committee is working
on legislation to lower the cost of health
care.
50 percent of what we spend on health care
is unnecessary, according to Dr. Brent James
of the National Academics. Electronic health
records that are interoperable can prevent
duplicative tests —like Eric’s repeated
MRIs—and reduce what doctors and hos-
pitals spend on administrative tasks.
In March, the Office of the National Coor-
dinator and the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services issued two rules to imple-
ment the electronic health records provi-
sions in Cures:
First the rules define information block-
ing—so it is more precisely clear what we
mean when one system, hospital, doctor,
vendor, or insurer is purposefully not shar-
ing information with another;
Second, the rules require that by January
1, 2020, for the first time, insurers must share
a patient’s health care data with the patient
so their health information follows them as
they see different doctors; and
Third, all electronic health records must
adopt publicly available standards for data
elements, known as Application Program-
ming Interfaces, or APIs, two years after
these rules are completed.
Last month, we heard from those who use
electronic health records, and here is what
they have to say about the rules. First, I
asked our witnesses if these were good
rules—and all four said yes, the intent and
the goal of the rules were correct.
Mary Grealy, president of the Healthcare
Leadership Council said: ‘‘Interoperability is
not simply desirable, it is absolutely nec-
essary . . . These rules represent an impor-
tant and perhaps groundbreaking first step
for true national interoperability.’’
I also asked our witnesses what one change
they would make to improve these rules.
Mary cautioned about not rushing imple-
mentation, saying, ‘‘We don’t want to pre-
vent moving ahead, or progress, but I think
we also have to be very cognizant of the
challenges that providers and others are fac-
ing trying to do this complex work.’’
In 2015, I urged the Obama Administration
to slow down Stage 3 of the Meaningful Use
program, which incentivized doctors and hos-
pitals to adopt electronic health records. The
Obama Administration did not slow down
implementation, and looking back, the re-
sults would have been better if they had.
The best way to get to where you want to
go is not by going too far, too fast.
I want to make sure we learn lessons from
implementing Meaningful Use Stage 3, which
was, in the words of one major hospital,
‘‘terrifying.’’
I am especially interested in getting where
we want to go with the involvement of doc-
tors, hospitals, vendors, and insurers, with
the fewest possible mistakes and the least
confusion.
We don’t need to set a record time to get
there with an unrealistic timeline. Because
these are complex rules, I asked CMS and
ONC to extend the comment period, and I am
glad to see they have done so and want to
thank our witnesses for allowing more time
for comment.
We also heard concerns about ensuring pa-
tient privacy. lf the 21st Century Cures Act
is successfully implemented, patients should
be able to get their own health data more
easily and send it to their health care pro-
viders.
Patients may also choose to send that data
to third parties—like an exercise tracking
app on their smart phone—but this raises
new questions about privacy. Lucia Savage,
Chief Privacy and Regulatory Officer at
Omada Health said, ‘‘I think the committee
. . . is rightfully concerned about privacy
and security . . . None of this will matter if
the consumers don’t have confidence, and
their doctors don’t have confidence that the
consumers have confidence.’’
Dr. Christopher Rehm, Chief Medical
Informatics Officer at Lifepoint Health in
Brentwood, Tennessee reminded us at the
hearing that these rules are ‘‘not about the
technology, it’s about the patient, their care
and their outcomes.’’
I am looking forward to hearing from the
Administration today about how they plan
to implement these rules.
WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS
POSTAGE STAMP
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, on
May 21, 2019, the U.S. Postal Service
will release a series of postage stamps
commemorating America’s Wild and
Scenic River system. These are Amer-
ica’s remarkable rivers and streams
unique for their free-flowing beauty,
along with their contribution to recre-
ation, fish and wildlife habitat, and
countless other important benefits.
As we recognize the 50th anniversary
of this landmark conservation law, I
want to make a point that Oregon has
always been a leader in protecting riv-
ers and just this year added more than
250 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers des-
ignations, increasing our miles of pro-
tected rivers from 1,916 to a grand total
of over 2,170 miles. That gives Oregon
the State with the most miles of Wild
and Scenic River designations in the
contiguous United States.
Three Oregon rivers are being recog-
nized by the U.S. Postal Service in this
commemorative stamp edition: the
Deschutes, the Owyhee, and the Snake
Rivers. Each is remarkable and unique
in its own way, and together, these riv-
ers embody Oregon’s tradition of pro-
viding habitat for endangered salmon
and steelhead, clean drinking water,
and recreation opportunities for count-
less outdoor enthusiasts from all over
the United States and the world.
One of these rivers, the Owyhee,
carves its way through some of the
harshest and most arid and remote
landscape of Oregon’s high desert in
the easternmost parts of our State.
The Owyhee River flows through a
steep, eroded canyon with cliffs tow-
ering hundreds of feet above. Added to
the Wild and Scenic Rivers system in
1984, this river is revered for its re-
markable cultural, geologic, rec-
reational, and scenic values. It is of
particular historical significance to
Tribes across Oregon, Idaho, and Ne-
vada. Beyond its significance as a Wild
and Scenic River, the Owyhee region is
a critical lifeline to the rural economy
of eastern Oregon and the local ranch-
ing community.
Moving westward to central Oregon,
the Deschutes River is an oasis that
winds through sandy, pumice-filled
soils and sloping plateaus. A Wild and
Scenic River since 1988, the Deschutes
is world renowned for its fly fishing,
rafting, and hiking opportunities. For
centuries, Native Americans have hon-
ored the cultural and fishing uses of
the river and venerated its historical
value.
The final Oregon river honored in
this series is back to the east in Oregon
but north of the Owyhee: the mighty
Snake River. It flows through Hells
Canyon—the deepest gorge in North
America—on the border between Idaho
and Oregon. First designated a Wild
and Scenic River in 1975, the Snake
River holds significant cultural value
for the people of the Shoshone and Nez
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.025 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2681
May 7, 2019
Perce Tribes. It also holds an impor-
tant part of our State’s history; emi-
grant pioneers risked their lives cross-
ing the Snake in search of their future
in Oregon. Pristine sections of this
river and its stunning landscapes pro-
vide bountiful opportunities for salmon
fishing, rafting, and exploration.
These Oregon rivers and others rec-
ognized by the U.S. Postal Service in
these stamps contribute to the most
stunning landscapes in the country and
protect the very qualities that make
America’s and Oregon’s natural treas-
ures so incredible.
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL CAROLINE
M. MILLER
Ms. ERNST. Madam President, today
I wish to recognize Col. Caroline M.
Miller, upon her departure as chief, Air
Force legislative liaison to the U.S.
Senate.
In this role, Colonel Miller managed
Air Force senior leader strategic en-
gagement with Senators and their
staffs in support of Air Force programs
and congressional oversight travel. She
served as the Air Force’s senior escort
for staff and congressional delegation
travel to more than 20 countries sup-
porting leadership, Member, and com-
mittee offices. Prior to her current po-
sition, she served as the 633rd Air Base
Wing commander at Joint Base Lang-
ley-Eustis,VA, providing installation
support to 18,000 Air Force and Army
personnel, including Headquarters Air
Combat Command, U.S. Army Training
and Doctrine Command, four oper-
ational wings, eight brigades, and more
than 20 major associate units.
Colonel Miller received her commis-
sion in 1994 from Officer Training
School, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL.
During her illustrious career, she has
served as a protocol officer, special ac-
tions officer, and executive officer for
several senior Air Force leadership of-
fices, as well as the Director of Man-
power and Personnel for United States
Strategic Command. Colonel Miller has
commanded at the squadron, group,
and wing levels, spending 1 year as the
commander, 379th Expeditionary Mis-
sion Support Group, Al Udeid Air Base,
Qatar, in support of Operations Endur-
ing Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. She
was also hand-selected to participate in
the elite Air Force Internship program,
as well as competed to attend the
Naval Command and Staff College and
Air Force’s Air War College.
Colonel Miller is married to Colonel
(Retired) Rich Miller who, along with
their son Ryan, have given her unwav-
ering support throughout her career in
the Air Force during multiple moves
and combat deployments.
On behalf of the U.S. Congress and a
grateful Nation, I extend our deepest
appreciation to Col. Caroline M. Miller
for her dedicated service to the Senate
and to our Nation. We wish her the best
on her promotion to brigadier general
and her next role as chief of Air Force
manpower at the Pentagon. There is no
question that the Air Force, Depart-
ment of Defense, and the United States
will continue to benefit greatly from
Colonel Miller’s leadership.
f
REMEMBERING DR. JAMES
BILLINGTON
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
Dr. James Billington was the 13th per-
son to hold the position of Librarian of
Congress since the Library was estab-
lished in 1800. He was nominated by
President Ronald Reagan and served
under Presidents George H.W. Bush,
Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and
Barack Obama.
As Librarian of Congress Dr.
Billington managed the Library of Con-
gress, which according to LOC, is the
largest library in the world, containing
millions of books, recordings, photo-
graphs, newspapers, maps, and manu-
scripts in its collections. It is the main
research arm of the U.S. Congress.
Dr. Billington doubled the size of the
Library’s collections during his tenure
from 85.5 million items in 1987 to more
than 160 million items. He created the
Library of Congress online, which
helped bring the Library into the dig-
ital age.
In 2003, Dr. Billington testified before
the Senate education committee at a
hearing I chaired called ‘‘Putting the
Teaching of American History and
Civics Back in the Classroom.’’
In his testimony that day, Dr.
Billington said: ‘‘During Alex Haley’s
12 years researching his ground-
breaking novel, Roots, he traveled the
globe to uncover his family’s story,
even taking a slow Atlantic crossing to
get some feel for what his ancestors
went through on the Middle Passage.
He also spent many hours in the read-
ing rooms of the Library of Congress,
poring over American Missionary Soci-
ety files from our Manuscript Collec-
tion.
‘‘For the first 190 years of the Li-
brary’s existence, people could access
our vast collections only by traveling
to Washington, D.C., and by working in
our beautiful reading rooms as Mr.
Haley did, or by tapping into our rich
holdings secondhand, through books
that made use of our collections . . .
‘‘The technology revolution of the
past decade has made it possible for the
Library to reach far beyond its build-
ings in Washington. We now deliver 8
million interesting and educational
multimedia documents, maps, and im-
ages of American history and culture
free of charge to stimulate curiosity
and humanize the study of history.
‘‘By exploiting the power of the
internet and the incomparable re-
sources of our collections, the Library
of Congress has emerged as the leading
provider of free noncommercial edu-
cational content on the Web. Millions
of educators, librarians, students, and
lifelong learners visit our Web sites
daily for materials that once were
available only through our reading
rooms on Capitol Hill.’’
Dr. Billington’s nearly three decades
of distinguished service and his efforts
to bring the Library of Congress into
the digital age will help ensure that
the Library will better preserve our
Nation’s history and enlighten its peo-
ple for many generations to come. His
legacy will be one of innovation and
diligence.
After his passing in 2018, his suc-
cessor at the Library of Congress,
Carla Hayden, said ‘‘Dr. Billington has
left an indelible legacy on the institu-
tion he led passionately for 28 years.
With his vigor for philanthropy and
tireless efforts to expand the reach and
impact of the Library, he achieved so
much to advance the Library of Con-
gress as an enduring place for scholars
and learners. He will be remembered as
a visionary leader, distinguished aca-
demic and, most of all, a great Amer-
ican.’’
At a recent Senate committee hear-
ing, I spoke with Ms. Hayden about
Alex Haley and the importance of what
he did: writing two bestselling books
on the African-American experience,
the autobiography of Malcolm X and
his book, Roots, which tell the story of
the African-American experience in
America. As Dr. Billington said, Alex
did a lot of his research at the Library
of Congress, and he found the name and
the date of the slave ship that actually
brought that ancestor to Annapolis in
the Library. I think Alex’s example
will help people understand how the Li-
brary of Congress can be so useful to
people who are trying to tell the story
of our country.
Ms. Hayden agreed saying, ‘‘many
notable films and books have started
with research at the Library of Con-
gress. We want to emphasize the fact
that Alex Haley did research here, and
also have his quotes about what it felt
like for him to be in that reading
room.’’
Alex Haley used to say, we should
‘‘find the good and praise it.’’ Dr.
Billington’s life’s work will help count-
less Americans ‘‘find the good and
praise it,’’ when it comes to the history
of our country.
f
REMEMBERING LIEUTENANT
COLONEL RICHARD ‘‘DICK’’ COLE
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President,
today I wish to honor Lieutenant Colo-
nel Richard ‘‘Dick’’ Cole, of the United
States Air Force, who was the last liv-
ing link of the Doolittle Raiders and
passed away on April 9 at the age of
103. The Doolittle Raiders were com-
prised of 80 heroic U.S. Army Air
Forces airmen who flew 16 modified B–
25 Mitchell bombers off the USS Hornet
aircraft carrier on the first Allied re-
taliatory strike on the Japanese Home
Islands, just a few months after Pearl
Harbor.
In an age before midair refueling and
GPS, the USS Hornet weighed less than
a quarter of today’s fortress-like air-
craft carriers. With then-Lt. Cole as
the copilot to then-Lt. Col. Jimmy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.028 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2682 May 7, 2019
Doolittle, the B–25 Mitchell bomber
#40–2344, would take off with only 467
feet of takeoff distance. This audacious
and unprecedented raid was a one-way
mission against enormous odds. What
made the mission all the more chal-
lenging was a sighting by a Japanese
patrol boat that prompted the task
force commander, U.S. Navy Adm. Wil-
liam Halsey, to launch the mission
more than 650 nautical miles from
Japan, 10 hours early and 170 nautical
miles farther than originally planned.
Flying at wavetop level around 200 feet
with their radios turned off, Cole and
the Raiders avoided detection for as
much of the distance as possible. In
groups of two to four aircraft, the
bombers targeted dry docks, armories,
oil refineries, and aircraft factories in
Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka and Kobe,
as well as Tokyo itself. The Japanese
air defenses were so caught off guard
by the Raiders that little anti-aircraft
fire was volleyed and only one Japa-
nese Zero followed in pursuit. With
their bombs delivered, the Raiders flew
towards safety in nonoccupied China,
but had to bail out when their aircraft
ran out of fuel.
The bombing mission sent a message
that America was ready to fight back,
and bolstered spirits on the home
front. Lt. Col. Cole remained in the
China-Burma-India Theater flying
combat and transport missions from
May 1942 to June 1943, followed by serv-
ice with the 5th Fighter Group in
Tulsa, OK, from June to October 1943.
He retired from the Air Force on De-
cember 31, 1966, as a command pilot
with more than 5,000 flight hours in 30
different aircraft, amassing more than
250 combat missions and more than 500
combat hours. His decorations include
the Distinguished Flying Cross with
two oakleaf clusters; Air Medal with
oakleaf cluster; Bronze Star Medal; Air
Force Commendation Medal; and Chi-
nese Army, Navy, Air Corps Medal,
Class A, First Grade. All Doolittle
Raiders were also awarded the Congres-
sional Gold Medal in May 2014.
In his final years, Lt. Col. Cole re-
mained a familiar face at Air Force
events in the San Antonio area and
toured Air Force schoolhouses and in-
stallations to promote the spirit of
service among new generations of air-
men. On September 19, 2016, Lt. Col.
Cole was present during the naming
ceremony for the Northrop Grumman
B–21 Raider, named in honor of the
Doolittle Raiders. While he may have
slipped the surly bonds of earth to re-
unite with his fellow Raiders, his leg-
acy will forever live on in the hearts
and minds of Americans.
On behalf of my colleagues in the
U.S. Senate, I wish to offer our eternal
thanks to Lt. Col. Cole and our condo-
lences to his family. May we never for-
get the courage and honor of the Doo-
little Raiders.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MARK ALAGNA
∑ Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President,
today, I am honored to recognize in the
RECORD a gentleman from whom I have
had the opportunity to learn and to
work with through a great company lo-
cated in my great home State of Geor-
gia. Mark Alagna is the vice president
of UPS global public affairs and has an-
nounced he will retire in June after
having served the company for 35
years.
The world headquarters for United
Parcel Service, called UPS, has been
based in Georgia since 1991. It is the
second-largest company in Georgia,
and in 2018, UPS earned $72 billion in
revenue with locations worldwide. This
company means a lot to my State.
In addition to that, UPS is a leader
in delivering workforce training and
mentorship programs that emphasize
the development of professional skills,
safety, and efficiency.
As the chairman of the Sub-
committee on Employment and the
Workplace, I am always looking out for
Georgia companies and workers, espe-
cially the ones that set the bar high.
Mark Alagna has been an important
member of that company who has pro-
vided me and my staff with needed in-
formation and assistance for many
years.
Mark’s service to UPS is long and
distinguished, rising through the ranks
as a loyal employee serving a company
that reciprocated that sense of loyalty
and development for a good staff mem-
ber. He has been with the company
since 1984 when he was hired as a pack-
age car driver, delivering packages di-
rectly to customers who depended upon
this service. For the last 24 years, he
has worked in the company’s public af-
fairs department, looking out for the
company’s interests by working effec-
tively with Members of Congress in
Washington, with a particular policy
focus on labor issues.
Mark also serves as liaison to the
board of the National Coalition of Mul-
tiemployer Pension Plans, is vice chair
of the Labor Policy Coalition, and sits
on the labor and pension advisory com-
mittee. Prior to joining the global pub-
lic affairs team, Mark also managed
several staff and operational assign-
ments in the mid-Atlantic area for
UPS.
I will miss the opportunity to work
with Mark, who has been a trusted as-
sociate, and his absence will be felt at
UPS and by all those who have had the
opportunity to work alongside him. We
all wish Mark and his family the very
best in a long and happy retirement.∑
f
PRUDENTIAL SPIRIT AWARD
∑ Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President,
today I wish to congratulate and honor
two Louisiana students who have
achieved national recognition for ex-
emplary volunteer service in their
communities. Kate Walker of Ruston
and Nikki Leali of New Orleans have
been named State honorees in the 2019
Prudential Spirit of Community
Awards program, an annual honor
granted to one high school student and
one middle school student in each
State and the District of Columbia.
Ms. Walker, a sophomore at Cedar
Creek School, is being recognized for
raising more than $70,000 to find a cure
for a rare neuromuscular disease
known as Friedreich’s ataxia, FA. In
addition to raising tens of thousands of
dollars to bring awareness to FA, Kate
used different kinds of media to spread
awareness and educate the public about
disabilities, including hosting a local
screening of a documentary film about
FA and starting a YouTube channel
featuring weekly videos about the chal-
lenges facing people with disabilities.
Kate’s mission is to teach people the
importance of treating people with dis-
abilities the same as everyone else.
Ms. Leali, a seventh grader at Ursu-
line Academy, is being recognized for
organizing a reading club that brings
middle school students and younger
children together. Nikki organized the
club after conducting an annual book
donation drive for several years that
redistributed more than 55,000 books in
her community. Nikki’s club allows
young children to build confidence in
reading in a safe and fun environment,
while also providing middle schoolers
an opportunity to serve their commu-
nity. Nikki has grown her club with a
website and corporate sponsors, and
she now has 15 to 30 children regularly
attending her monthly meetings.
It is vital that we encourage and sup-
port the kind of selfless contributions
these young people have made. People
of all ages need to think about how we,
as individual citizens, can work to-
gether at the local level to ensure the
health and vitality of our towns and
neighborhoods. Young volunteers like
Ms. Walker and Ms. Leali are inspiring
examples for all of us and are among
our brightest hopes for a better tomor-
row.
I also would like to salute other
young people in my state who were
named Distinguished Finalists by the
Prudential Spirit of Community
Awards for their outstanding volunteer
service. They are Hailey Enamorado,
15, of Denham Springs, LA; Julianna
Gouthiere, 12, of Shreveport, LA;
Myracle Lewis, 17, of Baton Rouge, LA;
and Grace Sun, 17, of Shreveport, LA.
All of these young people have dem-
onstrated a level of commitment and
accomplishment that is truly extraor-
dinary in today’s world and deserve our
sincere admiration and respect. Their
actions show that young Americans
can and do play important roles in
their communities, and that America’s
community spirit continues to hold
tremendous promise for the future.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.026 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2683
May 7, 2019
INAUGURAL COSI SCIENCE
FESTIVAL
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President,
today I wish to acknowledge the inau-
gural COSI Science Festival that took
place in Columbus during the first 4
days of May. COSI is a statewide
science center that has been engaging,
inspiring, and transforming Ohio’s
young citizens since 1964 and directly
impacts over 1 million people annually.
This festival event serves as a conduit
to involve students, educators, policy-
makers, and families in STEM. COSI
hosted the culminating event, the Big
Science Celebration, where thousands
of individuals gathered to experience
hands-on learning around critical in-
dustry sectors for Ohio, such as agri-
culture, aerospace, and advanced man-
ufacturing.
COSI’s Science Festival partnered
with NASA, DOT, and several state
agencies to provide hands-on learning
opportunities. Local mayors from 10
partner-cities were also featured to
demonstrate the value of STEM in our
communities. Pioneers in STEM of all
ages from central Ohio were appointed
as STEM Stars to serve as liaisons be-
tween community and industry.
Visitors to the science festival expe-
rienced hands-on scientific demonstra-
tions, interactive exhibits, workshops,
and much more. Ohioans had the op-
portunity to take part in an event that
will undoubtedly leave a lasting im-
pact in the STEM field.
I am honored to recognize the COSI
Science Festival on this important
event highlighting the impact of STEM
throughout our nation.
Congratulations to all who were in-
volved in making it a success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PAUL CLOUD
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I recognize Paul Vincent Cloud of
Niceville, FL, who served his nation in
the U.S. Army during World War II and
will turn 100 years old on June 8, 2019.
Paul enlisted with the U.S. Army on
March 1, 1941, in Huntington, WV. He
was assigned as a supply clerk in Com-
pany D, 7th Infantry Regiment, 3rd In-
fantry Division, and trained at Fort
Lewis, WA.
On October 24, 1942, Paul was de-
ployed as part of Task Force 34 for Op-
eration Torch, landing at Fedala in
French Morocco as part of the Battle of
Casablanca. After its surrender, Paul’s
unit was temporally assigned in Rabat,
French Morocco’s capital city before
moving to Algiers, Algeria. As a part of
the 3rd Infantry Division, he was sent
to reinforce the 1st Infantry Division
at the Kasserine Pass, Tunisia.
In July 1943, Paul left Bizerte, Tuni-
sia, and landed in Sicily near Gela,
moving to Palermo and Messina as his
division was ordered to Salerno and
then Naples, Italy. In late spring 1944,
Paul landed at Anzio and advanced
with his unit to Rome to seize control
of the city after the German retreat.
He was later selected to return to the
United States due to his service points,
leaving Naples on July 16, 1944. Paul
was honorably discharged at Fort
Meade, MD, and received the Good Con-
duct Medal, American Defense Service
Medal, and European African Middle
Eastern Service Ribbon.
After he was discharged, Paul mar-
ried Dorothy Anderson in 1947 and
graduated from Ben Franklin Univer-
sity in 1951. He worked for the Veterans
Administration and the Internal Rev-
enue Service, retiring in January 1976.
Together they have two daughters and
five grandchildren.
I extend my best wishes to Paul in
celebration of his upcoming 100th
birthday and for his service to our Na-
tion. I hope the coming year brings
him much happiness, joy, and good
health.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SAMUEL LOMBARDO
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I recognize Samuel Lombardo of Fort
Walton Beach, FL, who served his na-
tion in the U.S. Army during World
War II and the Korean war. He will
turn 100 years old on July 13, 2019.
Born in Italy, Samuel immigrated as
a young boy to the United States. He
enlisted with the U.S. Army in Novem-
ber 1939 in Pennsylvania. He served as
the battalion topographical sergeant in
the 11th Infantry, 28th Infantry Divi-
sion and graduated from officer can-
didate school at Fort Benning as an in-
fantry officer in July 1942.
After serving as an infantry basic
training Instructor at Camp Fannin,
TX, he was deployed to Europe as a
platoon leader and company executive
officer in Company I, 394th Infantry
Regiment, 99th Division during the
Battle of the Bulge. Following the bat-
tle, he made an American Flag for his
platoon to carry across the Danube
River from red pillows, blue curtains,
and white surrender cloths. He served
in the U.S. Army occupation in Ger-
many and was the building officer in
charge of the Palace of Justice in
Nuremburg and as the officer in charge
of a POW camp in Hammelburg with
350 Political POWs.
Upon returning to the U.S., he at-
tended school in Los Angeles, CA, be-
coming a Japanese linguist. He served
as the operations officer, commanding
officer, and assistant special agent-in-
charge of the 441st CIC Aomori, Japan,
and was a field operations intelligence
officer in both South Korea and Japan
after a tour as inspector general and
deputy chief of staff at Fort Ord, CA.
Samuel then served as an intelligence
officer in Saigon, Republic of Vietnam,
before the U.S. formally entered the
conflict. He returned to Fort Ord after
becoming ill with typhoid and retired
as a lieutenant colonel in March 1, 1962.
After his service, Samuel wrote a
book, ‘‘O’er the Land of the Free,’’
about his World War II experiences. He
has received several awards and decora-
tions for his service to our country.
I extend my best wishes to Samuel in
celebration of his upcoming 100th
birthday and for his service to our Na-
tion. It is my hope that the coming
year is filled with good health and hap-
piness.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CYNTHIA
BARRINGTON
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I recognize Cynthia Barrington, the
Jefferson County Teacher of the Year
from Jefferson-Somerset Elementary
School in Monticello, FL.
From a young age, Cynthia’s grand-
mother instilled in her the importance
of education. In the years that fol-
lowed, Cynthia became passionate
about being a part of the educational
system. Cynthia’s favorite aspect of
teaching is working with students in
order to have a better understanding of
how to best teach them.
Cynthia began her career as a Jeffer-
son County teacher and taught at Jef-
ferson Elementary School for 27 years.
When Somerset Charter took over the
county’s schools, she was included in
the school transfer of teachers. She
now teaches second grade at Jefferson-
Somerset Elementary School.
I extend my sincere gratitude and
best wishes to Cynthia for her dedica-
tion to teaching and look forward to
learning of her continued success in
the years ahead.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DAVID COCHRANE
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I honor David Cochrane, the Franklin
County Teacher of the Year from
Franklin County Middle and High
School in Eastpoint, FL.
At his award ceremony, David ad-
dressed the crowd to thank his col-
leagues and students for supporting
him. He is excited to help make the
school the best it can be and holds high
expectations and standards for his stu-
dents.
David believes that all students de-
serve a quality education. He encour-
ages his students to think about life
after high school and emphasizes that
they should work with all of their
teachers.
David is a former U.S. Air Force
Desert Storm veteran with 14 years of
teaching experience. He joined the
Franklin County Seahawks in 2015 and
teaches algebra and physics. He also
serves as the mathematics coach, de-
partment chair, and is the sponsor of
the Mu Alpha Theta Club.
I offer my sincere gratitude to David
for his service to our Nation and ex-
tend my best wishes on his continued
success in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SANDRA MCMILLAN
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I recognize Sandra McMillan, the Gads-
den County Teacher of the Year from
Greensboro Elementary School in
Quincy, FL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.032 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2684 May 7, 2019
Sandra considers this important rec-
ognition a new motivation for her and
has inspired her to do more for her stu-
dents. She describes her passion for
teaching and learning as the key to de-
veloping a curriculum that sets the
best example for students to take with
them after they graduate.
Sandra provides her students with a
template for hard work and dedication
to success through her time teaching
at the college level. Sandra’s students
describe her class as a great learning
environment that inspires them to
achieve success.
Sandra has been a teacher for 11
years, with the last 5 in the Gadsden
County School District. She has taught
exceptional students education at
Greensboro Elementary School for the
past 2 years and previously taught at
the college level for 6 years.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Sandra for her dedication to
teaching her students and look forward
to hearing of her continued success in
the years to come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING RISING TIDE CAR
WASH
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, this
week the U.S. Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship
joins more than 30 million small busi-
nesses across our Nation in celebration
of National Small Business Week.
Small businesses drive our Nation’s
economic expansion, generate lasting
job growth, and encourage community
development. It is important that we
recognize the vital contributions of
small businesses. In celebration of Na-
tional Small Business Week, it is my
honor name Rising Tide Car Wash of
Parkland and Margate, FL, as the Sen-
ate Small Business of the Week.
Founded in November 2012 by John
D’Eri and his son, Tom, Rising Tide is
a full-service car wash with the mis-
sion of employing adults with autism.
Andrew D’Eri, John’s other son, is au-
tistic. As Andrew neared the end of his
academic career, John brainstormed
ways to help him find a dignified job.
Noting his son’s embrace of structure,
process, and attention to detail, John
landed on the idea of buying a car
wash. Since purchasing the struggling
car wash 9 years ago, John and Tom
have grown the business to include a
second location, going from washing
35,000 cars per year to more than 150,000
annually.
Today, Rising Tide is one of the larg-
est employers of individuals with au-
tism in the United States. In fact, Ris-
ing Tide views autism as their com-
petitive advantage, giving dignified
work, structure, and hope to 90 individ-
uals with autism. Their work has not
stopped there. Rising Tide is also a
leading advocate for autism awareness.
In an effort to aid other entrepreneurs
looking to build an autism social en-
terprise, Tom and John created Rising
Tide U, an online course offered in
partnership with the University of
Miami-Nova Southeastern University
Center for Autism and Related Disabil-
ities. Tom and John’s innovative ap-
proach to advocacy has not only al-
lowed for their business to grow, but
has also allowed more small firms to
hire individuals with autism.
Rising Tide’s mission has sparked na-
tional attention. Tom has appeared be-
fore the United Nations on World Au-
tism Awareness day, was selected to
serve on the Young Entrepreneur Coun-
cil, and was included in Forbes 30
Under 30 for social entrepreneurship.
Additionally, Rising Tide and the D’Eri
family have been featured on The Hero
Effect, The Today Show, NBC News,
TED Talks, Forbes, and People Maga-
zine. Rising Tide has also been named
Small Business of the Year by South
Florida Business Connection and Em-
ployer of the Year by the Autism Soci-
ety.
Rising Tide is more than just a suc-
cessful business; they are an inspira-
tion. John and Tom have combined the
principles of entrepreneurship and so-
cial engagement to create a revolu-
tionary program. Running a successful
small business is difficult enough; yet
John and Tom D’Eri have found a way
to simultaneously engage and encour-
age truly deserving individuals. Their
employees have found a community,
friends, and gained valuable experience
that will serve them for the rest of
their lives.
Starting out with a simple mission of
helping a family member find an en-
gaging job, John and Tom have grown
Rising Tide into a business that pro-
vides both a valuable community serv-
ice and dignified work. I am honored to
recognize the D’Eri family and the en-
tire team at Rising Tide Car Wash as
the Senate Small Business of the Week.
You make Florida proud, and I look
forward to watching your continued
growth and success.∑
f
RECOGNIZING VETFRIENDS
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina.
Madam President, as a member of the
Senate Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, it is my privi-
lege to honor a South Carolina small
business during the U.S. Small Busi-
ness Administration’s National Small
Business Week. In my State, small
business owners work hard to con-
tribute to our local economy and serve
South Carolina communities. Today, it
is my honor to recognize VetFriends of
Mount Pleasant, SC, as the Senate
Small Business of the Day.
Dale Sutcliffe, a U.S. Marine Corps
veteran of Desert Storm, founded
VetFriends nearly 20 years ago with
the mission of reuniting veterans. Fol-
lowing his service, Dale realized the
benefit that a national registry of vet-
erans could have and quickly set up a
platform where veterans can reconnect
with their fellow servicemembers dur-
ing their time serving our country. The
VetFriends platform has over 2.5 mil-
lion members and has brought together
thousands of veterans with their
former associates. In the process, the
platform has helped veterans share sto-
ries and photos, as well as stay in-
formed about upcoming reunions and
events. Currently, the business em-
ploys over 25 South Carolinians, and al-
most all have a close relative or part-
ner who is enlisted or has served.
The team at VetFriends has a long-
standing tradition of supporting the
veteran community and are regularly
seen volunteering at the Ralph H.
Johnson VA Medical Center. Addition-
ally, the business has taken an active
role working with the Wounded War-
rior Project and the Patriots Point
Naval and Maritime Museum in
Charleston. It is clear that VetFriend’s
values and goals not only enhance
their business plan but also improve
the community that they belong to.
As we highlight the role that small
businesses play throughout this week,
it is my pleasure to honor the hard
work that VetFriends is doing in the
great State of South Carolina. They
are a tremendous example of the way
small businesses create innovative so-
lutions, as well as give back to the
community; I wish them nothing but
success in their future endeavors.∑
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 1332. A bill to set forth the congressional
budget for the United States Government for
fiscal year 2020 and setting forth the appro-
priate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021
through 2029.
H.R. 9. An act to direct the President to
develop a plan for the United States to meet
its nationally determined contribution under
the Paris Agreement, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1176. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Stream-
lined Reauthorization Procedures for As-
signed or Transferred Television Satellite
Stations; Modernization of Media Regulation
Initiative’’ ((FCC 19–17) (MB Docket Nos. 18–
63 and 17–105)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on April 15, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1177. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Channel
Lineup Requirements - Sections 76.1705 and
76.1700(a) (4); Modernization of Media Regula-
tion Initiative’’ ((FCC 19–33) (MB Docket
Nos. 18–92 and 17–105)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 29,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1178. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.037 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2685
May 7, 2019
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Television
Broadcasting Services; Bridgeport and Stam-
ford, Connecticut’’ ((DA 19–264) (MB Docket
No. 18–126)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 29, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1179. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Use of
Spectrum Bands Above 24 GHz for Mobile
Radio Services’’ ((FCC 19–30) (GN Docket No.
14–177)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 29, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1180. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Sabine River, Orange, TX’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0160)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1181. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Mississippi Sound, Biloxi,
MS’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0222)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1182. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Xterra Swim, Intracoastal
Waterway; Myrtle Beach, SC’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0024)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on April
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1183. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lake of the Ozarks, Osage
Beach, MO’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0113)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 1, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1184. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Sail Grand Prix 2019 Practice
Days Safety Zone for Sailing Vessels; San
Francisco, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0101)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 1, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1185. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Cumberland River, Nashville,
TN’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0152)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1186. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zones; Corpus Christi Ship Channel,
Corpus Christi, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0206)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1187. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zones; Corpus Christi Ship Channel,
Corpus Christi, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0217)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1188. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Choptank River, Cam-
bridge, MD’’ ((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0051)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 22, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1189. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Ohio River, Louis-
ville, KY’’ ((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0163)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 22, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1190. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Lake of Ozarks, Vil-
lage of Four Seasons, MO’’ ((RIN1625–AA08)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0205)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1191. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Bush River and Otter
Point Creek, Harford County, MD’’
((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0083)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1192. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Lake Pontchartrain,
New Orleans, LA’’ ((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0058)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1193. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Youngs
Bay and Lewis and Clark River, Astoria, OR’’
((RIN1625–AA09) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
0131)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1194. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘An-
chorage Grounds; Baltimore Harbor, Balti-
more, MD’’ ((RIN1625–AA01) (Docket No.
USCG–2017–0181)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 1, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1195. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2016–9395)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1196. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–1085)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1197. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–1085)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1198. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0704))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1199. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0903))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on May 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1200. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–1009))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1201. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–1063))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1202. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.006 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2686 May 7, 2019
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0121))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1203. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0122))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1204. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0190))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1205. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0191))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1206. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bell Helicopter Textron Can-
ada Limited Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–0433)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1207. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2017–1241)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1208. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0899)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1209. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0899)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1210. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0634))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1211. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0965))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on May 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1212. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0706)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1213. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–1010)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1214. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; GA 8 Airvan (Pty) Ltd. Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0771)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1215. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Honeywell International Inc.
Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2018–0719)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1216. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; HPH s.r.o. Gilders’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0202))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1217. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2018–0735)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1218. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2018–0735)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1219. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
AG Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0151)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1220. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Northrop Grumman LITEF
GmbH LCR–100 Attitude and Heading Ref-
erence System Units’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–0522)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1221. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pacific Aerospace Limited
Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0895)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1222. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pilatus Aircraft Ltd. Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0205)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1223. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Division
(PW) Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0920)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1224. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Division
(PW) Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0924)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1225. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Division
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.008 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2687
May 7, 2019
(PW) Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0924)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 24, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1226. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Robinson Helicopter Com-
pany Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2017–1236)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1227. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls-Royce PLC Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0611)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on May 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1228. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Vulcanair S.p.A. Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0210))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1229. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Zodiac Seats France Cabin
Attendant Seats’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2017–0839)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1230. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General
Thomas D. Waldhauser, United States Ma-
rine Corps, and his advancement to the grade
of general on the retired list; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–1231. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Foreign Criminal and Civil
Jurisdiction’’ (RIN0790–AI89) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on May
6, 2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1232. A communication from the Man-
agement Analyst, Department of the Army,
Department of Defense, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Regulations Affecting Military Reserva-
tions’’ (RIN0790–AA95) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 6, 2019;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1233. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; Changes to the Medi-
care Claims and Medicare Prescription Drug
Coverage Determination Appeals Proce-
dures’’ (RIN0938–AT27) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 6, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–1234. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicaid Program; Reassignment of Med-
icaid Provider Claims’’ (RIN0938–AT61) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 6, 2019; to the Committee on
Finance.
EC–1235. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Attorney General, Office of
Legal Policy, Department of Justice, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation
Adjustment’’ (Docket No. OAG 148) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 3,
2019; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–1236. A communication from the Chief
of the Fiscal and Contract Law Unit, Federal
Bureau of Investigation, Department of Jus-
tice, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation’s National Policy Act Regula-
tions’’ (RIN1110–AA32) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 2, 2019;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 1336. A bill to create an Office of Cyber-
security at the Federal Trade Commission
for supervision of data security at consumer
reporting agencies, to require the promulga-
tion of regulations establishing standards for
effective cybersecurity at consumer report-
ing agencies, to impose penalties on credit
reporting agencies for cybersecurity
breaches that put sensitive consumer data at
risk, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and
Mr. BENNET):
S. 1337. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to establish an Office of Correc-
tional Education, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. MARKEY, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
MURPHY, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
BALDWIN, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 1338. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to issue guidance and rec-
ommendations for institutions of higher edu-
cation on removing criminal and juvenile
justice questions from their application for
admissions process; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 1339. A bill to require greater trans-
parency for Federal regulatory decisions
that impact small businesses; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ:
S. 1340. A bill to authorize activities to
combat the Ebola outbreak in the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1341. A bill to adopt a certain California
flammability standard as a Federal flamma-
bility standard to protect against the risk of
upholstered furniture flammability, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. 1342. A bill to require the Under Sec-
retary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update
periodically the environmental sensitivity
index products of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration for each coastal
area of the Great Lakes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 1343. A bill to amend title XIX and XXI
of the Social Security Act to improve Med-
icaid and the Children’s Health Insurance
Program for low-income mothers; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr. YOUNG,
and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 1344. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to collect data and issue a re-
port on the opportunity zone tax incentives
enacted by the 2017 tax reform legislation,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr. ALEX-
ANDER):
S. 1345. A bill to amend and reauthorize the
Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foun-
dation Act; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, and
Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1346. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require the Secretary to
provide for the use of data from the second
preceding tax year to carry out the sim-
plification of applications for the estimation
and determination of financial aid eligi-
bility, to increase the income threshold to
qualify for a student aid index equal to or
less than zero, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 1347. A bill to require the United States
Postal Service to designate a single, unique
ZIP code for particular communities; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr. KING,
Mr. ROUNDS, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1348. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to conduct a study on
cyberexploitation of members of the Armed
Forces and their families, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 1349. A bill to expand enrollment in TSA
PreCheck to expedite commercial travel
screening and improve airport security; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr.
KING, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. WICKER, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 1350. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to limit the liability of health
care professionals who volunteer to provide
health care services in response to a disaster;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:58 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MAY\S07MY9.REC S07MY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2688 May 7, 2019
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. HIRONO, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. 1351. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an income tax
credit for eldercare expenses; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 1352. A bill to establish a Federal Advi-
sory Council to Support Victims of Gun Vio-
lence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASEY:
S. 1353. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to require
mandatory reporting of incidents of child
abuse or neglect, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. REED,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1354. A bill to require certain protec-
tions for student loan borrowers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
COONS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. PORTMAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 1355. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exclusion
from gross income for AmeriCorps edu-
cational awards; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
GRAHAM, and Mr. WARNER):
S. 1356. A bill to enhance transparency and
accountability for online political advertise-
ments by requiring those who purchase and
publish such ads to disclose information
about the advertisements to the public, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. Res. 192. A resolution to authorize testi-
mony and representation in State of Nevada
v. Lacamera; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. PORTMAN,
Ms. HIRONO, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. Res. 193. A resolution designating May
18, 2019, as ‘‘Kids to Parks Day’’; considered
and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 27, a bill to amend the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of
1977 to transfer certain funds to the
1974 United Mine Workers of America
Pension Plan, and for other purposes.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 91, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to authorize per
diem payments under comprehensive
service programs for homeless veterans
to furnish care to dependents of home-
less veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 151, a bill to deter criminal
robocall violations and improve en-
forcement of section 227(b) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, and for other
purposes.
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 225, a bill to provide for
partnerships among State and local
governments, regional entities, and the
private sector to preserve, conserve,
and enhance the visitor experience at
nationally significant battlefields of
the American Revolution, War of 1812,
and Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 284
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
284, a bill to provide for a biennial
budget process and a biennial appro-
priations process and to enhance over-
sight and the performance of the Fed-
eral Government.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
362, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of
alcoholic beverages.
S. 373
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 373, a bill to pro-
vide for the retention and service of
transgender individuals in the Armed
Forces.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
386, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for
employment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 457, a bill to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President
George H.W. Bush and to direct the
Secretary of the Treasury to issue bul-
lion coins during 2019 in honor of Bar-
bara Bush.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Maine (Mr. KING) were added as
cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to revise sec-
tion 48 of title 18, United States Code,
and for other purposes.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 559, a bill to amend the Fam-
ily and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to
provide leave because of the death of a
son or daughter.
S. 577
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 577, a bill to require the estab-
lishment of a process for excluding ar-
ticles imported from the People’s Re-
public of China from certain duties im-
posed under section 301 of the Trade
Act of 1974, and for other purposes.
S. 599
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 599, a bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act with respect
to aliens associated with criminal
gangs, and for other purposes.
S. 606
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 606, a bill to improve oversight
and evaluation of the mental health
and suicide prevention media outreach
campaigns of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
622, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to repeal the requirement
for reduction of survivor annuities
under the Survivor Benefit Plan by
veterans’ dependency and indemnity
compensation, and for other purposes.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ) were added as
cosponsors of S. 803, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
store incentives for investments in
qualified improvement property.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 839, a bill to extend Fed-
eral Pell Grant eligibility of certain
short-term programs.
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
839, supra.
S. 849
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.018 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2689
May 7, 2019
Montana (Mr. DAINES), the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS), the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ),
the Senator from Indiana (Mr. BRAUN),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Senator from
Montana (Mr. TESTER) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 849, a
bill to provide for the inclusion on the
Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall of
the names of the lost crew members of
the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans killed on
June 3, 1969.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 867, a bill to protect students of
institutions of higher education and
the taxpayer investment in institu-
tions of higher education by improving
oversight and accountability of institu-
tions of higher education, particularly
for-profit colleges, improving protec-
tions for students and borrowers, and
ensuring the integrity of postsecondary
education programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 878
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 878, a bill to foster security in Tai-
wan, and for other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were added
as cosponsors of S. 901, a bill to amend
the Older Americans Act of 1965 to sup-
port individuals with younger onset
Alzheimer’s disease.
S. 948
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
948, a bill to provide incentives to phy-
sicians to practice in rural and medi-
cally underserved communities, and for
other purposes.
S. 1006
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1006, a bill to amend the Truth
in Lending Act to empower the States
to set the maximum annual percentage
rates applicable to consumer credit
transactions, and for other purposes.
S. 1037
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1037, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
modernize provisions relating to rural
health clinics under Medicare.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1039, a bill to limit the use of
funds for kinetic military operations in
or against Iran.
S. 1067
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1067, a bill to provide for research
to better understand the causes and
consequences of sexual harassment af-
fecting individuals in the scientific,
technical, engineering, and mathe-
matics workforce and to examine poli-
cies to reduce the prevalence and nega-
tive impact of such harassment, and
for other purposes.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ), the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) and the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1081, a bill to
amend title 54, United States Code, to
provide permanent, dedicated funding
for the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, and for other purposes.
S. 1100
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. YOUNG) were with-
drawn as cosponsors of S. 1100, a bill to
institute a program for the disclosure
of taxpayer information for third-party
income verification through the Inter-
net.
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1100, supra.
S. 1103
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1103, a bill to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to es-
tablish a skills-based immigration
points system, to focus on family-spon-
sored immigration on spouses and
minor children, to eliminate the Diver-
sity Visa Program, to set a limit on
the number of refugees admitted annu-
ally to the United States, and for other
purposes.
S. 1125
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1125, a bill to amend
the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act.
S. 1140
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1140, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act with respect
to the treatment under section
351(k)(7) of such Act (relating to exclu-
sivity for reference products) of certain
products deemed to have a biological
product license pursuant to section
7002 of the Biologics Price Competition
and Innovation Act of 2009.
S. 1148
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1148, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration to give preferential consider-
ation to individuals who have success-
fully completed air traffic controller
training and veterans when hiring air
traffic control specialists.
S. 1169
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
with respect to citizen petitions.
S. 1195
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. SULLIVAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1195, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to clarify presump-
tion relating to the exposure of certain
veterans who served in the vicinity of
the Republic of Vietnam, and for other
purposes.
S. 1203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1203, a bill to amend the High-
er Education Act of 1965 in order to im-
prove the public service loan forgive-
ness program, and for other purposes.
S. 1208
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1208, a bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 with respect to payments to cer-
tain public safety officers who have be-
come permanently and totally disabled
as a result of personal injuries sus-
tained in the line of duty, and for other
purposes.
S. 1218
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH), the Sen-
ator from New York (Mr. SCHUMER) and
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS) were added as cosponsors of S.
1218, a bill to require the review of the
service of certain members of the
Armed Forces during World War I to
determine if such members should be
awarded the Medal of Honor, to author-
ize the award of the Medal of Honor
based on the results of the review, and
for other purposes.
S. 1229
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.012 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2690 May 7, 2019
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1229, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to improve the
provision of military housing to mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and their
families through private entities, and
for other purposes.
S. 1241
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1241, a bill to expand the private
right of action under the Telephone
Consumer Protection Act for calls in
violation of the Do Not Call rules.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1286
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1286, a bill to amend the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 to facilitate the
commercialization of energy and re-
lated technologies developed at Depart-
ment of Energy facilities with prom-
ising commercial potential.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1300, a
bill to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of the National
Law Enforcement Museum in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1301
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1301, a bill to prohibit the
use of the poisons sodium fluoroacetate
(known as ‘‘Compound 1080’’ ) and so-
dium cyanide for predator control.
S. 1333
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1333, a bill to amend the Improper Pay-
ments Elimination and Recovery Im-
provement Act of 2012, including mak-
ing changes to the Do Not Pay Initia-
tive, for improved detection, preven-
tion, and recovery of improper pay-
ments to deceased individuals, and for
other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent resolu-
tion supporting the Local Radio Free-
dom Act.
S. CON. RES. 10
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 10, a concurrent resolution
recognizing that Chinese telecommuni-
cations companies such as Huawei and
ZTE pose serious threats to the na-
tional security of the United States
and its allies.
S. RES. 96
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 96, a resolution commending
the Government of Canada for uphold-
ing the rule of law and expressing con-
cern over actions by the Government of
the People’s Republic of China in re-
sponse to a request from the United
States Government to the Government
of Canada for the extradition of a
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. execu-
tive.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) and the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. YOUNG) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 120, a resolution op-
posing efforts to delegitimize the State
of Israel and the Global Boycott, Di-
vestment, and Sanctions Movement
targeting Israel.
S. RES. 143
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) and the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 143, a resolution
recognizing Israeli-American culture
and heritage and the contributions of
the Israeli-American community to the
United States.
S. RES. 184
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 184, a resolution con-
demning the Easter Sunday terrorist
attacks in Sri Lanka, offering sincere
condolences to the victims, to their
families and friends, and to the people
and nation of Sri Lanka, and express-
ing solidarity and support for Sri
Lanka.
S. RES. 188
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms.
BALDWIN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 188, a resolution encouraging a
swift transfer of power by the military
to a civilian-led political authority in
the Republic of the Sudan, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. 1349. A bill to expand enrollment
in TSA PreCheck to expedite commer-
cial travel screening and improve air-
port security; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1349
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Secure Trav-
eler Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) PUBLIC AGENCY.—The term ‘‘public
agency’’ means the Federal Government, a
State government, a unit of local govern-
ment, any combination of such government
entities, or any department, agency, or in-
strumentality of any such government enti-
ty.
(2) SPONSORING AGENCY.—The term ‘‘spon-
soring agency’’ means a government agency
for which a security clearance is obtained, as
determined by the Director of the National
Background Investigations Bureau of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management.
(3) PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER.—the term
‘‘public safety officer’’ means a person serv-
ing as a law enforcement officer, as deter-
mined by the Attorney General
SEC. 3. TSA PRECHECK ENROLLMENT FOR INDI-
VIDUALS WITH ACTIVE SECURITY
CLEARANCE.
(a) PROCESS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration, in consultation with
the Director of the National Background In-
vestigations Bureau of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management and other appropriate
departments and agencies of the Federal
Government, shall establish a process to per-
mit the verification of an active security
clearance to enable enrollment in TSA
PreCheck.
(b) COMPONENTS.—In establishing the proc-
ess required under subsection (a), the Admin-
istrator shall ensure that—
(1) eligible applicants for TSA PreCheck
provide verification of active clearance
through coordination with their sponsoring
agency;
(2) active clearance is required at the time
an application is submitted and at the time
of its approval;
(3) interim security clearance is not ac-
cepted for purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2);
and
(4) approved applicants are assigned a
trusted traveler number.
(c) ELIGIBLE LEVELS OF CLEARANCE.—An in-
dividual holding any of the following secu-
rity clearances shall be eligible to partici-
pate in TSA PreCheck under the process es-
tablished under subsection (a):
(1) Secret.
(2) Top Secret, including Sensitive Com-
partmented Information.
(3) L Clearance.
(4) Q Clearance.
(5) Yankee White, all categories.
(d) FEES.—Any individual who enrolls in
TSA PreCheck through the process estab-
lished under subsection (a) shall submit any
fee required to cover the costs of participa-
tion in such program. Notwithstanding sec-
tion 3302 of title 31, United States Code, such
fee shall be retained and used by the Trans-
portation Security Administration.
(e) TERMINATION; RENEWAL.—
(1) TERM.—If an individual remains eligible
for membership in TSA PreCheck under the
requirements established by the Transpor-
tation Security Administration, his or her
participation in TSA PreCheck will termi-
nate on the date that is 5 years after the
date on which such enrollment is approved
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.014 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2691
May 7, 2019
unless it is renewed in accordance with ap-
plicable law.
(2) REVOCATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An individual’s participa-
tion in TSA PreCheck that was initiated
through the process established under sub-
section (a) shall be terminated if the under-
lying security clearance is revoked, as deter-
mined by the sponsoring agency.
(B) EXCEPTIONS.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (A), an individual’s participa-
tion in TSA PreCheck that was initiated
through the process established under sub-
section (a) may be revoked, at the discretion
of the Administrator, if—
(i) the individual is determined to pose a
threat to aviation or national security; and
(ii) the underlying security clearance is in-
activated as a result of a change of the indi-
vidual’s employment or the end of an indi-
vidual’s appointment in a particular posi-
tion.
SEC. 4. TSA PRECHECK ENROLLMENT FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
(a) PROCESS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration, in consultation with
the Attorney General, shall establish a proc-
ess to permit the enrollment of certain law
enforcement officers in TSA PreCheck.
(b) COMPONENTS.—In establishing the proc-
ess required under subsection (a), the Attor-
ney General and the Administrator shall en-
sure that—
(1) eligible applicants for TSA PreCheck
provide verification of active employment
through coordination with their sponsoring
agency;
(2) active employment in good standing is
required—
(A) at the time an application is sub-
mitted; and
(B) at the time an application is approved;
(3) interim disciplinary status is not ac-
cepted for purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2);
and
(4) approved applicants are assigned a
trusted traveler number.
(c) ELIGIBLE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFI-
CERS.—An individual shall be eligible to par-
ticipate in TSA PreCheck under the process
established under subsection (a) if he or
she—
(1) is a public safety officer for a public
agency (including a court system) that re-
ceives Federal financial assistance;
(2) is a law enforcement officer for a public
agency; or
(3) occupies another position, as deemed
appropriate by the Attorney General and the
Administrator.
(d) FEES.—Any individual who enrolls in
TSA PreCheck through the process estab-
lished under subsection (a) shall submit any
fee required to cover the costs of participa-
tion in such program. Notwithstanding sec-
tion 3302 of title 31, United States Code, such
fee shall be retained and used by the Trans-
portation Security Administration.
(e) TERMINATION; RENEWAL.—
(1) TERM.—If an individual remains eligible
for membership in TSA PreCheck under the
requirements established by the Transpor-
tation Security Administration, his or her
participation in TSA PreCheck shall termi-
nate on the date that is 5 years after the
date on which such enrollment is approved
unless such enrollment is renewed in accord-
ance with applicable law.
(2) REVOCATION.—An individual’s participa-
tion in TSA PreCheck that was initiated
through the process established under sub-
section (a)—
(A) shall be revoked if the underlying em-
ployment is terminated or suspended, as de-
termined by the sponsoring agency; and
(B) may be revoked, at the discretion of
the Attorney General and the Administrator,
based on the termination of the underlying
employment if such termination is a result
of—
(i) a voluntary change of the individual’s
employment; or
(ii) the expiration of the term of service in
a particular position to which an individual
was appointed.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON EXPANDED ENROLLMENT
FOR TRUSTED TRAVELER PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection and the Administrator of the
Transportation Security Administration, in
consultation with the Attorney General, the
Director of the National Background Inves-
tigations Bureau of the Office of Personnel
Management, and other appropriate depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment, shall submit a report to Congress on
the feasibility of expanding the enrollment
processes established under sections 3 and 4
to the Trusted Traveler Programs listed in
subsection (b).
(b) TRUSTED TRAVELER PROGRAMS.—The
programs listed in this subsection are—
(1) Global Entry;
(2) SENTRI;
(3) NEXUS; and
(4) any travel facilitation program that is
similar to any of the programs listed in para-
graphs (1) though (3) and has been designated
by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be
included in the report required under sub-
section (a).
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
REED, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1354. A bill to require certain pro-
tections for student loan borrowers,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1354
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Student
Loan Borrower Bill of Rights’’.
SEC. 2. HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965 AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) STUDENT LOAN INFORMATION BY ELIGI-
BLE LENDERS.—Section 433 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1083) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (12), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in paragraph (13), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(14) a statement that—
‘‘(A) the borrower may be entitled to serv-
icemember and veteran benefits under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) and other Federal or State
laws; and
‘‘(B) a Servicemember and Veterans Liai-
son designated under section 128(e)(16)(K)(i)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(16)(K)(i)) is available to answer in-
quiries about servicemember and veteran
benefits, including the toll-free telephone
number to contact the Liaison pursuant to
such section.’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(D) A statement that—
‘‘(i) the borrower may be entitled to serv-
icemember and veteran benefits under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) and other Federal or State
laws; and
‘‘(ii) a Servicemember and Veterans Liai-
son designated under section 128(e)(16)(K)(i)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(16)(K)(i)) is available to answer in-
quiries about servicemember and veteran
benefits, including the toll-free telephone
number to contact the Liaison pursuant to
such section.
‘‘(E) A statement that a repayment spe-
cialist office or unit designated under sec-
tion 128(e)(16)(J)(i) of the Truth in Lending
Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)(16)(J)(i)) is available to
answer inquiries related to alternative re-
payment options, including the toll-free tele-
phone number to contact the specialist pur-
suant to section 128(e)(16)(J)(iii) of such
Act.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(F) A statement that—
‘‘(i) the borrower may be entitled to serv-
icemember and veteran benefits under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) and other Federal or State
laws; and
‘‘(ii) a Servicemember and Veterans Liai-
son designated under section 128(e)(16)(K)(i)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(16)(K)(i)) is available to answer in-
quiries about servicemember and veteran
benefits, including the toll-free telephone
number to contact the Liaison pursuant to
such section.
‘‘(G) A statement that a repayment spe-
cialist office or unit designated under sec-
tion 128(e)(16)(J)(i) of the Truth in Lending
Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)(16)(J)(i)) is available to
answer inquiries related to alternative re-
payment options, including the toll-free tele-
phone number to contact the specialist pur-
suant to section 128(e)(16)(J)(iii) of such
Act.’’.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LOANS.—Sec-
tion 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1087e) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(r) PREPAYMENT AND PAYMENT APPLICA-
TION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A borrower may prepay
all or part of a loan made under this part at
any time without penalty.
‘‘(2) PREPAYMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If a borrower pays any
amount in excess of the amount due for a
loan made under this part, the excess
amount shall be a prepayment.
‘‘(B) APPLICATION OF PREPAYMENT.—If a
prepayment equals or exceeds the monthly
repayment amount under the borrower’s re-
payment plan with respect to a loan made
under this part, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) apply the prepaid amount according to
the terms of the promissory note signed by
the borrower; and
‘‘(ii) upon request of the borrower, advance
the due date of the next payment and notify
the borrower of any revised due date for the
next payment.’’.
(c) CONTRACTS.—Section 456 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087f) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph
(3) and inserting the following:
‘‘(3) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(A) CONSORTIA.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed as a limitation of the au-
thority of any State agency to enter into an
agreement for the purposes of this section as
a member of a consortium of State agencies.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.004 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2692 May 7, 2019
‘‘(B) COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL
LAWS.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued as altering, limiting, or affecting any
obligation by an entity with which the Sec-
retary enters into a contract under this sec-
tion to comply with any applicable Federal
or State law, including any Federal con-
sumer financial law, as defined in section
1002(14) of the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481(14)).
‘‘(C) AUTHORITIES.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering, limiting, or
affecting the authority of a State attorney
general or any other State regulatory or en-
forcement agency or authority to bring an
action or other regulatory proceeding arising
solely under the law of such State.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS UNDER
THE CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION ACT OF
2010.—
‘‘(1) CONSUMER FINANCIAL PRODUCT OR SERV-
ICE.—A consumer financial product or serv-
ice offered by an entity with which the Sec-
retary enters into a contract under this sec-
tion for origination, servicing, or collection
described in subsection (b), as part of such
contract, shall have the meaning given the
term in section 1002 of the Consumer Finan-
cial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481).
‘‘(2) COVERED PERSON.—Any entity with
which the Secretary enters into a contract
under this section for origination, servicing,
or collection described in subsection (b) shall
be considered a ‘covered person’ (as defined
in section 1002 of the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481)) and
subject to the provisions of the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481
et seq.).
‘‘(3) POSTSECONDARY EDUCATIONAL LENDER
OR SERVICER.—Any entity with which the
Secretary enters into a contract under this
section for origination, servicing, or collec-
tion, as described in subsection (b), and is en-
gaged in the provision of, or offering, serv-
icing shall be considered a ‘postsecondary
educational lender or servicer’ (as defined in
section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)), and subject to the provisions
of section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending Act
(12 U.S.C. 1638(e)).
‘‘(e) COMPLAINTS FROM STUDENT LOAN BOR-
ROWERS.—In awarding any contract under
this section for origination, servicing, or col-
lection described in subsection (b), the Sec-
retary shall require, as part of such contract,
any entity receiving such an award—
‘‘(1) to respond to consumer complaints
submitted to any Federal, State, or local
agency that accepts complaints from student
loan borrowers, including the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection, by borrowers
who owe loans made under this part; and
‘‘(2) to share information about consumer
complaints with the Secretary, the Bureau
of Consumer Financial Protection, the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, the Department of
Veterans Affairs, any State attorney gen-
eral, or any other Federal or State regu-
latory or enforcement agency that compiles
information about such complaints.
‘‘(f) LIMITATIONS ON CONTRACTS.—Any enti-
ty with which the Secretary enters into a
contract under this section shall be prohib-
ited, as part of such contract, from mar-
keting to the borrower of a loan made, in-
sured, or guaranteed under this title a finan-
cial product or service—
‘‘(1) using data obtained as a result of the
contract or the relationship with the bor-
rower stemming from the contract;
‘‘(2) during any outreach or contact with
the borrower resulting from the contract or
the relationship with the borrower stemming
from the contract; or
‘‘(3) on any platform or through any meth-
od resulting from the contract or the rela-
tionship with the borrower stemming from
the contract.
‘‘(g) STUDENT LOAN SERVICING INTERAGENCY
WORKING GROUP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of the Student
Loan Borrower Bill of Rights, the Secretary
shall establish a student loan servicing
interagency working group co-chaired by the
Secretary and the Director of the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection and includ-
ing the Chief Operating Officer of the Office
of Federal Student Aid, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, and the heads of any
other relevant Federal departments or agen-
cies.
‘‘(2) ADVISORY REPORT ON RULEMAKING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date the working group under para-
graph (1) is established, the working group
shall publish an advisory report making rec-
ommendations to the Director of the Bureau
of Consumer Financial Protection related to
the promulgation of regulations under sec-
tion 128(e)(17)(A) of the Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C. 1638(e)(17)(A)) with respect to enti-
ties with which the Secretary has entered
into a contract under this section.
‘‘(B) PUBLIC FEEDBACK.—Following the pub-
lication of the advisory report required
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
accept, for not less than 60 days, from the
public specific feedback on the recommenda-
tions included in the report.
‘‘(3) PUBLICATION OF FINAL RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—Not later than 30 days following the
conclusion of the public feedback process de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary
shall publish final recommendations for the
Director of the Bureau of Consumer Finan-
cial Protection related to the promulgation
of regulations under section 128(e)(17)(A) of
the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(17)(A)).
‘‘(4) POLICY DIRECTION TO FEDERAL STUDENT
AID.—The working group shall develop policy
direction for the Office of Federal Student
Aid to incorporate, into contracts awarded
under this section, applicable requirements
and standards promulgated under section
128(e)(17)(A) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)(17)(A)) or described in section
128(e)(17)(B)(i)(II) of such Act.
‘‘(5) MEETINGS.—After the Secretary pub-
lishes final recommendations under para-
graph (3), the working group shall meet not
less often than once per year including to—
‘‘(A) evaluate the application of regula-
tions promulgated under section 128(e)(17)(A)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(17)(A)) on entities with which the Sec-
retary has entered into a contract under this
section;
‘‘(B) evaluate the Office of Federal Student
Aid’s implementation of policy direction de-
veloped pursuant to paragraph (4);
‘‘(C) develop and implement an oversight
plan to ensure compliance by entities with
which the Secretary has entered into a con-
tract under this section with policy direction
developed under paragraph (4) and regula-
tions promulgated under section 128(e)(17)(A)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1638(e)(17)(A)) or described in section
128(e)(17)(B)(i)(II) of such Act; and
‘‘(D) undertake other activities to improve
coordination among the members of the
working group as it relates to the Sec-
retary’s administration of the Federal Direct
Loan Program.
‘‘(6) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be considered to alter,
limit, or restrict the Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection’s obligations under chap-
ter 5 of title 5, United States Code (com-
monly known as the ‘Administrative Proce-
dures Act’), including the Director’s obliga-
tion to provide notice, solicit public com-
ment, and respond to such comment when
issuing regulations.’’.
SEC. 3. TRUTH IN LENDING ACT AMENDMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 128 (15 U.S.C. 1638)—
(A) in subsection (e)—
(i) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘PRIVATE’’;
(ii) in paragraph (1)(O), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (6)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (10)’’;
(iii) in paragraph (2)(L), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (6)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (10)’’;
(iv) in paragraph (4)(C), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (7)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (11)’’;
(v) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through
(11) as paragraphs (9) through (15), respec-
tively;
(vi) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(5) DISCLOSURES BEFORE FIRST FULLY AM-
ORTIZED PAYMENT.—Not fewer than 30 days
and not more than 150 days before the first
fully amortized payment on a postsecondary
education loan is due from the borrower, the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
shall disclose to the borrower, clearly and
conspicuously—
‘‘(A) the information described in—
‘‘(i) paragraph (2)(A) (adjusted, as nec-
essary, for the rate of interest in effect on
the date the first fully amortized payment
on a postsecondary education loan is due);
‘‘(ii) subparagraphs (B) through (G) of
paragraph (2);
‘‘(iii) paragraph (2)(H) (adjusted, as nec-
essary, for the rate of interest in effect on
the date the first fully amortized payment
on a postsecondary education loan is due);
‘‘(iv) paragraph (2)(K); and
‘‘(v) subparagraphs (O) and (P) of para-
graph (2);
‘‘(B) the scheduled date upon which the
first fully amortized payment is due;
‘‘(C) the name of the postsecondary edu-
cational lender and servicer, and the address
to which communications and payments
should be sent including a telephone number
and website where the borrower may obtain
additional information;
‘‘(D) a description of alternative repay-
ment options, including Federal Direct Con-
solidation Loans under part D of title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1087a et seq.), as applicable, and servicemem-
ber or veteran benefits under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) or other Federal or State
law related to postsecondary education
loans; and
‘‘(E) a statement that a Servicemember
and Veterans Liaison designated under para-
graph (16)(K) is available to answer inquiries
about servicemember and veteran benefits
related to postsecondary education loans, in-
cluding the toll-free telephone number to
contact the Liaison pursuant to paragraph
(16)(K).
‘‘(6) DISCLOSURES WHEN BORROWER IS AT-
RISK.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not more than 5 days
after a postsecondary educational lender or
servicer determines that a borrower meets
the criteria established in paragraph
(16)(J)(i), the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer shall disclose to the bor-
rower, in writing, clearly and conspicuously
that a repayment specialist office or unit is
available to discuss alternative repayment
options and answer borrower inquiries re-
lated to their postsecondary educational
loan, including the toll-free number to con-
tact the office or unit pursuant to paragraph
(16)(J)(iii).
‘‘(B) OUTREACH TO AT-RISK BORROWERS.—
The Director, in accordance with paragraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2693
May 7, 2019
(17)(A), shall promulgate rules to establish a
timeline for additional live outreach by the
repayment specialist office or unit to at-risk
borrowers.
‘‘(7) ACTIONS WHEN BORROWER IS 30 DAYS DE-
LINQUENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not more than 5 days
after a borrower becomes 30 days delinquent
on a postsecondary education loan, the re-
payment specialist office or unit designated
under paragraph (16)(J) shall—
‘‘(i) make a good faith effort to establish
live contact with the borrower to discuss al-
ternative repayment options and other op-
tions available to avoid default; and
‘‘(ii) disclose to the borrower, in writing,
clearly and conspicuously—
‘‘(I) the minimum payment that the bor-
rower must make to bring the loan current;
‘‘(II) a statement, related to potential
charge off (as defined in paragraph (16)(A)) or
assignment to collections as appropriate, to
include—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the loan will be
charged-off or assigned to collections if no
payment or the minimum payment required
to be disclosed pursuant to item (bb) is not
made;
‘‘(bb) the minimum payment that must be
made to avoid the loan being charged off or
assigned to collection; and
‘‘(cc) the consequences to the borrower of
charge off or assignment to collections;
‘‘(III) a statement that a Servicemember
and Veterans Liaison designated under para-
graph (16)(K) is available to answer inquiries
about servicemember and veteran benefits
related to postsecondary education loans, in-
cluding the toll-free telephone number to
contact the Liaison pursuant to paragraph
(16)(K); and
‘‘(IV) a statement that a repayment spe-
cialist office or unit designated under para-
graph (16)(J) is available to answer inquiries
related to alternative repayment options, in-
cluding the toll-free telephone number to
contact the specialist pursuant to paragraph
(16)(J)(iii).
‘‘(B) MODIFICATIONS.—The disclosures de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(ii) may be modi-
fied subject to regulations promulgated by
the Director, based on consumer testing and
in accordance with paragraph (17)(A).
‘‘(8) ACTIONS WHEN BORROWER IS HAVING DIF-
FICULTY MAKING PAYMENT OR IS 60 DAYS DELIN-
QUENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not more than 5 days
after a borrower notifies a postsecondary
educational lender or servicer that the bor-
rower is having difficulty making payment
or a borrower becomes 60 days delinquent on
a postsecondary education loan, the repay-
ment specialist office or unit designated
under paragraph (16)(J) shall—
‘‘(i) complete a full review of the bor-
rower’s postsecondary education loan and
make a reasonable effort to obtain the infor-
mation necessary to determine—
‘‘(I) if the borrower is eligible for an alter-
native repayment option, including Federal
Direct Consolidation Loans under part D of
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.), as applicable;
‘‘(II) if the borrower is eligible for service-
member or veteran benefits under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) or other Federal or State
law related to postsecondary education
loans; and
‘‘(III) if the postsecondary education loan
is eligible for discharge by the Secretary;
‘‘(ii) make a good faith effort to establish
live contact with the borrower to provide the
borrower information about alternative re-
payment options and benefits for which the
borrower is eligible, including all terms, con-
ditions, and fees or costs associated with
such repayment plan, pursuant to paragraph
(9)(D);
‘‘(iii) provide to the borrower in writing, in
simple and understandable terms, such infor-
mation required by clause (ii);
‘‘(iv) allow the borrower not less than 30
days to apply for an alternative repayment
option or benefits, if eligible;
‘‘(v) notify the borrower that a Service-
member and Veterans Liaison designated
under paragraph (16)(K) is available to an-
swer inquiries about servicemember and vet-
eran benefits related to postsecondary edu-
cation loans, including the toll-free tele-
phone number to contact the Liaison pursu-
ant to paragraph (16)(K); and
‘‘(vi) notify the borrower that a repayment
specialist office or unit designated under
paragraph (16)(J) is available to answer in-
quiries related to alternative repayment op-
tions, including the toll-free telephone num-
ber to contact the specialist pursuant to
paragraph (16)(J)(iii).
‘‘(B) FORBEARANCE OR DEFERMENT.—If,
after receiving information about alter-
native repayment options from the repay-
ment specialist, a borrower notifies the post-
secondary educational lender or servicer
that a long-term alternative repayment op-
tion is not appropriate, the postsecondary
educational lender or servicer may comply
with this paragraph by providing the bor-
rower, in writing, in simple and understand-
able terms, information about short-term op-
tions to address an anticipated short-term
difficulty in making payments, such as for-
bearance or deferment options, including all
terms, conditions, and fees or costs associ-
ated with such options pursuant to para-
graph (9)(D).
‘‘(C) NOTIFICATION PROCESS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Each postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer shall establish a
process, in accordance with subparagraph
(A), for a borrower to notify the lender
that—
‘‘(I) the borrower is having difficulty mak-
ing payments on a postsecondary education
loan; and
‘‘(II) a long-term alternative repayment
option is not appropriate.
‘‘(ii) CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BU-
REAU REQUIREMENTS.—The Director shall,
based on consumer testing, and in accord-
ance with paragraph (17)(A), promulgate
rules establishing minimum standards for
postsecondary educational lender or
servicers in carrying out the requirements of
this paragraph and a model form for bor-
rowers to notify postsecondary educational
lender or servicers of the information under
this paragraph.’’;
(vii) in paragraph (9), as redesignated by
clause (v), by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(D) MODEL DISCLOSURE FORM FOR ALTER-
NATIVE REPAYMENT OPTIONS, FORBEARANCE,
AND DEFERMENT OPTIONS.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of the Stu-
dent Loan Borrower Bill of Rights, the Di-
rector shall, based on consumer testing and
through regulations promulgated in accord-
ance with paragraph (17)(A), develop and
issue model forms to allow borrowers to
compare alternative repayment options, for-
bearance, and deferment options with the
borrower’s existing repayment plan with re-
spect to a postsecondary education loan. In
developing such forms, the Director shall
consider and evaluate the following for in-
clusion:
‘‘(i) The total amount to be paid over the
life of the loan.
‘‘(ii) The total amount in interest to be
paid over the life of the loan.
‘‘(iii) The monthly payment amount.
‘‘(iv) The expected pay-off date.
‘‘(v) Other related fees and costs, as appli-
cable.
‘‘(vi) Eligibility requirements, and how the
borrower can apply for an alternative repay-
ment option, forbearance, or deferment op-
tion.
‘‘(vii) Any relevant consequences due to ac-
tion or inaction, such as default, including
any actions that would result in the loss of
eligibility for alternative repayment op-
tions, forbearance, or deferment options.’’;
(viii) in paragraph (12), as redesignated by
clause (v), by striking ‘‘paragraph (7)’’ and
inserting ‘‘paragraph (11)’’;
(ix) by striking paragraph (14), as redesig-
nated by clause (v), and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(14) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
‘‘(A) the terms ‘covered educational insti-
tution’, ‘private educational lender’, and
‘private education loan’ have the same
meanings as in section 140;
‘‘(B) the term ‘postsecondary education
loan’ means—
‘‘(i) a private education loan; or
‘‘(ii) a loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under part B, D, or E of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.,
1087a et seq., and 1087aa et seq.);
‘‘(C) the term ‘postsecondary educational
lender or servicer’ means—
‘‘(i) an eligible lender of a loan made, in-
sured, or guaranteed under part B of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071
et seq.);
‘‘(ii) any entity with which the Secretary
enters into a contract under section 456 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1087f) for origination, servicing, or collection
described in subsection (b) of such section 456
and is engaged in the provision of, or offer-
ing, servicing, as defined in paragraph
(16)(A)(iv), or collections regardless of
whether the Secretary identifies the entity
as a ‘servicer’ in such contract;
‘‘(iii) a private educational lender;
‘‘(iv) any other person or entity engaged in
the business of securing, making, or extend-
ing postsecondary education loans on behalf
of a person or entity described in clause (i)
or (iii); or
‘‘(v) any other holder of a postsecondary
education loan other than the Secretary;
‘‘(D) the term ‘Director’ means the Direc-
tor of the Bureau; and
‘‘(E) the term ‘Secretary’ means the Sec-
retary of Education.’’;
(x) in paragraph (15), as redesignated by
clause (v), by striking ‘‘paragraph (5)’’ and
inserting ‘‘paragraph (9)’’; and
(xi) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(16) STUDENT LOAN BORROWER BILL OF
RIGHTS.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
‘‘(i) BORROWER.—The term ‘borrower’
means the person to whom a postsecondary
education loan is extended.
‘‘(ii) CHARGE OFF.—The term ‘charge off’
means charge to profit and loss, or subject to
any similar action.
‘‘(iii) QUALIFIED WRITTEN REQUEST.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified writ-
ten request’ means a written correspondence
of a borrower (other than notice on a pay-
ment medium supplied by the postsecondary
educational lender or servicer) transmitted
by mail, facsimile, or electronically through
an email address or website designated by
the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer to receive communications from
borrowers that—
‘‘(aa) includes, or otherwise enables the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
to identify, the name and account of the bor-
rower; and
‘‘(bb) includes, to the extent applicable—
‘‘(AA) sufficient detail regarding the infor-
mation sought by the borrower; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2694 May 7, 2019
‘‘(BB) a statement of the reasons for the
belief of the borrower that there is an error
regarding the account of the borrower.
‘‘(II) CORRESPONDENCE DELIVERED TO OTHER
ADDRESSES.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—A written correspond-
ence of a borrower is a qualified written re-
quest if the written correspondence is trans-
mitted to and received by a postsecondary
educational lender or servicer at a mailing
address, facsimile number, email address, or
website address other than the address or
number designated by that postsecondary
educational lender or servicer to receive
communications from borrowers but the
written correspondence meets the require-
ments under items (aa) and (bb) of subclause
(I).
‘‘(bb) DUTY TO TRANSFER.—A postsecondary
educational lender or servicer shall, within a
reasonable period of time, transfer a written
correspondence of a borrower received by the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
at a mailing address, facsimile number,
email address, or website address other than
the address or number designated by that
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
to receive communications from borrowers
to the correct address or appropriate office
or other unit of the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer.
‘‘(cc) DATE OF RECEIPT.—A written cor-
respondence of a borrower transferred in ac-
cordance with item (bb) shall be deemed to
be received by the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer on the date on which the
written correspondence is transferred to the
correct address or appropriate office or other
unit of the postsecondary educational lender
or servicer.
‘‘(iv) SERVICING.—The term ‘servicing’
means 1 or more of the following:
‘‘(I) Receiving any scheduled periodic pay-
ments from a borrower or notification of
such payments pursuant to the terms of a
postsecondary education loan or contract
governing the servicing.
‘‘(II) Applying payments to the borrower’s
account pursuant to the terms of the post-
secondary education loan or the contract
governing the servicing.
‘‘(III) Maintaining account records for a
postsecondary education loan.
‘‘(IV) Communicating with a borrower re-
garding a postsecondary education loan on
behalf of the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer.
‘‘(V) Interactions with a borrower, includ-
ing activities to help prevent default on obli-
gations arising from postsecondary edu-
cation loans, conducted to facilitate the ac-
tivities described in subclause (I) or (II).
‘‘(B) SALE, TRANSFER, OR ASSIGNMENT.—If
the sale, other transfer, assignment, or
transfer of servicing obligations of a postsec-
ondary education loan results in a change in
the identity of the party to whom the bor-
rower must send subsequent payments or di-
rect any communications concerning the
loan—
‘‘(i) the transferor shall—
‘‘(I) notify the borrower, in writing, in sim-
ple and understandable terms, not fewer
than 45 days before transferring a legally en-
forceable right to receive payment from the
borrower on such loan, of—
‘‘(aa) the sale or other transfer, assign-
ment, or transfer of servicing obligations;
‘‘(bb) the identity of the transferee;
‘‘(cc) the name and address of the party to
whom subsequent payments or communica-
tions must be sent;
‘‘(dd) the telephone numbers and websites
of both the transferor and the transferee;
‘‘(ee) the effective date of the sale, trans-
fer, or assignment;
‘‘(ff) the date on which the transferor will
stop accepting payment; and
‘‘(gg) the date on which the transferee will
begin accepting payment; and
‘‘(II) forward any payment from a borrower
with respect to such postsecondary edu-
cation loan to the transferee, immediately
upon receiving such payment, during the 60-
day period beginning on the date on which
the transferor stops accepting payment of
such postsecondary education loan;
‘‘(III) provide to the transferee all bor-
rower information and complete payment
history information for any such postsec-
ondary education loans; and
‘‘(ii) the transferee shall—
‘‘(I) notify the borrower, in writing, in sim-
ple and understandable terms, not fewer
than 45 days before acquiring a legally en-
forceable right to receive payment from the
borrower on such loan, of—
‘‘(aa) the sale or other transfer, assign-
ment, or transfer of servicing obligations;
‘‘(bb) the identity of the transferor:
‘‘(cc) the name and address of the party to
whom subsequent payments or communica-
tions must be sent;
‘‘(dd) the telephone numbers and websites
of both the transferor and the transferee;
‘‘(ee) the effective date of the sale, trans-
fer, assignment, or transfer of servicing obli-
gations;
‘‘(ff) the date on which the transferor will
stop accepting payment; and
‘‘(gg) the date on which the transferee will
begin accepting payment;
‘‘(II) accept as on-time and may not impose
any late fee or finance charge for any pay-
ment from a borrower with respect to such
postsecondary education loan that is for-
warded from the transferor during the 90-day
period beginning on the date on which the
transferor stops accepting payment, if the
transferor receives such payment on or be-
fore the applicable due date, including any
grace period;
‘‘(III) provide borrowers a simple, online
process for transferring existing electronic
fund transfer authority; and
‘‘(IV) honor any promotion or benefit
available or granted to the borrower or ad-
vertised by the previous owner or transferor
of such postsecondary education loan.
‘‘(C) MATERIAL CHANGE IN MAILING ADDRESS
OR PROCEDURE FOR HANDLING PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer makes a change
in the mailing address, office, or procedures
for handling payments with respect to any
postsecondary education loan, the postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer shall
notify the borrower in writing and through
the borrower’s preferred or designated meth-
od of communication not less than 45 cal-
endar days in advance of such change.
‘‘(ii) BORROWER PROTECTION WINDOW.—If a
change described in clause (i) causes a delay
in the crediting of the account of the bor-
rower made during the 90-day period fol-
lowing the date on which such change took
effect, the postsecondary educational lender
or servicer may not impose on the borrower
any negative consequences, including nega-
tive credit reporting, lost eligibility in bor-
rower benefits, late fees, interest capitaliza-
tion, or other financial injury.
‘‘(D) INTEREST RATE AND TERM CHANGES FOR
CERTAIN POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION LOANS.—
‘‘(i) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), a postsecondary educational
lender or servicer shall provide written no-
tice to a borrower of any material change in
the terms of the postsecondary education
loan, including an increase in the interest
rate, not later than 45 days before the effec-
tive date of the change or increase.
‘‘(II) MATERIAL CHANGES IN TERMS.—The Di-
rector shall, by regulation, establish guide-
lines for determining which changes in terms
are material under subclause (I).
‘‘(ii) LIMITS ON INTEREST RATE AND FEE IN-
CREASES APPLICABLE TO OUTSTANDING BAL-
ANCE.—Except as provided in clause (iii), a
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
may not increase the interest rate or other
fee applicable to an outstanding balance on a
postsecondary education loan.
‘‘(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—The requirements
under clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to—
‘‘(I) an increase based on an applicable
variable interest rate incorporated in the
terms of a postsecondary education loan that
provides for changes in the interest rate ac-
cording to operation of an index that is not
under the control of the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer and is published
for viewing by the general public;
‘‘(II) an increase in interest rate due to the
completion of a workout or temporary hard-
ship arrangement by the borrower or the
failure of the borrower to comply with the
terms of a workout or temporary hardship
arrangement if—
‘‘(aa) the interest rate applicable to a cat-
egory of transactions following any such in-
crease does not exceed the rate or fee that
applied to that category of transactions
prior to commencement of the arrangement;
and
‘‘(bb) the postsecondary educational lender
or servicer has provided the borrower, prior
to the commencement of such arrangement,
with clear and conspicuous disclosure of the
terms of the arrangement (including any in-
creases due to such completion or failure);
and
‘‘(III) an increase in interest rate due to a
provision included within the terms of a
postsecondary education loan that provides
for a lower interest rate based on the bor-
rower’s agreement to a prearranged plan
that authorizes recurring electronic funds
transfers if—
‘‘(aa) the borrower withdraws the bor-
rower’s authorization of the prearranged re-
curring electronic funds transfer plan; and
‘‘(bb) after withdrawal of the borrower’s
authorization and prior to increasing the in-
terest rate, the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer has provided the borrower
with clear and conspicuous disclosure of the
impending change in borrower’s interest rate
and a reasonable opportunity to reauthorize
the prearranged electronic funds transfers
plan.
‘‘(E) PAYMENT INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) STATEMENT REQUIRED WITH EACH BILL-
ING CYCLE.—A postsecondary educational
lender or servicer for each borrower’s ac-
count that is being serviced by the postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer and
that includes a postsecondary education loan
shall transmit to the borrower, for each bill-
ing cycle during which there is an out-
standing balance in that account, a state-
ment that includes—
‘‘(I) the interest rate, principal balance,
minimum monthly payment, and payment
due date for each loan;
‘‘(II) the outstanding balance in the ac-
count and each loan at the beginning of the
billing cycle;
‘‘(III) the total amount credited to the ac-
count and each loan during the billing cycle;
‘‘(IV) the total amount of unpaid interest
for the account and each loan;
‘‘(V) the amount of any fee added to the ac-
count during the billing cycle, itemized to
show each individual fee amount and reason
for each fee;
‘‘(VI) the address and phone number of the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
to which the borrower may direct billing in-
quiries;
‘‘(VII) the amount of any payments or
other credits during the billing cycle that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2695
May 7, 2019
was applied respectively to the principal and
to interest for each loan;
‘‘(VIII) the manner, pursuant to subpara-
graph (G), in which payments will be allo-
cated among multiple loans if the borrower
does not provide specific payment instruc-
tions;
‘‘(IX) whether each loan is in deferment or
forbearance;
‘‘(X) information on how to file a com-
plaint with the Bureau and with the ombuds-
man designated pursuant to section 1035 of
the Consumer Financial Protection Act of
2010 (12 U.S.C. 5535) and the Department of
Education;
‘‘(XI) for any borrower considered to be at-
risk, as described in subparagraph (J)(i), a
statement that a repayment specialist office
or unit designated under subparagraph (J) is
available to answer inquiries related to al-
ternative repayment options, including the
toll-free telephone number to contact the
specialist pursuant to subparagraph (J)(iii);
and
‘‘(XII) any other information determined
appropriate by the Director through regula-
tions promulgated, based on consumer test-
ing and in accordance with paragraph (17)(A).
‘‘(ii) DISCLOSURE OF PAYMENT DEADLINES.—
In the case of a postsecondary education
loan account under which a late fee or
charge may be imposed due to the failure of
the borrower to make payment on or before
the due date for such payment, the billing
statement required under clause (i) with re-
spect to the account shall include, in a con-
spicuous location on the billing statement,
the date on which the payment is due or, if
different, the date on which a late fee will be
charged, together with the amount of the
late fee to be imposed if payment is made
after that date.
‘‘(F) APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(i) APPLY PAYMENT ON DATE RECEIVED.—
Unless otherwise directed by the borrower, a
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
shall apply payments to a borrower’s ac-
count on the date the payment is received.
‘‘(ii) PROMULGATION OF RULES.—The Direc-
tor, in accordance with paragraph (17)(A),
may promulgate rules for the application of
postsecondary education loan payments
that—
‘‘(I) implements the requirements in this
section;
‘‘(II) minimizes the amount of fees and in-
terest incurred by the borrower and the total
loan amount paid by the borrower;
‘‘(III) minimizes delinquencies, assign-
ments to collection, and charge-offs;
‘‘(IV) requires postsecondary educational
lenders or servicers to apply payments on
the date received; and
‘‘(V) allows the borrower to instruct the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
to apply payments in a manner preferred by
the borrower.
‘‘(iii) METHOD THAT BEST BENEFITS BOR-
ROWER.—In promulgating the rules under
clause (ii), the Director shall choose the allo-
cation method that best benefits the bor-
rower and is compatible with existing repay-
ment options.
‘‘(G) ALLOCATION OF PAYMENTS AMONG MUL-
TIPLE LOANS.—
‘‘(i) ALLOCATION OF UNDERPAYMENTS.—Un-
less otherwise directed by the borrower,
upon receipt of a payment that does not sat-
isfy the full amount due for each postsec-
ondary education loan, the postsecondary
educational lender or servicer shall allocate
amounts in a manner that minimizes nega-
tive consequences, including negative credit
reporting and late fees, and, where multiple
loans share an equal stage of delinquency,
the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer shall first allocate payment to the
postsecondary education loan with the
smallest monthly payment, and then, after
satisfying that monthly payment, to each
successive loan bearing the next highest
monthly payment, until the payment is ex-
hausted. A borrower may instruct or ex-
pressly authorize a postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer to allocate pay-
ments in a different manner.
‘‘(ii) ALLOCATION OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—Un-
less otherwise directed by the borrower,
upon receipt of a payment exceeding the
total amount due among all the borrower’s
postsecondary education loans, the postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer shall
satisfy the amounts due for each loan, and
then allocate amounts in excess of the min-
imum payment amount first to the postsec-
ondary education loan balance bearing the
highest annual percentage rate, and then,
once that loan is repaid, to each successive
postsecondary education loan bearing the
next highest annual percentage rate, until
the payment is exhausted. A borrower may
instruct or expressly authorize a postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer to al-
locate such excess payments in a different
manner.
‘‘(iii) ALLOCATION OF EXACT PAYMENTS.—
Unless otherwise directed by the borrower
upon receipt of a payment that exactly satis-
fies the monthly payments for each loan, the
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
shall allocate payments to satisfy each
monthly payment.
‘‘(iv) PROMULGATION OF RULES.—The Direc-
tor, in accordance with paragraph (17)(A),
may promulgate rules for the allocation of
payments among multiple postsecondary
education loans that—
‘‘(I) implements the requirements in this
section;
‘‘(II) minimizes the amount of fees and in-
terest incurred by the borrower and the total
loan amount paid by the borrower;
‘‘(III) minimizes delinquencies, assign-
ments to collection, and charge-offs;
‘‘(IV) requires postsecondary educational
lenders or servicers to apply payments on
the date received; and
‘‘(V) allows the borrower to instruct post-
secondary educational lenders or servicers to
apply payments in a manner preferred by the
borrower, including excess payments.
‘‘(v) METHOD THAT BEST BENEFITS BOR-
ROWER.—In promulgating the rules under
clause (iv), the Director shall choose the al-
location method that best benefits the bor-
rower and is compatible with existing repay-
ment options.
‘‘(H) LATE FEES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A late fee may not be
charged to a borrower for a postsecondary
education loan under any of the following
circumstances, either individually or in com-
bination:
‘‘(I) On a per-loan basis when a borrower
has multiple postsecondary education loans.
‘‘(II) In an amount greater than 4 percent
of the amount of the payment past due.
‘‘(III) Before the end of the 15-day period
beginning on the date the payment is due.
‘‘(IV) More than once with respect to a sin-
gle late payment.
‘‘(V) The borrower fails to make a singular,
non-successive regularly-scheduled payment
on the postsecondary education loan.
‘‘(ii) COORDINATION WITH SUBSEQUENT LATE
FEES.—No late fee may be charged to a bor-
rower for a postsecondary education loan re-
lating to an insufficient payment if the pay-
ment is made on or before the due date of the
payment, or within any applicable grace pe-
riod for the payment, if the insufficiency is
attributable only to a late fee relating to an
earlier payment, and the payment is other-
wise a full payment for the applicable period.
‘‘(iii) PAYMENTS AT LOCAL BRANCHES.—If
the loan holder, in the case of a postsec-
ondary education loan account referred to in
subparagraph (A), is a financial institution
that maintains a branch or office at which
payments on any such account are accepted
from the borrower in person, the date on
which the borrower makes a payment on the
account at such branch or office shall be con-
sidered to be the date on which the payment
is made for purposes of determining whether
a late fee may be imposed due to the failure
of the borrower to make payment on or be-
fore the due date for such payment.
‘‘(I) BORROWER INQUIRIES.—
‘‘(i) DUTY OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATIONAL
LENDERS OR SERVICERS TO RESPOND TO BOR-
ROWER INQUIRIES.—
‘‘(I) NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF REQUEST.—If a
borrower submits a qualified written request
to the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer for information relating to the serv-
icing of the postsecondary education loan,
the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer shall provide a written response ac-
knowledging receipt of the qualified written
request within 5 business days unless any ac-
tion requested by the borrower is taken
within such period.
‘‘(II) ACTION WITH RESPECT TO INQUIRY.—Not
later than 30 business days after the receipt
from a borrower of a qualified written re-
quest under subclause (I) and, if applicable,
before taking any action with respect to the
qualified written request of the borrower,
the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer shall—
‘‘(aa) make appropriate corrections in the
account of the borrower, including the cred-
iting of any late fees, and transmit to the
borrower a written notification of such cor-
rection (which shall include the name and
toll-free or collect-call telephone number of
a representative of the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer who can provide
assistance to the borrower);
‘‘(bb) after conducting an investigation,
provide the borrower with a written expla-
nation or clarification that includes—
‘‘(AA) to the extent applicable, a state-
ment of the reasons for which the postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer be-
lieves the account of the borrower is correct
as determined by the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer; and
‘‘(BB) the name and toll-free or collect-call
telephone number of an individual employed
by, or the office or department of, the post-
secondary educational lender or servicer who
can provide assistance to the borrower; or
‘‘(cc) after conducting an investigation,
provide the borrower with a written expla-
nation or clarification that includes—
‘‘(AA) information requested by the bor-
rower or explanation of why the information
requested is unavailable or cannot be ob-
tained by the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer; and
‘‘(BB) the name and toll-free or collect-call
telephone number of an individual employed
by, or the office or department of, the post-
secondary educational lender or servicer who
can provide assistance to the borrower.
‘‘(III) LIMITED EXTENSION OF RESPONSE
TIME.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—There may be 1 exten-
sion of the 30-day period described in sub-
clause (II) of not more than 15 days if, before
the end of such 30-day period, the postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer noti-
fies the borrower of the extension and the
reasons for the delay in responding.
‘‘(bb) REPORTS TO BUREAU.—Each postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer shall,
on an annual basis, report to the Bureau the
aggregate number of extensions sought by
the such postsecondary educational lender or
servicer under item (aa).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2696 May 7, 2019
‘‘(ii) PROTECTION AGAINST NEGATIVE CON-
SEQUENCES.—During the 60-day period begin-
ning on the date on which a postsecondary
educational lender or servicer receives a
qualified written request from a borrower re-
lating to a dispute regarding payments by
the borrower, a postsecondary educational
lender or servicer may not impose any nega-
tive consequences on the borrower relating
to the subject of the qualified written re-
quest or to such period including—
‘‘(I) providing negative credit information
to any consumer reporting agency (as de-
fined in section 603 of the Fair Credit Report-
ing Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a));
‘‘(II) lost eligibility for a borrower benefit;
‘‘(III) late fees;
‘‘(IV) interest capitalization; or
‘‘(V) other financial injury.
‘‘(J) REPAYMENT SPECIALISTS FOR AT-RISK
BORROWERS.—
‘‘(i) AT-RISK BORROWERS.—A postsecondary
educational lender or servicer shall des-
ignate an office or other unit to act as a re-
payment specialist regarding postsecondary
education loans for—
‘‘(I) any borrower who—
‘‘(aa) becomes 30 calendar days or more de-
linquent under the postsecondary education
loan; or
‘‘(bb) notifies the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer pursuant to para-
graph (8)(C) that the borrower is having dif-
ficulty making payment;
‘‘(II) any borrower who requests informa-
tion related to options to reduce or suspend
the borrower’s monthly payment, or other-
wise indicates that the borrower is experi-
encing or is about to experience financial
hardship or distress;
‘‘(III) any borrower who has not completed
the program of study for which the borrower
received the loans;
‘‘(IV) any borrower who is enrolled in dis-
cretionary forbearance for more than 9 of the
previous 12 months;
‘‘(V) any borrower who has rehabilitated or
consolidated 1 or more postsecondary edu-
cation loans out of default within the prior
24 months;
‘‘(VI) a borrower who seeks information re-
garding, seeks to enter an agreement for, or
seeks to resolve an issue under a repayment
option that requires subsequent submission
of supporting documentation;
‘‘(VII) a borrower who seeks to modify the
terms of the repayment of the postsecondary
education loan because of hardship; and
‘‘(VIII) any borrower or segment of bor-
rowers determined by the Director or the
Secretary to be at-risk.
‘‘(ii) TRAINING.—Staff of the repayment
specialist office or unit designated under
clause (i) shall—
‘‘(I) receive rigorous, ongoing training re-
lated to available repayment plans, loan for-
giveness, and cancellation and discharge op-
tions; and
‘‘(II) be trained to—
‘‘(aa) assess the borrower’s long-term and
short-term financial situation in discussing
alternative repayment options with bor-
rowers;
‘‘(bb) inform borrowers, when there is suffi-
cient information to determine that a bor-
rower may be eligible, about closed-school
discharge, discharge under defense to repay-
ment, or total and permanent disability dis-
charge prior to informing the borrower about
any other options for repayment; and
‘‘(cc) inform borrowers about alternative
repayment options, prior to discussing for-
bearance and deferment.
‘‘(iii) TOLL-FREE TELEPHONE NUMBER.—Each
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
shall maintain a toll-free telephone number
that shall—
‘‘(I) connect directly to the repayment spe-
cialist office or unit designated under clause
(i);
‘‘(II) be made available on the primary
internet website of the postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer, on monthly bill-
ing statements, and any disclosures required
by paragraph (6); and
‘‘(III) not subject borrowers to unreason-
able call wait times.
‘‘(iv) COMPENSATION.—Staff of the repay-
ment specialist office or unit designated
under clause (i) shall not be compensated on
the basis of the volume of calls or accounts
handled, dollar amounts collected, brevity of
calls, or in any other manner that may en-
courage undue haste and lack of diligence or
quality customer service.
‘‘(K) SERVICEMEMBERS, VETERANS, AND
POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION LOANS.—
‘‘(i) SERVICEMEMBER AND VETERANS LIAI-
SON.—Each postsecondary educational lender
or servicer shall designate an employee to
act as the servicemember and veterans liai-
son who is responsible for answering inquir-
ies from servicemembers and veterans, and is
specially trained on servicemember and vet-
eran benefits under the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501 et seq.)
and other Federal or State laws related to
postsecondary education loans.
‘‘(ii) TOLL-FREE TELEPHONE NUMBER.—Each
postsecondary educational lender or servicer
shall maintain a toll-free telephone number
that shall—
‘‘(I) connect directly to the servicemember
and veterans liaison designated under clause
(i);
‘‘(II) be made available on the primary
internet website of postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer and on monthly
billing statements; and
‘‘(III) not subject borrowers to unreason-
able call wait times.
‘‘(iii) PROHIBITION ON CHARGE OFFS AND DE-
FAULT.—A postsecondary educational lender
or servicer may not charge off or report a
postsecondary education loan as delinquent,
assigned to collection (internally or by refer-
ral to a third party), in default, or charged-
off to a credit reporting agency if the bor-
rower is on active duty in the Armed Forces
(as defined in section 101(d)(1) of title 10,
United States Code) serving in a combat zone
(as designated by the President under sec-
tion 112(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986).
‘‘(iv) ADDITIONAL LIAISONS.—The Director,
in consultation with the Secretary, shall de-
termine additional entities with whom bor-
rowers interact, including guaranty agen-
cies, that shall designate an employee to act
as the servicemember and veterans liaison
who is responsible for answering inquiries
from servicemembers and veterans and is
specially trained on servicemembers and vet-
eran benefits and option under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.).
‘‘(L) BORROWER’S LOAN HISTORY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer shall make avail-
able in a secure electronic form usable by
borrowers, or in writing upon request, the
loan history of each borrower for each post-
secondary education loan, separately desig-
nating—
‘‘(I) payment history, including repayment
plan and payments—
‘‘(aa) made on such loan to previous post-
secondary educational lenders or servicers;
and
‘‘(bb) qualifying toward a loan forgiveness
program and designating such program;
‘‘(II) loan history, including any
forbearances, deferrals, delinquencies, as-
signment to collection, and charge offs;
‘‘(III) annual percentage rate history;
‘‘(IV) key loan terms, including applica-
tion of payments to interest, principal, and
fees, origination date, principal, capitalized
interest, annual percentage rate, including
any cap, loan term, and any contractual in-
centives;
‘‘(V) amount due to pay off the outstanding
balance; and
‘‘(VI) any other items determined by the
Director through regulations promulgated in
accordance with paragraph (17)(A).
‘‘(ii) ORIGINAL DOCUMENTATION.—A postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer shall
make available to the borrower, if requested,
at no charge, copies of the original loan doc-
uments and the promissory note for each
postsecondary education loan.
‘‘(M) ERROR RESOLUTION.—The Director, in
consultation with the Secretary, shall pro-
mulgate rules requiring postsecondary edu-
cational lenders or servicers to establish
error resolution procedures to allow bor-
rowers to inquire about errors related to
their postsecondary education loans and ob-
tain timely resolution of such errors.
‘‘(N) ADDITIONAL SERVICING STANDARDS.—
‘‘(i) PROHIBITIONS.—A postsecondary edu-
cational lender or servicer may not—
‘‘(I) charge a fee for responding to a quali-
fied written request under this paragraph;
‘‘(II) fail to take timely action to respond
to a qualified written request from a bor-
rower to correct an error relating to an allo-
cation of payment or the payoff amount of
the postsecondary education loan;
‘‘(III) fail to take reasonable steps to avail
the borrower of all possible alternative re-
payment arrangements to avoid default;
‘‘(IV) fail to perform the obligations re-
quired under title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
‘‘(V) fail to respond within 10 business days
to a request from a borrower to provide the
name, address, and other relevant contact
information of the loan holder of the bor-
rower’s postsecondary education loan or, for
a Federal Direct Loan or a Federal Perkins
Loan, the Secretary of Education, or the in-
stitution of higher education who made the
loan, respectively;
‘‘(VI) fail to comply with any applicable
requirement of the Servicemembers Civil Re-
lief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501 et seq.);
‘‘(VII) charge a convenience, processing, or
any other fee for payments made electroni-
cally or by telephone;
‘‘(VIII) fail to comply with any other obli-
gation that the Bureau, by regulation, has
determined to be appropriate to carry out
the consumer protection purposes of this
paragraph; or
‘‘(IX) fail to perform other standard serv-
icing duties and functions.
‘‘(ii) BUSINESS HOURS.—Postsecondary edu-
cational lenders or servicers shall be open for
borrower inquiries and outreach during and
after normal business hours, including avail-
ability after 5:00 pm in all continental
United States time zones and some weekend
hours.
‘‘(iii) ADDITIONAL STANDARDS.—The Direc-
tor may promulgate regulations, in accord-
ance with paragraph (17)(A), establishing ad-
ditional servicing standards to reduce delin-
quencies, assignment to collections, de-
faults, and charge-offs, and to ensure bor-
rowers understand their rights and obliga-
tions related to their postsecondary edu-
cation loans.
‘‘(O) PROHIBITION ON LIMITING BORROWER
LEGAL ACTION BY POSTSECONDARY EDU-
CATIONAL LENDERS AND SERVICERS.—
‘‘(i) WAIVER OF RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.—Any
rights and remedies available to borrowers
against postsecondary educational lenders or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2697
May 7, 2019
servicers may not be waived by any agree-
ment, policy, or form, including by a manda-
tory predispute arbitration agreement or
class action waiver.
‘‘(ii) PREDISPUTE ARBITRATION AGREE-
MENTS.—No limitation or restriction on the
ability of a borrower to pursue a claim in
court with respect to a postsecondary edu-
cation loan, including mandatory predispute
arbitration agreements and class action
waivers, shall be valid or enforceable by a
postsecondary educational lender or
servicer, including as a third-party bene-
ficiary or by estoppel.
‘‘(P) PREEMPTION.—Nothing in this para-
graph may be construed to preempt any pro-
vision of State law regarding postsecondary
education loans where the State law provides
stronger consumer protections.
‘‘(Q) CIVIL LIABILITY.—A postsecondary
educational lender or servicer that fails to
comply with any requirement imposed under
this paragraph shall be deemed a creditor
that has failed to comply with a requirement
under this chapter for purposes of liability
under section 130 and such postsecondary
educational lender or servicer shall be sub-
ject to the liability provisions under such
section, including the provisions under para-
graphs (1), (2)(A)(i), (2)(B), and (3) of section
130(a).
‘‘(R) ELIGIBILITY FOR DISCHARGE.—The Di-
rector, in accordance with paragraph (17)(A),
shall promulgate rules requiring postsec-
ondary educational lenders and servicers
to—
‘‘(i) identify and contact borrowers who
may be eligible for student loan discharge by
the Secretary, including under section 437 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1087); and
‘‘(ii) provide the borrower, in writing, in
simple and understandable terms, informa-
tion about obtaining such discharge.
‘‘(17) CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BU-
REAU REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) RULEMAKING.—The Director shall,
based on consumer testing (as appropriate)
and upon consideration of any final rec-
ommendations published by the Secretary
under section 456(g)(3) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087f(g)(3)), pro-
mulgate regulations in consultation with the
Secretary, to carry out the requirements of
this subsection.
‘‘(B) COMPLIANCE FOR CERTAIN ENTITIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Director may pro-
mulgate regulations under subparagraph (A)
to require an entity or class of entities with
which the Secretary has entered into a con-
tract under section 456 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087f) to comply
with an alternative requirement or standard
promulgated by the Director in lieu of com-
pliance with any requirement or standard
under this subsection if the Director deter-
mines that—
‘‘(I) such entity or class of entities are not
required by the Secretary pursuant to the
contract to perform a servicing function gov-
erned by the requirement or standard, and
where such function is required by the Sec-
retary, to be performed by another entity or
class of entities; or
‘‘(II) the Secretary, in consultation with
the Chief Operating Officer of Federal Stu-
dent Aid, has promulgated regulations to es-
tablish an alternative requirement or stand-
ard with respect to such entity or class of en-
tities that better benefits or protects bor-
rowers and the Director incorporates such
requirement or standard that better benefits
or protects borrowers into regulations pro-
mulgated under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) REPORTS.—The Director shall report
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate, the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate, the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives,
and the Committee on Education and Labor
of the House of Representatives on any regu-
lations promulgated under clause (i).
‘‘(18) POSTSECONDARY EDUCATIONAL LEND-
ERS OR SERVICERS AND CONTRACTS OR SUB-
CONTRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any person or entity
that enters into a contract or subcontract
with a postsecondary educational lender or
servicer to perform the servicing of a post-
secondary educational loan may fulfill the
obligations of the postsecondary educational
lender or servicer under this subsection.
‘‘(B) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY FOR
SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Any entity or person
described in subparagraph (A) shall be joint-
ly and severally liable for the actions of the
entity or person in fulfilling the obligations
of the postsecondary educational lender or
servicer under this subsection.’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) INFORMATION TO BE AVAILABLE AT NO
CHARGE.—The information required to be dis-
closed under this section shall be made
available at no charge to the borrower.’’; and
(2) in section 130(a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘128(e)(7)’’
and inserting ‘‘128(e)(11)’’; and
(B) in the flush matter at the end, by strik-
ing ‘‘or paragraph (4)(C), (6), (7), or (8) of sec-
tion 128(e),’’ and inserting ‘‘or paragraph
(4)(C), (10), (11), or (12) of section 128(e),’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made
under subsection (a) shall be effective 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) DELAY.—The Director of the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection shall delay
the effective date of the amendments made
under subsection (a) for not more than 1 ad-
ditional year with respect to entities en-
gaged in servicing pursuant to a contract
awarded under section 456 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087f) pending
the Secretary of Education’s final rec-
ommendations required under section 456(g)
of such Act related to the promulgation of
regulations by the Director under section
128(e)(17) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)(17)).
SEC. 4. REHABILITATION OF PRIVATE EDU-
CATION LOANS.
Section 623(a)(1)(E) of the Fair Credit Re-
porting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s–2(a)(1)(E)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(E) REHABILITATION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION
LOANS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a borrower of a private
education loan rehabilitates such loan in ac-
cordance with section 128(e)(23) of the Truth
in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)(23)), the pri-
vate educational lender or entity engaged in
servicing such loan shall request that any
consumer reporting agency to which the
charge-off was reported remove the delin-
quency that led to the charge-off and the
charge-off from the borrower’s credit his-
tory.
‘‘(ii) BANKING AGENCIES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—If a private educational
lender is supervised by a Federal banking
agency, the private educational lender shall
seek written approval from the Federal
banking agency that the terms and condi-
tions of the loan rehabilitation program of
the lender meet the requirements of section
128(e)(23) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)(23)).
‘‘(II) FEEDBACK.—An appropriate Federal
banking agency shall provide feedback to a
private educational lender within 120 days of
a request for approval under subclause (I).
‘‘(iii) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
subparagraph—
‘‘(I) the term ‘appropriate Federal banking
agency’ has the meaning given the term in
section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
‘‘(II) the term ‘private education loan’ has
the meaning given the term in section 140(a)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1650(a)).’’.
SEC. 5. IMPROVED CONSUMER PROTECTIONS
FOR PRIVATE EDUCATION LOANS.
Section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C. 1638(e)), as amended by section 3, is
further amended—
(1) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(19) DISCHARGE OF PRIVATE EDUCATION
LOANS IN THE EVENT OF DEATH OR DISABILITY
OF THE BORROWER.—Each private education
loan shall include terms that provide that
the liability to repay the loan shall be can-
celled—
‘‘(A) upon the death of the borrower;
‘‘(B) if the borrower becomes permanently
and totally disabled, as determined under
section 437(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087(a)(1)) and the regula-
tions promulgated by the Secretary under
that section; or
‘‘(C) if the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or
the Secretary of Defense determines that the
borrower is unemployable due to a service-
connected condition or disability, in accord-
ance with the requirements of section
437(a)(2) of such Act and the regulations pro-
mulgated by the Secretary under that sec-
tion.
‘‘(20) TERMS FOR CO-BORROWERS.—Each pri-
vate education loan shall include terms that
clearly define the requirements to release a
co-borrower from the obligation.
‘‘(21) PROHIBITION OF ACCELERATION OF PAY-
MENTS ON PRIVATE EDUCATION LOANS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), a private education loan
executed after the date of enactment of this
paragraph may not include a provision that
permits the private educational lender, loan
holder, or entity engaged in servicing such
loan to accelerate, in whole or in part, pay-
ments on the private education loan.
‘‘(B) ACCELERATION CAUSED BY A PAYMENT
DEFAULT.—A private education loan may in-
clude a provision that permits acceleration
of the loan in cases of payment default.
‘‘(22) PROHIBITION ON DENIAL OF CREDIT DUE
TO ELIGIBILITY FOR PROTECTION UNDER
SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT.—A pri-
vate educational lender may not deny or
refuse credit to an individual who is entitled
to any right or protection provided under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C.
App. 501 et seq.) or subject, solely by reason
of such entitlement, such individual to any
other action described in paragraphs (1)
through (6) of section 108 of such Act.
‘‘(23) REHABILITATION OF PRIVATE EDU-
CATION LOANS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If a borrower of a pri-
vate education loan successfully and volun-
tarily makes 9 payments within 20 days of
the due date during 10 consecutive months of
amounts owed on the private education loan,
or otherwise brings the private education
loan current after the loan is charged-off,
the loan shall be considered rehabilitated,
and the lender or entity engaged in servicing
such loan shall request that any consumer
reporting agency to which the charge-off was
reported remove the delinquency that led to
the charge-off and the charge-off from the
borrower’s credit history.
‘‘(B) TERMS.—No private educational lend-
er shall offer a borrower rehabilitation of
loans where the payment required to reha-
bilitate a defaulted private education loan is
less than the monthly payment amount re-
quired upon completion of rehabilitation.’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (D) and in-
serting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2698 May 7, 2019
‘‘(D) requirements for a co-borrower, in-
cluding—
‘‘(i) any changes in the applicable interest
rates without a co-borrower; and
‘‘(ii) any conditions the borrower is re-
quired meet in order to release a co-borrower
from the private education loan obligation;’’;
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (O),
(P), (Q), and (R) as subparagraphs (P), (Q),
(R), and (S), respectively; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (N) the
following:
‘‘(O) in the case of a refinancing of edu-
cation loans that include a Federal student
loan made, insured, or guaranteed under
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.)—
‘‘(i) a list containing each loan to be refi-
nanced, which shall identify whether the
loan is a private education loan or a Federal
student loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.); and
‘‘(ii) benefits that the borrower may be for-
feiting, including income-driven repayment
options, opportunities for loan forgiveness,
forbearance or deferment options, interest
subsidies, and tax benefits;’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (O) and
(P) as subparagraphs (P) and (Q), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (N) the
following:
‘‘(O) in the case of a refinancing of edu-
cation loans that include a Federal student
loan made, insured, or guaranteed under
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.)—
‘‘(i) a list containing each loan to be refi-
nanced, which shall identify whether the
loan is a private education loan or a Federal
student loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.); and
‘‘(ii) benefits that the borrower may be for-
feiting, including income-driven repayment
options, opportunities for loan forgiveness,
forbearance or deferment options, interest
subsidies, and tax benefits;’’.
SEC. 6. KNOW BEFORE YOU OWE.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE TRUTH IN LENDING
ACT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 128(e) of the Truth
in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)), as amend-
ed by sections 3 and 5, is further amended—
(A) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(3) INSTITUTIONAL CERTIFICATION RE-
QUIRED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), before a creditor may
issue any funds with respect to an extension
of credit described in this subsection, the
creditor shall obtain from the relevant insti-
tution of higher education where such loan is
to be used for a student, such institution’s
certification of—
‘‘(i) the enrollment status of the student;
‘‘(ii) the student’s cost of attendance at
the institution as determined by the institu-
tion under part F of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087kk et
seq.); and
‘‘(iii) the difference between—
‘‘(I) such cost of attendance; and
‘‘(II) the student’s estimated financial as-
sistance, including such assistance received
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) (except for Fed-
eral Direct PLUS Loans made on behalf of
the student) and other financial assistance
known to the institution, as applicable (ex-
cept for loans made under the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), a creditor may issue funds,
not to exceed the amount described in sub-
paragraph (A)(iii), with respect to an exten-
sion of credit described in this subsection
without obtaining from the relevant institu-
tion of higher education such institution’s
certification if such institution fails to pro-
vide within 15 business days of the creditor’s
request for such certification—
‘‘(i) notification of the institution’s refusal
to certify the request; or
‘‘(ii) notification that the institution has
received the request for certification and
will need additional time to comply with the
certification request.
‘‘(C) LOANS DISBURSED WITHOUT CERTIFI-
CATION.—If a creditor issues funds without
obtaining a certification, as described in sub-
paragraph (B), such creditor shall report the
issuance of such funds in a manner deter-
mined by the Director.’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(24) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO STU-
DENTS.—
‘‘(i) LOAN STATEMENT.—A creditor that
issues any funds with respect to an extension
of credit described in this subsection shall
send loan statements, where such loan is to
be used for a student, to borrowers of such
funds not less than once every 3 months dur-
ing the time that such student is enrolled at
an institution of higher education.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS OF LOAN STATEMENT.—Each
statement described in clause (i) shall—
‘‘(I) report the borrower’s total remaining
debt to the creditor, including accrued but
unpaid interest and capitalized interest;
‘‘(II) report any debt increases since the
last statement; and
‘‘(III) list the current interest rate for each
loan.
‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION OF LOANS DISBURSED
WITHOUT CERTIFICATION.—On or before the
date a creditor issues any funds with respect
to an extension of credit described in this
subsection, the creditor shall notify the rel-
evant institution of higher education, in
writing, of the amount of the extension of
credit and the student on whose behalf credit
is extended. The form of such written notifi-
cation shall be subject to the regulations of
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion.
‘‘(C) ANNUAL REPORT.—A creditor that
issues funds with respect to an extension of
credit described in this subsection shall pre-
pare and submit an annual report to the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection con-
taining the required information about pri-
vate student loans to be determined by the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, in
consultation with the Secretary.’’.
(2) DEFINITION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION
LOAN.—Section 140(a)(8)(A) of the Truth in
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650(a)(8)(A)) is
amended—
(A) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause
(iii);
(B) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon; and
(C) by adding after clause (i) the following:
‘‘(ii) is not made, insured, or guaranteed
under title VII or title VIII of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292 et seq. and
296 et seq.); and’’.
(3) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 365 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Bureau of Consumer Finan-
cial Protection shall issue regulations in
final form to implement paragraphs (3) and
(23) of section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending
Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)), as amended by para-
graph (1). Such regulations shall become ef-
fective not later than 6 months after their
date of issuance.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO THE HIGHER EDUCATION
ACT OF 1965.—
(1) PROGRAM PARTICIPATION AGREEMENTS.—
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)) is amended by striking
paragraph (28) and inserting the following:
‘‘(28)(A) Upon the request of a private edu-
cational lender, acting in connection with an
application initiated by a borrower for a pri-
vate education loan in accordance with sec-
tion 128(e)(3) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)(3)), the institution shall within
15 days of receipt of a certification request—
‘‘(i) provide such certification to such pri-
vate educational lender—
‘‘(I) that the student who initiated the ap-
plication for the private education loan, or
on whose behalf the application was initi-
ated, is enrolled or is scheduled to enroll at
the institution;
‘‘(II) of such student’s cost of attendance
at the institution as determined under part
F of this title; and
‘‘(III) of the difference between—
‘‘(aa) the cost of attendance at the institu-
tion; and
‘‘(bb) the student’s estimated financial as-
sistance received under this title (except for
Federal Direct PLUS Loans made on behalf
of the student) and other assistance known
to the institution, as applicable (except for
loans made under the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.));
‘‘(ii) notify the creditor that the institu-
tion has received the request for certifi-
cation and will need additional time to com-
ply with the certification request; or
‘‘(iii) provide notice to the private edu-
cational lender of the institution’s refusal to
certify the private education loan under sub-
paragraph (D).
‘‘(B) With respect to a certification request
described in subparagraph (A), and prior to
providing such certification under subpara-
graph (A)(i) or providing notice of the refusal
to provide certification under subparagraph
(A)(iii), the institution shall—
‘‘(i) determine whether the student who
initiated the application for the private edu-
cation loan, or on whose behalf the applica-
tion was initiated, has applied for and ex-
hausted the Federal financial assistance
available to such student under this title and
inform the student accordingly; and
‘‘(ii) provide the borrower whose loan ap-
plication has prompted the certification re-
quest by a private educational lender, as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), with the fol-
lowing information and disclosures:
‘‘(I) The availability of, and the borrower’s
potential eligibility for, Federal financial as-
sistance under this title, including disclosing
the terms, conditions, interest rates, and re-
payment options and programs of Federal
student loans.
‘‘(II) The borrower’s ability to select a pri-
vate educational lender of the borrower’s
choice.
‘‘(III) The impact of a proposed private
education loan on the borrower’s potential
eligibility for other financial assistance, in-
cluding Federal financial assistance under
this title.
‘‘(IV) The borrower’s right to accept or re-
ject a private education loan within the 30-
day period following a private educational
lender’s approval of a borrower’s application
and about a borrower’s 3-day right to cancel
period.
‘‘(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the
terms ‘private educational lender’ and ‘pri-
vate education loan’ have the meanings
given such terms in section 140 of the Truth
in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650).
‘‘(D)(i) An institution shall not provide a
certification with respect to a private edu-
cation loan under this paragraph unless the
private education loan includes terms that
provide—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2699
May 7, 2019
‘‘(I) the borrower alternative repayment
options, including loan consolidation or refi-
nancing; and
‘‘(II) for the discharge of the borrower and
co-borrower’s, if applicable, liability to
repay the loan pursuant to paragraphs (19)
and (20) of section 128(e) of the Truth in
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)).
‘‘(ii) In this paragraph, the term ‘dis-
ability’ means a permanent and total dis-
ability, as determined in accordance with
the regulations of the Secretary of Edu-
cation, or a determination by the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs that the borrower is un-
employable due to a service connected-dis-
ability.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on
the effective date of the regulations de-
scribed in subsection (a)(3).
(3) PREFERRED LENDER ARRANGEMENT.—
Section 151(8)(A)(ii) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1019(8)(A)(ii)) is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘certifying,’’ after ‘‘pro-
moting,’’.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 24 months
after the issuance of regulations under sub-
section (a)(3), the Director of the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection and the Sec-
retary of Education shall jointly submit to
Congress a report on the compliance of—
(A) private educational lenders with sec-
tion 128(e)(3) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)), as amended by subsection (a);
and
(B) institutions of higher education with
section 487(a)(28) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)), as amended by
subsection (b).
(2) CONTENTS.—The report under paragraph
(1) shall include information about the de-
gree to which specific institutions utilize
certifications in effectively—
(A) encouraging the exhaustion of Federal
student loan eligibility by borrowers prior to
taking on private education loan debt; and
(B) lowering student private education
loan debt by borrowers.
SEC. 7. CENTRALIZED POINT OF ACCESS.
Part G of title IV of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088 et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 493E. CENTRALIZED POINT OF ACCESS.
‘‘Not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of the Student Loan Borrower
Bill of Rights, the Secretary shall establish
a centralized point of access for all bor-
rowers of loans that are made, insured, or
guaranteed under this title that are in re-
payment, including a central location for ac-
count information and payment processing
for such loan servicing, regardless of the spe-
cific entity engaged in servicing.’’.
SEC. 8. EDUCATION LOAN OMBUDSMAN.
Section 1035 of the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5535) is
amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘PRI-
VATE’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a Private’’ and inserting
‘‘an’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘private’’;
(3) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘private
education student loan’’ and inserting ‘‘post-
secondary education loan’’;
(4) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘subsection’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘private’’;
(C) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) coordinate with the unit of the Bureau
established under section 1013(b)(3), in order
to monitor complaints by borrowers and re-
sponses to those complaints by the Bureau
or other appropriate Federal or State agen-
cy;’’; and
(D) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘private’’;
(5) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘on the same day annu-
ally’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and be made available to
the public’’ after ‘‘Representatives’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) CONTENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall include information on
the number, nature, and resolution of com-
plaints received, disaggregated by postsec-
ondary educational lender or servicer, re-
gion, State, and institution of higher edu-
cation.’’; and
(6) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) BORROWER.—The term ‘borrower’
means a borrower of a postsecondary edu-
cation loan.
‘‘(2) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
The term ‘institution of higher education’
has the meaning given the term in section
140 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.
1650).
‘‘(3) POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION LOAN.—The
term ‘postsecondary education loan’ means—
‘‘(A) a private education loan, as defined in
section 140 of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1650); or
‘‘(B) a loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under part B, D, or E of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.,
1087a et seq., and 1087aa et seq.).’’.
SEC. 9. REPORT ON PRIVATE EDUCATION LOANS
AND PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL LEND-
ERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Bureau of Consumer Finan-
cial Protection and the Secretary of Edu-
cation, in consultation with the Commis-
sioners of the Federal Trade Commission and
the Attorney General of the United States,
shall submit a report to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate, the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate,
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives, and the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor of the House
of Representatives on private education
loans (as that term is defined in section 140
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650))
and private educational lenders (as that
term is defined in such section).
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by this
section shall examine, at a minimum—
(1) the growth and changes of the private
education loan market in the United States;
(2) factors influencing such growth and
changes;
(3) the extent to which students and par-
ents of students rely on private education
loans to finance postsecondary education
and the private education loan indebtedness
of borrowers;
(4) the characteristics of private education
loan borrowers, including—
(A) the types of institutions of higher edu-
cation that they attend;
(B) socioeconomic characteristics (includ-
ing income and education levels, racial char-
acteristics, geographical background, age,
and gender);
(C) what other forms of financing bor-
rowers use to pay for education;
(D) whether they exhaust their Federal
loan options before taking out a private edu-
cation loan;
(E) whether such borrowers are dependent
or independent students (as determined
under part F of title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087kk et seq.))
or parents of such students;
(F) whether such borrowers are students
enrolled in a program leading to a certifi-
cate, license, or credential other than a de-
gree, an associates degree, a baccalaureate
degree, or a graduate or professional degree;
and
(G) if practicable, employment and repay-
ment behaviors;
(5) the characteristics of private edu-
cational lenders, including whether such
creditors are for-profit, non-profit, or insti-
tutions of higher education;
(6) the underwriting criteria used by pri-
vate educational lenders, including the use
of cohort default rate (as such term is de-
fined in section 435(m) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1085(m));
(7) the terms, conditions, and pricing of
private education loans;
(8) the consumer protections available to
private education loan borrowers, including
the effectiveness of existing disclosures and
requirements and borrowers’ awareness and
understanding about terms and conditions of
various financial products;
(9) whether Federal regulators and the pub-
lic have access to information sufficient to
provide them with assurances that private
education loans are provided in accord with
the Nation’s fair lending laws and that al-
lows public officials to determine lender
compliance with fair lending laws; and
(10) any statutory or legislative rec-
ommendations necessary to improve con-
sumer protections for private education loan
borrowers and to better enable Federal regu-
lators and the public to ascertain private
educational lender compliance with fair
lending laws.
SEC. 10. REPORT ON POSTSECONDARY EDU-
CATION LOAN SERVICING.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Director of the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection and
the Secretary of Education shall submit a
joint report to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate,
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate, the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor of the House of Representa-
tives on servicing of postsecondary edu-
cation loans, including—
(1) any legislative recommendations to im-
prove servicing standards; and
(2) information on proactive early inter-
vention methods by postsecondary edu-
cational lenders or servicers to help dis-
tressed postsecondary education loan bor-
rowers enroll in any eligible repayment
plans.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 192—TO AU-
THORIZE TESTIMONY AND REP-
RESENTATION IN STATE OF NE-
VADA V. LACAMERA
Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. SCHUMER) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 192
Whereas, in the case of State of Nevada v.
Lacamera, Case No. 19FN0945X, pending in
the North Las Vegas Justice Court in Ne-
vada, the prosecution has requested the pro-
duction of testimony from Ariana Morales,
an employee of the office of Senator Cath-
erine Cortez Masto;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.005 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2700 May 7, 2019
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and
704(a)(2) of the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, 2 U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and 288c(a)(2), the
Senate may direct its counsel to represent
current and former Members and employees
of the Senate with respect to any subpoena,
order, or request for testimony relating to
their official responsibilities;
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of
the United States and Rule XI of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate, no evidence under
the control or in the possession of the Senate
may, by the judicial or administrative proc-
ess, be taken from such control or possession
but by permission of the Senate; and
Whereas, when it appears that evidence
under the control or in the possession of the
Senate may promote the administration of
justice, the Senate will take such action as
will promote the ends of justice consistent
with the privileges of the Senate: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That Ariana Morales, an em-
ployee of the Office of Senator Catherine
Cortez Masto, and any other current or
former employee of the Senator’s office from
whom relevant evidence may be necessary,
are authorized to testify in the case of State
of Nevada v. Lacamera, except concerning
matters for which a privilege should be as-
serted.
SEC. 2. The Senate Legal Counsel is author-
ized to represent Senator Cortez Masto and
any current or former employees of the Sen-
ator’s office in connection with the produc-
tion of evidence authorized in section one of
this resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
behalf of myself and the distinguished
Democratic leader, Mr. SCHUMER, I
send to the desk a resolution author-
izing the production of testimony and
representation by the Senate Legal
Counsel, and ask for its immediate
consideration.
Mr. President, this resolution con-
cerns a request for evidence in a crimi-
nal action pending in Nevada State
court. In this action the defendant is
charged with threatening or attempt-
ing to intimidate public officials in
voicemails he left with the Las Vegas
office of Senator CORTEZ MASTO. A pre-
liminary hearing is scheduled for May
8, 2019.
The prosecution is seeking testimony
from one of the Senator’s staff assist-
ants who listened to the voicemails at
issue. Senator CORTEZ MASTO would
like to cooperate with this request by
providing relevant employee testimony
from her office.
The enclosed resolution would au-
thorize that staffer, and any other cur-
rent or former employee of the Sen-
ator’s office from whom relevant testi-
mony may be needed, to testify in this
criminal action, with representation by
the Senate Legal Counsel.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 193—DESIG-
NATING MAY 18, 2019, AS ‘‘KIDS
TO PARKS DAY’’
Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. PORTMAN, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. HEINRICH) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 193
Whereas the 9th annual Kids to Parks Day
will be celebrated on May 18, 2019;
Whereas the goals of Kids to Parks Day
are—
(1) to promote healthy outdoor recreation
and environmental stewardship;
(2) to empower young people; and
(3) to encourage families to get outdoors
and visit the parks and public land of the
United States;
Whereas, on Kids to Parks Day, individuals
from rural and urban areas of the United
States can be reintroduced to the splendid
national, State, and neighborhood parks lo-
cated in their communities;
Whereas communities across the United
States offer a variety of natural resources
and public land, often with free access, to in-
dividuals seeking outdoor recreation;
Whereas the people of the United States,
young and old, should be encouraged to lead
more healthy and active lifestyles;
Whereas Kids to Parks Day is an oppor-
tunity for families to take a break from
their busy lives and come together for a day
of active, wholesome fun; and
Whereas Kids to Parks Day will—
(1) broaden an appreciation for nature and
the outdoors in young people;
(2) foster a safe setting for independent
play and healthy adventure in neighborhood
parks; and
(3) facilitate self-reliance while strength-
ening communities: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates May 18, 2019, as ‘‘Kids to
Parks Day’’;
(2) recognizes the importance of outdoor
recreation and the preservation of open
spaces to the health and education of the
young people of the United States; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Kids to Parks Day with ap-
propriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I have 5
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, May 7, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Privacy
rights and data collection in a digital
economy.’’
COMMITTEE HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND
PENSIONS
The Committee Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, May 7, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Making
electronic health information available
to patients and providers.’’
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Tuesday, May 7, 2019, at
2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on the
following nominations: Dale Cabaniss,
of Virginia, to be Director of the Office
of Personnel Management, and Michael
Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Admin-
istrator for Federal Procurement Pol-
icy.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, May 7, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a business meet-
ing and hearing entitled ‘‘Intellectual
property and the price of prescription
drugs.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY AFFAIRS AND
FEDERAL MANAGEMENT
The Subcommittee on Regulatory Af-
fairs and Federal Management of the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, May 7, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
f
APPOINTMENTS
THE PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to Public Law 94–304, as
amended by Public Law 99–7, appoints
the following Senators as members of
the Commission on Security and Co-
operation in Europe (Helsinki) during
the 116th Congress: the Honorable BEN-
JAMIN L. CARDIN of Maryland; the Hon-
orable SHELDON WHITEHOUSE of Rhode
Island; the Honorable TOM UDALL of
New Mexico; the Honorable JEANNE
SHAHEEN of New Hampshire.
The Chair, on behalf of the President
of the Senate, pursuant to Public Law
106–286, appoints the following Mem-
bers to serve on the Congressional-Ex-
ecutive Commission on the People’s
Republic of China: the Honorable
DIANNE FEINSTEIN of California; the
Honorable JEFF MERKLEY of Oregon;
the Honorable GARY C. PETERS of
Michigan; the Honorable ANGUS S.
KING Jr. of Maine.
f
AUTHORIZING TESTIMONY AND
REPRESENTATION IN STATE OF
NEVADA V. LACAMERA
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 192, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 192) to authorize tes-
timony and representation in the State of
Nevada v. Lacamera.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no objection, the Senate pro-
ceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY6.038 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2701
May 7, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 192) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
KIDS TO PARKS DAY
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 193, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 193) designating May
18, 2019, as ‘‘Kids to Parks Day’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no objection, the Senate pro-
ceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. KENNEDY. I further ask that the
resolution be agreed to, the preamble
be agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 193) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
COMMENDING THE GOVERNMENT
OF CANADA
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 61, S. Res. 96.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 96) commending the
Government of Canada for upholding the rule
of law and expressing concern over actions
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Govern-
ment of Canada for the extradition of a
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. executive.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. KENNEDY. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 96) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 6, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, MAY 8,
2019
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday,
May 8; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two Leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day, morning
business be closed, and the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the Bianco nomina-
tion under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of Senators MENENDEZ and WHITE-
HOUSE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for up
to 20 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
come to the floor to once again discuss
U.S. policy toward the Russian Federa-
tion. I fear this body is in the grips of
a paralysis that has rendered us flat-
footed in the face of a multitude of
threats from Russia. This is not a pa-
ralysis due to a lack of knowledge, lack
of facts, or lack of intelligence. It is a
paralysis of our politics, a paralysis
born out of a lack of political will to do
what is necessary in the absence of
Presidential leadership, a lack of will
to stand up for our national security, a
lack of will to defend our Democratic
institutions, a lack of will to fulfill the
oath that every single Member of this
Chamber swore to uphold.
The inaction from this body since the
beginning of the year on Russia has
been astounding. It gives me no pleas-
ure to think that political consider-
ations could be compromising the Re-
publican majority’s willingness to re-
spond robustly to the Russia threat,
but how else can I explain why the
party of Reagan has gone missing?
What force, other than politics, can ex-
plain our failure to demand the admin-
istration robustly respond to Russia’s
seizure of Ukrainian ships in the Kerch
Strait in the high seas in international
waters? What force other than politics
can explain our feeble response to Rus-
sia’s chemical attack in the United
Kingdom? What force other than poli-
tics can explain our failure to thwart
Russia’s hand in Syria and allow Putin
to sit back and enjoy the political in-
stability spawned in Europe by the re-
sulting migration crisis? What force
other than politics can have us playing
right into Putin’s hands? What force
other than politics can explain the re-
marks made earlier today by Majority
Leader MCCONNELL in which he sug-
gested that Democratic efforts to as-
sess the full and unredacted Mueller re-
port are impeding the ability of this
body to shore up our election security?
Well, that is really rich. I might re-
mind the American people that it was
the majority leader who, when pre-
sented by top intelligence officials in
the Obama administration with Rus-
sian efforts to help President Trump’s
candidacy, blocked efforts to inform
the public?
Look, I am not here today to talk
about conspiracy or obstruction or
President Trump. Make no mistake,
those issues are deeply concerning, and
contrary to the majority leader’s
words, the case is not closed. The case
is not closed. However, there will be
other opportunities to address these
issues, and when it comes to shoring up
our defenses, we are running out of
time.
So as the ranking member on the
Foreign Relation Committee, I am here
to flash a red warning light about what
the Mueller report means for our na-
tional security, what it means for
America’s geopolitical standing with
respect to Russia, what it means for
our credibility on the world stage as
Democratic institutions are attacked.
I am worried that in the face of Rus-
sian aggression, we are getting lost,
not in the fog of war but in the fog of
politics, and our inaction today will
have consequences that outlast any
Presidency, haunting us for years or
even decades to come.
Let’s review what we know about the
Russian threat and how long we have
known about it. It was over 2 years
ago, in January of 2017, when the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence determined
that Russia interfered in the 2016 elec-
tion. Our intelligence community re-
leased that assessment that concluded
Russia’s efforts to influence the 2016
Presidential election ‘‘demonstrated a
significant escalation in directness,
level of activity, and scope of effort
compared to previous operations.’’
They concluded that this attack was
ordered by President Putin himself and
that ‘‘Putin and the Russian Govern-
ment developed a clear preference for
President-elect Trump.’’
They concluded Russia’s efforts
‘‘[B]lend[ed] covert intelligence oper-
ations—such as cyber activity—with
overt efforts by Russian Government
agencies, state-funded media, third-
party intermediaries, and paid social
media users or ‘trolls’ to undermine
our 2016 elections.’’
In addition, our intelligence commu-
nity warned that ‘‘Moscow will apply
lessons learned from its Putin-ordered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.045 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2702 May 7, 2019
campaign aimed at the U.S. Presi-
dential election to influence future ef-
forts worldwide, including against U.S.
allies and their election processes.’’
That was more than 2 years ago.
Today, thanks to the work of Special
Counsel Robert Mueller, we now have a
more thorough understanding of Rus-
sia’s interference in 2016. While much
remains redacted, the special counsel’s
report describes in painstaking detail
the scope of Russia’s interference and
the sophistication of their tactics.
Here is what we know.
First, Russian officials interfered in
the U.S. Presidential election in sup-
port of Putin’s preferred candidate and
attempted to make inroads with his
campaign.
Second, the Russian Government and
individuals with strong ties to the
Kremlin carried out what Mueller con-
cluded was a ‘‘sweeping and system-
atic’’ campaign to influence and sway
the support of U.S. voters.
Third, the St. Petersburg-based
Internet Research Agency, or known
by its acronym IRA, sought to use so-
cial media and embedded employees to
influence U.S. voters in an effort that
was funded in large part by an oligarch
with known links to Putin. The IRA’s
malign social media influence cam-
paign was nothing short of, in his
words, ‘‘information warfare.’’
The Internet Research Agency em-
ployees created fake social media
personas and posed as American citi-
zens on sites like Facebook and Twit-
ter. These Russian operatives were
keenly aware of the politics of division.
They capitalized on sensitive social
and political issues, from immigration
policy to police brutality, in an effort
to divide Americans against each
other.
They targeted voters in key swing
States in an effort to dissuade certain
demographics from turning out on elec-
tion day. They staged real political ral-
lies by masquerading as activists, and
they destroyed evidence in an attempt
to avoid detection and impede U.S. in-
vestigations.
Fourth, the Mueller report confirms
that Russian military intelligence de-
ployed ‘‘multiple’’ units to engage in
‘‘large-scale cyber operations to inter-
fere with the 2016 U.S. presidential
election.’’
Officers with the GRU, Russia’s intel-
ligence agency, hacked into Demo-
cratic campaign networks and indi-
vidual email accounts in order to steal
emails and other sensitive information.
Armed with those stolen emails, GRU
officers timed the release of damaging
information in order to maximize their
impact. Subsequent releases were con-
spicuously timed in an apparent effort
to help their preferred candidate.
Russian hackers also conducted
cyber surveillance of at least 20 State
election systems, and the Kremlin in-
tended to use this information to cast
doubt on the legitimacy of a Clinton
victory.
This revelation should shake us to
the core because, clearly, President
Putin understands that for our democ-
racy to work, the American people
must have faith in the results of our
elections. Chip away at that faith, and
you chip away at our democracy itself.
Russian intelligence operatives, GRU
operatives, also targeted employees of
a voting technology company and suc-
cessfully installed malware on their
computer networks.
In a handful of States, they gained
the capacity to actually manipulate
and even delete voter registration data.
To top it all off, Russian hackers suc-
cessfully infiltrated the network of at
least one county government in Flor-
ida.
Finally, following the election, Putin
unleashed handpicked oligarchs to
push back against anticipated U.S.
sanctions. Let’s remember who these
Russian oligarchs are. They are billion-
aires handpicked by Putin who solidi-
fied his grip on power not only by op-
pressing the Russian people but also by
systematically seizing their assets and
transferring them to a select group of
cronies and allies through business
dealings, real estate transactions,
shares of companies, shell corpora-
tions, money laundering, and more.
These oligarchs act as an extension
of Putin’s power. They advance Rus-
sia’s economic influence and do Putin’s
bidding around the world. According to
the Mueller report, that is exactly
what they did after the 2016 election.
They reached out to the President’s
inner circle and members of his transi-
tion team to begin laying the ground-
work for what Putin wanted in return
for his help during the campaign—most
prominently, protection from further
sanctions and relaxation of those sanc-
tions imposed for Russia’s illegal inva-
sion of Ukraine.
This short summary of the Mueller
report’s findings should be offensive to
any American elected official. This
short summary should spur anyone to
action to shore up the security of our
elections at home and counter Russian
aggression abroad.
Indeed, just last week, FBI Director
Wray warned that Russia continues to
pose a very significant counterintel-
ligence threat. He also said that 2018
was a dress rehearsal for the big show
in 2020.
This report cries out for action. It
screams for legislation, and it demands
preparation in advance of 2020.
We are in trouble, people. We can
argue with each other, we can score po-
litical points against each other, but
the United States of America remains
in Russia’s crosshairs, and we must
act. Putin has set his sights on us
again in 2020.
The Russian Government continues
to pursue the eroding of democracy as
we speak across Europe. It has
partnered with dictators and war
criminals in the Middle East. In Ven-
ezuela, Putin clearly sees an advantage
in prolonging a destabilizing conflict in
our hemisphere. He and his cronies are
selling arms, striking oil deals, and
robbing the Venezuelan people of fu-
ture prosperity all to prop up Maduro’s
criminal regime.
So while President Trump may claim
that ‘‘Putin is not looking to get in-
volved’’ in Venezuela, we already know
he is.
The Mueller report is the wake-up
call of the century. It is a clarion call
to action. We must treat it as a pre-
view of what is to come.
We already know some of the actions
that are worth taking. Senator GRA-
HAM and I have a bipartisan bill called
the Defending American Security from
Kremlin Aggression Act or DASKA. I
have come to this floor to talk about it
again and again, but in the wake of the
Mueller report, I wonder, where is our
sense of urgency? Where is our out-
rage? Where is our sense of collective
responsibility? If my colleagues take
nothing else from the Mueller report,
they should at least be willing and
eager to respond to what Russia did to
us 2 years ago and what FBI Director
Wray tells us they will continue to do.
The Defending American Security
from Kremlin Aggression Act will en-
sure our diplomats have the tools to
advance our interests and stand up to
the bully in the Kremlin. The bill in-
cludes new sanctions but also provi-
sions designed to harden our demo-
cratic institutions and make us less
vulnerable to attack.
Our bill would improve our ability to
coordinate with Europe on the Russia
challenge. It would invest in Demo-
cratic institutions in countries most
vulnerable to Kremlin aggression be-
cause we must remember that Russia’s
attack in 2016 did not occur in a vacu-
um. It is part of Putin’s larger mission
to disrupt democracies around the
world from his support for dictators
from Syria and Venezuela to Russian
meddling in the political affairs of our
European allies.
DASKA would also increase trans-
parency with respect to real estate
sales in the United States that we
know is a go-to strategy for Russian
oligarchs looking to launder money.
I know many of my colleagues have
no interest in learning more about the
President’s own business dealings with
these unsavory figures and whether
those relationships influence his deci-
sion making about U.S. foreign policy,
but we should agree, at least, that we
must do more to prevent Russia from
getting American businesses and lead-
ers financially entangled in Russia’s
tentacles like the NRA.
DASKA would also protect our NATO
alliance. Senator GRAHAM and I have
included an important provision that
would prevent any President from pull-
ing the United States out of NATO
without Senate approval. To pull our
Nation out of a military alliance so
vital to America’s security when we
could have stopped it from happening
would be a tragedy fit for the ages. A
Senate vote was required to get us into
the North Atlantic treaty, it should be
required in any attempt to get us out.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.046 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2703
May 7, 2019
This is critical to providing a sense of
security and stability to our allies in
NATO.
Finally, DASKA also includes new
sanctions pressure on Moscow, includ-
ing on Russian oligarchs complicit in
the spread of Russia’s malign actions.
In addition, it includes increased sanc-
tions on Russia’s energy and financial
sectors.
The bill has specific sanctions on the
Russian shipbuilding sector to the ex-
tent that Russia continues to interfere
with the freedom of navigation in the
Kerch Strait or anywhere else and was
complicit in the November attack.
In the final analysis, we have a few
peaceful tools of diplomacy to address
malign actors around the world: the
court of international public opinion,
insofar as a government or a leader in
question cares about such things; our
trade and aid as an inducement to be-
havior change; then there is the denial
of trade or aid or access to our finan-
cial institutions, which we call sanc-
tions.
President Putin is willing to use his
military as a means of first resort to
advance his interests. We are not.
Therefore, sanctions are our tool of
peaceful diplomacy. They are how we
send the message and how we seek to
defend ourselves.
Now I must state that growing up in
New Jersey, I learned that if you didn’t
confront the bully in the schoolyard,
his reign of terror would never end. He
would create a climate of fear. He
would create a climate of intimidation
until you whacked him in the head
with a 2 by 4, until you said enough is
enough, until you made clear that you
and your fellow students wouldn’t ac-
cept that kind of behavior. If you
didn’t stand up for yourself, the bully
would press ahead.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is what
we have in Vladimir Putin. He will con-
tinue to push and push until he meets
resistance, until he meets a 2 by 4.
That is what we have in DASKA.
We have a responsibility in this body,
a responsibility shared by all 100 Sen-
ators, to protect our national security
and the integrity of our democracy. It
is our most solemn responsibility.
Some may not care. Some may think
we have done enough to deal with the
Russian threat, but our intelligence ex-
perts disagree, Bob Mueller disagrees,
FBI Director Wray disagrees, and
clearly those living under the threat of
Kremlin aggression in Eastern Europe
disagree.
This body has come together before. I
have seen it. We came together in 2017
to pass the Countering America’s Ad-
versaries Through Sanctions Act, or
CAATSA, but since then we have strug-
gled to get this administration to fully
implement the law. Are we supposed to
just throw up our hands and say, ‘‘Oh,
well,’’ and hope they will see the light
or are we supposed to demand nothing
less than rigorous enforcement and
take legislative action if needed?
I stand firmly for the latter, and I
hope a majority of my colleagues will
stand with me. It is long past time we
send another message to the world and,
most importantly, to the Kremlin that
the Senate is prepared to defend Amer-
ican interests. We will not tolerate in-
trusions by a hostile foreign power. We
will not leave our democratic institu-
tions vulnerable to further inter-
ference. We will not allow any foreign
adversary to meddle in our democracy.
The breadth of Russian interference
laid out by the Mueller report demands
the kind of comprehensive foreign pol-
icy response put forward in DASKA.
The American people deserve a markup
and a full vote in the Senate to make
that happen.
I will just say, as the elected leaders
of this country, we owe Americans ac-
tion. We owe them fulfillment of our
oath. We owe them a robust and un-
flinching defense of our democracy and
our values. Enough with the delays.
Enough with the excuses. Enough with
the politics.
We have legislation ready to bolster
our defenses. We have strong bipartisan
support for it. Let’s mark up the bill
now. Let’s send a clear and unequivocal
message to Putin that we will not tol-
erate a repeat performance in 2020.
I would just say that this is not
about President Trump. It is not about
the last election other than that they
attempted to influence it and that we
should recognize and want to deal with
it. But it is about preserving our na-
tional security, our democracy, and
our interest in the world.
Putin is unbridled. This institution,
Republicans and Democrats, have al-
ways joined together to meet Russia’s
challenge when Russia posed a chal-
lenge. The party of Reagan is absent.
The party of Reagan is absent on this.
If this had been going on during the
Obama administration, I would have
been peeling people off of the Capitol
ceiling.
Let’s get to work. Let’s defend our
interests. Let’s stand up together.
Let’s send Putin a message. Let’s de-
fend our democracy.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Before I begin,
let me say how nice it was to be with
the Presiding Officer in her home State
at the McCain Institute this weekend.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, pick up the paper these days, and
it is hard to miss the headlines about
corporate America getting serious
about reducing carbon emissions. Com-
panies are purchasing renewable power.
They are moving into carbon-neutral
office buildings. They are purchasing
electric vehicle fleets. They are devel-
oping new technologies and products
for the transition to a carbon economy.
Many are forcing some degree of sus-
tainability out of their supply chains.
All of this is important work and the
companies that are leading in these
areas deserve real applause.
But—you knew there was going to be
a ‘‘but,’’ and here it is—corporations
alone reducing their own carbon emis-
sions or designing new low-carbon
technologies will not win the fight
against climate change. If you want to
fail on climate change while looking
good, that will work, but if you actu-
ally want to win—if you want to keep
us between 1.5 and 2 degrees in tem-
perature increase—you will fail.
A new report, ‘‘The Blind Spot,’’
from the Environmental Defense Fund,
makes crystal clear that individual
corporate efforts to reduce their own
carbon emissions will not be enough.
Here is what it says: ‘‘While voluntary
actions by companies to reduce green-
house gas emissions are important,
only public policy can deliver the pace
and scale of reductions necessary to
avoid the worst impacts of climate
change.’’
‘‘Public policy’’—that is us. That is
Congress.
EDF is not alone. Report after report
has shown that we will fail without
government action. But as engaged as
so much of corporate America is in
greening its own operations, they are
almost totally absent from the halls of
Congress when it comes to climate
change—AWOL, no place.
So government sits, stalled by the
fossil fuel industry, and does nothing
serious. As a Senator, I am an inhab-
itant of this political ecosystem. I ob-
serve how this works. Consider this the
field report of the biologist who lives
in the jungle.
The sad reality of our political eco-
system is that post-Citizens United,
the power of big industries seeking in-
fluence in Congress has exploded.
Where previously, big special interests
had muskets, Citizens United gave
them artillery. On climate change, one
industry, the fossil fuel industry, is de-
ploying its artillery of big money and
big threats here in Washington like no-
body else.
It is no surprise. They are defending
a $700 billion per year fossil fuel sub-
sidy just in the United States, accord-
ing to the International Monetary
Fund. They have a huge interest—a
multihundred billion dollar interest—
in preventing legislation that would re-
duce consumption of their fossil fuels.
So they spend hundreds of millions of
dollars on lobbying and elections. They
fund dozens of phony front groups and
trade associations to engage in all
sorts of climate denial and obstruction.
They hide their influence in dark-
money channels. They pollute the pub-
lic sphere as badly as they pollute the
atmosphere.
In our political ecosystem, they are a
big and dangerous predator. Ask
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.048 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2704 May 7, 2019
former Congressman Bob Inglis. Ask
former Senate candidate Katie
McGinty. The fossil fuel industry is a
multitentacled, well-camouflaged, and
deadly political beast.
And, then, there is the rest of the
business community: retail, food and
beverage, financial services, tech, con-
sumer goods, and manufacturing. Most
are taking steps to reduce their own
emissions, but when it comes to doing
something about climate change here
in Congress, they just don’t show up,
and the result is entirely predictable.
In an institution like Congress,
whose currencies are money and influ-
ence, if one industry spends on lobbies
like a beast and there is no counter-
weight, that industry likely carries the
day. That is simple political hydrau-
lics. It is true in sports, and it is true
in battles: If one side doesn’t show up,
the other side owns the field. And so
the fossil fuel industry owns the Re-
publican Party.
That is why it is imperative that the
rest of corporate America start show-
ing up on climate. Many of them are
here. They do lobby. They just care
about other things, and their silence
about climate change is deafening. The
good guys are just not on the field.
They are scared of retaliation. They
have other priorities. They don’t want
to be yelled at by the Chamber of Com-
merce. They are getting what they
want and don’t want to upset the ap-
plecart. There are lots of reasons, but
it doesn’t change the outcome. It is not
just the EDF report.
I got today the New America report
‘‘Prospects for Climate Change Policy
Reform.’’ They point out that in the
past, business and government usually
worked together to solve environ-
mental problems. I quote them here:
‘‘A cross-partisan model of environ-
mental-business engagement held sway
for decades on other issues; however,
companies have been less willing to
provide leadership on climate policy.’’
No kidding. But the fossil fuel indus-
try is here, and it exerts a relentless
barrage of lobbying, electioneering,
and propaganda pressure on Congress.
And it owns the field. This statement
from the EDF report is really its cen-
tral message: ‘‘The most powerful tool
companies have to fight climate
change is their political influence.’’
So when they don’t show up, it
makes a difference. This is the message
that corporate America needs to take
to heart. Republicans are not going to
break this artificial, fossil-fuel-funded,
climate logjam here in Congress until
corporate America—the corporate
America they listen to—starts to de-
mand climate action, not on a website,
not in their purchasing standards but
here in Congress.
In this political ecosystem, the in-
habitants know when something is
real, and they know when it is cor-
porate greenwashing, or well-inten-
tioned peripheral stuff they can ignore.
Members know who is serious.
The fossil fuel industry is deadly se-
rious. The EDF report says that any
evaluation of corporate climate policy
must include an analysis of its lob-
bying and political spending as it re-
lates to climate. EDF is right. Cor-
porate America needs to be account-
able for the results that it pays for, and
that includes whether or not compa-
nies fund anti-climate trade associa-
tions.
This is another dirty Washington se-
cret. Many companies subcontract lob-
bying and electioneering activity to
trade associations. Two of the biggest
trade associations—the National Asso-
ciation of Manufacturers and the very
biggest, the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce, the proverbial 800-pound go-
rilla—have spent decades denying that
climate change was even occurring and
obstructing any effort to reduce carbon
pollution—decades of denial and ob-
struction.
Too many companies with good cli-
mate policies support them with the
result that those companies’ functional
climate presence in Washington is op-
posite to what they say their policy is
and opposite to what they say on their
website.
The group InfluenceMap looks at cor-
porate lobbying and ranks corporations
and trade associations by their influ-
ence on climate policy. Of the 50 most
influential trade associations around
the world, InfluenceMap shows the
Chamber and the National Association
of Manufacturers to be the two worst—
the two most opposed when it comes to
reducing carbon pollution. Here they
are, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and the National Association of Manu-
facturers, right at the bottom—the
very worst.
Look at those companies that are
greening their own operations but are
supporting the Chamber and the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers.
Look at the companies that don’t show
up in Congress to lobby for climate ac-
tion and, instead, lobby through these
two who lobby against the climate ac-
tion those companies claim to support.
Those companies’ net lobbying pres-
ence in Congress is against climate ac-
tion, whatever they may claim to sup-
port. Their net lobbying presence in
Congress is against climate action—di-
rectly opposed to the policies they
claim to support.
There is an accountability moment
that needs to come for those compa-
nies, unless they honestly believe that
climate change is a hoax, that it is not
real, we don’t need to worry about it,
and obstruction is OK. If that is their
position, they are getting proper rep-
resentation from the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, but if they are
telling the world—and their share-
holders and their customers—that they
take climate change seriously, they
have a little explaining to do about
supporting these two enemies of cli-
mate progress, particularly, if they are
not showing up in Congress to counter
the denial and obstruction they are
paying for.
For years, companies that go out and
brag to consumers and investors about
how green they are simultaneously
fund climate denial and obstruction via
those two trade associations. That has
to stop. In fact, more and more con-
sumers and investors are beginning to
call on companies to stop this cor-
porate doublespeak. You can’t have a
good climate website and fund these
two organizations and face your share-
holders and say you are serious.
Consumers who buy a Coke or a Pepsi
don’t want to be supporting the Cham-
ber’s decades-long campaign against
climate action. Investors in Coca-Cola
and Pepsico don’t want these compa-
nies to put their reputations at risk by
funding anti-climate groups. Investors
don’t want these companies to ignore
climate change when climate change
may upend their water-dependent busi-
nesses.
Coca-Cola features a powerful state-
ment about its commitment to climate
action on its website. ‘‘Climate change
is a profound challenge,’’ it says, ‘‘and
we are partnering with other busi-
nesses, civil society organizations, and
governments to support cooperative ac-
tion on this critical issue. . . . We also
recognize climate change may have
long-term direct and indirect implica-
tions for our business and supply
chain.’’
In 2018, Coca-Cola disclosed that it
gave the chamber at least $85,000—
probably a good deal more.
PepsiCo is even more explicit about
the need for climate action. I quote
them:
Implementing solutions to address climate
change is important to the future of our
company, customers, consumers and our
shared world. . . . We believe industry and
governments should commit to science-based
action to keep global temperature increases
to 2 Celsius above pre-industrial levels.’’
In 2018, PepsiCo disclosed that it gave
the chamber at least half a million dol-
lars.
Coke and Pepsi’s own trade associa-
tion, the American Beverage Associa-
tion, also gives money to the chamber.
So here are these two consumer-fac-
ing, climate-supporting companies, and
both of them contribute directly to the
Chamber of Commerce, and they run
money through their own trade asso-
ciation, the American Beverage Asso-
ciation, into the Chamber of Com-
merce. And there it lies as the worst of
the pair of lobbying organizations
blocking climate action.
What is the net effect of all of that?
The net effect is that, for all their good
work reducing their own carbon emis-
sions and reducing their supply chain’s
carbon emissions, here in Congress,
Coke and Pepsi are net opposed to cli-
mate action.
Thankfully, some companies are be-
ginning to realize that they can’t just
sit on the sidelines here in Washington
and let the fossil fuel industry own
Congress. Little Patagonia, the out-
door clothing manufacturer, has led
the way. Bravo, Patagonia. Danone,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.050 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2705
May 7, 2019
Mars, Nestle, and Unilever have an-
nounced a sustainable food policy alli-
ance to pursue a price on carbon in
Congress. Separately, Microsoft re-
cently announced that it was going to
lobby Congress for a price on carbon.
But the fact that those companies are
the exceptions I can name shows how
bad the presence of corporate America
is on this issue here in Congress.
I will give Microsoft some extra cred-
it. Microsoft also stood up in Wash-
ington State to support a ballot initia-
tive to put a price on carbon emissions.
Starbucks, Amazon, Costco, and Boe-
ing—big, supposedly green corporations
in Washington State—stood by and let
themselves get rolled by Big Oil, led by
BP—‘‘Beyond Petroleum,’’ ha—when
Big Oil spent $30 million to defeat the
measure.
By the way, it is the oil CEOs who
have been saying: Oh, we know our
product causes climate change. We are
serious about doing something about
it, and what we are going to do to be
serious about it is to support a price on
carbon.
That is what they say. What do they
do? Look at BP. Look at the oil spend-
ing in Washington. They go right in
and spend their money to fight the
very policy they say they support.
I know of no path to success on cli-
mate that does not include pricing car-
bon. It is also the right thing to do be-
cause failing to price carbon is bad eco-
nomics. It is a market failure. So if
you are a true free market person, you
ought to get behind a price on carbon.
If you are just a fossil fuel person, then
OK, but admit it. There really is no
path to success on climate change that
does not include pricing carbon. That
may be an unpleasant fact for some,
but it is a fact.
Staying between 1.5 and 2 degrees
Centigrade world temperature increase
is another fact. We can’t miss that tar-
get, but we will. We will miss that tar-
get if this corporate doublespeak
doesn’t change.
Work like this new report from EDF,
and InfluenceMap’s analysis of how
these trade associations like the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers
obstruct climate action, may help con-
vince corporate America that it is time
to step up, get on the field, and demand
that Congress take real action to limit
carbon pollution.
Corporate America needs to go to its
trade associations and say: Knock it
off. No more U.S. chamber of carbon.
No more national association of manu-
factured facts.
Corporate America is paying for this
nonsense, and corporate America can
stop it. The two-faced game of having a
good climate website but having your
presence in Congress be against cli-
mate action has got to stop.
Corporate America—the political
force Republicans listen to—has the re-
sponsibility and the power to break the
fossil fuel-funded logjam in this body.
They could do it tomorrow if they
wanted to. You take the leaders of cor-
porate America in the sectors that I
listed and you march them right down
to the leader’s office, and they say to
him ‘‘We are done with you, we are
done with your candidates, and we are
done with your party until you knock
off the obstruction,’’ and we would be
out on the floor debating climate
change within a week.
When corporate America takes up its
responsibility and uses its power to
break the fossil fuel-funded logjam in
this body, change on this issue will
come swiftly, and we will see bipar-
tisan support for climate action
emerge.
I was here in 2007, in 2008, and in 2009.
In all of those years, there was con-
stant bipartisan activity on climate.
The pages would have been awfully
young back then. It is nearly 10 years
ago now. They would not recognize
what is going on. I think there were
five different bipartisan climate bills
in the Senate—serious ones—that
would have really done something sig-
nificant to head off the climate crisis.
All of that stopped dead in January of
2010. It was like a heart attack and a
flat line on the EKG—stopped dead be-
cause the Supreme Court decided Citi-
zens United. That opened the flood-
gates of political money into our poli-
tics. The fossil fuel money jumped on
to that immediately. I think they saw
and predicted that decision. I know
they asked for it, and they were ready
at the starting gun. From that moment
when the fossil fuel industry dropped in
on the Republican Party and said, ‘‘No-
body is going to cross us on this any
longer. You are all going to have to
line up on climate denial. We will take
out Republicans who cross us. We will
do it to Bob Inglis, and we will do it to
others. You are done with bipartisan-
ship on this issue,’’ that is when it
stopped.
If the fossil fuel industry would
knock it off or if these front groups
like the chamber and the National As-
sociation of Manufacturers would
knock it off or if the rest of corporate
America would simply get in here and
push back, show up, outpressure them,
we could go back and we could be bi-
partisan in a week. We are not there
yet. Most of corporate America is still
avoiding this issue in Congress, but
they could really make a big dif-
ference. That makes it very much still
time to wake up.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:41 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, May 8,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07MY6.052 S07MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E545
May 7, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE LEGACY OF RE-
VERED BISHOP MELVIN E.
CLARK, SR.
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, Bishop Clark
born in Norfolk, VA, came to Aliquippa in 1959
from Stanton, Va., where he was pastor of a
Church of God in Christ. He took over the
then-First Church of God in Christ in Ali-
quippa, PA and led the effort to build the land-
mark Church in the Round, which was finished
in 1970. Before the term Mega church was
coined, The Church in the Round boasted at-
tendance and membership exceeding 3,500.
Over the ensuing decades, Clark created
groundbreaking community outreach initia-
tives, Evangelistic Conferences, Pastoral
Leadership Symposiums, Holy Ghost Con-
ferences, Church Planning and Church Plant-
ing across the nation. His visionary inter-
disciplinary—community development initia-
tives include: Multi-unit housing, Prison Re-
form / Ministries, Financial Literacy Classes,
Bethesda Home, a group home for troubled
boys, the Family Life Center, scholarship
funds, food initiatives, recreation programs,
and medical- and health-awareness endeavors
and more.
The Very Reverend Bishop Clark spread the
gospel to millions via his widespread multi
state radio ministry, ‘‘Across the Pastor’s
Desk,’’ which lasted three decades and drew
people to his church, and to Christ. The mes-
sage: ‘‘May I Present Jesus to YOU!!’’
Bishop Melvin E. Clark, Sr., the founding vi-
sionary of the Family Life Center, was ap-
pointed to the Pastorate of the First Church of
God in Christ, Inc. and subsequently its suc-
cessor, the legendary Church in the Round in
1960. He oversees a church legacy that spans
97-years, making the enterprise one of the
oldest institutions in the Beaver County region.
Bishop Clark’s achievements as a pastor, and
community leader resulted in his consecration
to the Bishopric and Jurisdictional Prelate of
the Second Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction of the
national Churches of God in Christ. His lead-
ership abilities and deep concern for people
has brought him before many national and
international leaders including four U.S. Presi-
dents. On several occasions he served as an
advisor to President Bill Clinton.
While serving as a delegate to the World
Pentecostal Conference, Bishop Clark visited
Jerusalem and Switzerland, and at the request
of the President of Sierra Leone, West Africa,
was called to preach during a special celebra-
tion at the President’s church. The Presiding
Bishop of the Church of God In Christ World-
wide also called upon Bishop Clark to minister
to congregants in South Korea.
He has ministered in Greece, the City of
Corinth, London, England, the Vatican, and
Rome, Italy. He serves as an advisor, coun-
selor, and member of the Joint College of Afri-
can-American Bishops and its Pentecostal
Congress where he was awarded a Doctorate
of Divinity degree. Bishop Clark also holds two
Master’s Degrees and an earned Doctorate of
Philosophy.
He has received many awards including the
Humanitarian Award of the NAACP, of which
he is a lifetime member, the Church of God in
Christ Presiding Bishop’s Award, and the Man
of the Year of the Greater Aliquippa Chamber
of Commerce for honorable and unselfish
service. Bishop Clark is honored to serve on
the national Saints Center Board and the Na-
tional Task Force of the Church of God In
Christ.
f
COMPLETE AUTO REPAIR
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Complete Auto Repair for
receiving the 2019 Golden Rotary Ethics in
Business Award for a for-profit organization.
Ethical behavior has been the foundation for
which Complete Auto Repair has built their
foundation. Honesty, integrity, quality and con-
venience is the criteria used in every decision.
Their ethical standards have allowed them to
build lasting relationships with customers, and
to retain employees—many of who have been
with the company since day one. Currently,
Complete Auto Repair has served more than
3,600 individuals in our community.
Complete Auto Repair improves our com-
munity through their environmentally friendly
practices such as recycling their waste oil, fil-
ters, anti-freeze, and tires. They are also well
known for their generosity and contributions to
local high schools, elementary school fund-
raisers, the Toys for Tots campaign, American
Heart Association, various scholarship funds
and church fundraisers, and their participation
in events such as coaching youth sports.
Congratulations to everyone at Complete
Auto Repair on receiving the Golden Rotary
Ethics in Business Award. I thank them for
their continued commitment to our community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF INTERMETRO
INDUSTRIES FOR EXCELLENCE
IN MANUFACTURER PRODUCT IN-
NOVATION AND PROCESS IM-
PROVEMENT
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize InterMetro Industries on re-
ceiving an Excellence Award from the North-
east PA Manufacturers and Employers Asso-
ciation in the Manufacturer Product Innovation
and Process Improvement category. They will
be honored on May 7, 2019 for their accom-
plishments.
Founded in 1929 and headquartered in
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, InterMetro Indus-
tries (Metro) is a leading manufacturer in stor-
age and transport products for the food serv-
ice, commercial products, and health care in-
dustries. What started as a shelving company
has grown into a world-class, innovative, and
solutions-based company that has revolution-
ized the way many industries conduct their
day-to-day business.
InterMetro is being recognized for its
PrepMate MultiStation, an adjustable-height,
high-productivity worktable that has changed
the way food is prepared in commercial set-
tings. The PrepMate MultiStation’s unique de-
sign reduces food waste and operator fatigue.
This fairly-priced piece of equipment helps in-
crease efficiency in the kitchen by eliminating
the need to consistently change workspaces
for different purposes.
It is an honor to recognize InterMetro on this
outstanding accomplishment. I applaud the ex-
cellent work they’re doing to create revolu-
tionary new products to help businesses meet
the needs of their customers. I wish them the
best for many successful years to come.
f
IN HONOR OF REVEREND DOCTOR
C. MEDLEY HAYES
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor an outstanding Man of
God, a dedicated public servant, and dear
friend of longstanding, Rev. Dr. C. Medley
Hayes, who celebrated his 30th anniversary
as the distinguished pastor of Greater Beulah
Missionary Baptist Church in Columbus, Geor-
gia on Sunday, May 5, 2019 at 3 p.m.
Rev. Dr. Chester Medley Hayes was born in
Miami, Florida and grew up in Alabama grad-
uating from Warren Smith High School in New
Brocton, Alabama. He earned his Bachelor of
Ministry degree in 1984, his Master of Ministry
degree in 1987, and his Doctorate of Ministry
degree in 1989. He was trained in Ground
Surveillance and Ground Control Approach
Radar through the U.S. Army and has 21
years experience in telecommunications. He
founded and managed Companion Medical
Equipment Company in 1994 and has been in-
volved in Network Marketing with some of the
strongest companies in the industry since he
was 22 years of age.
At the age of twenty-six, Rev. Hayes ac-
cepted his call to preach the Gospel of Christ
beginning his pastoral ministry at Big Creek
Baptist Church in Clio, Alabama, a rather
small church that consisted of about seventy
members. From there, he pastored Morning
Star Baptist Church in Troy, Alabama, Saint
Paul Baptist Church in Pinckard, Alabama,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07MY8.001 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E546 May 7, 2019
and Morning Star Baptist Church in Enterprise,
Alabama. In 1989, Rev. Hayes was called to
be the pastor and spiritual leader of Greater
Beulah Missionary Baptist Church in Colum-
bus, Georgia and he and his family moved to
the Fountain City.
For the past 30 years, he has served as a
guiding light and beacon of hope for the con-
gregation of Greater Beulah Missionary Baptist
Church and the Columbus community. Rev.
Hayes believes that you enter the church to
worship, but you leave to serve. Therefore, his
ministry has been to take the church and the
teachings of Christ beyond the church building
into the community and throughout the world.
Outside of the church, Rev. Hayes has also
proved himself a true servant of the commu-
nities in which he has lived. At the age of 26,
he became the Chairman of the Coffee Coun-
ty, Alabama branch of the Alabama Demo-
cratic Conference, a post that he held for eight
years. Years later, he was appointed by then
Georgia Governor Zell Miller and later Gov-
ernor Roy Barnes to serve on Georgia’s Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Commission. Hav-
ing seen issues arise with human trafficking,
he was moved to open two group homes for
girls. Because of his love for young people, he
opened a counseling center called ‘‘Mentoring
Youth.’’ As a result of his tremendous advo-
cacy and support for the Columbus commu-
nity, on August 8, 2017, the Council of the Co-
lumbus Consolidated Government named the
intersection of 6th Street and 6th Avenue as
‘‘C. Medley Hayes Way.’’
Always seeking to improve his craft in disci-
pleship and Christian ministry, he has been a
longtime member of the National Baptist Con-
vention, USA; General Missionary Baptist
Convention of Georgia (G.M.B.C.); Fourth Dis-
trict of G.M.B.C.; Mount Calvary Missionary
Baptist Association; along with many other
faith-based organizations.
The great agricultural chemist, Dr. George
Washington Carver once said that, ‘‘How far
you go in life depends on your being tender
with young, compassionate with the aged,
sympathetic with the striving and tolerant of
the weak and strong. Because someday in
your life you will have been all of these.’’ Rev-
erend Hayes has gone far in his ministry and
in life because of his love for all people in the
same vein as his Lord and Savior, Jesus
Christ.
On a personal note, Rev. Hayes has been
a great friend and supporter over the many
years I have known him. I value his wise
counsel and sage advice. He never told me
only what I wanted to hear, but always told me
what I needed to hear. And for that, I am
grateful.
Reverend Hayes has achieved much in his
life, but none of it would be possible but for
the Grace of God and the love and the sup-
port of his wife, Stephanie, and their children,
Leon, Lester, Tonya, Alyssa, Tiffany, and So-
phia. Rev. Hayes is man of great accomplish-
ment, an outstanding mentor, and a strong
leader, but above all, he is a faithful servant
of God.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the con-
gregation of Greater Beulah Missionary Baptist
Church and the 730,000 residents of Geor-
gia’s Second Congressional District, in con-
gratulating Rev. Dr. C. Medley Hayes on the
joyous occasion of his 30th pastoral anniver-
sary.
INTRODUCTION OF THE PREVENT
BLOOD LOSS WITH EMERGENCY
EQUIPMENT DEVICES ACT OF
2019
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Prevent Blood Loss with
Emergency Equipment Devices Act of 2019—
the Prevent BLEEDing Act—legislation that
would expand access to Bleeding Control Kits
(BCKs) in public gathering places across the
country. I would like to thank my colleague,
Dr. BRAD WENSTRUP, for introducing this legis-
lation with me, which will help to save lives
during emergency situations.
Approximately 214,000 people die every
year from traumatic incidents. Motor vehicle
crashes, shootings, natural disasters, and
workplace accidents, to name just a few, of-
tentimes result in situations where people suf-
fer traumatic blood loss. Such an injury can
lead to death within five minutes, where many
of these deaths can be prevented. The Pre-
vent BLEEDing Act will help states to dis-
tribute thousands of BCKs to schools, librar-
ies, places of worship, concert venues, shop-
ping malls, and any other place where people
gather, while providing staff and volunteers at
these facilities with the necessary training to
utilize the materials.
Following the disaster at Sandy Hook in De-
cember 2012, the American College of Sur-
geons (ACS) as well as others in the medical
community, the federal government, and the
U.S. military, convened the Joint Committee to
Create a National Policy to Enhance Surviv-
ability from Active Shooter Events and Inten-
tional Mass Casualty. The committee’s rec-
ommendations are called the Hartford Con-
sensus, and they led to the establishment of
the Stop the Bleed Program, a national aware-
ness campaign to train and equip everyday
Americans with the skills to help in a bleeding
emergency before professional help arrives.
To date, Stop the Bleed has trained nearly
125,000 Americans anti blood-loss skills, em-
powering them to help prevent unnecessary
deaths from blood loss.
This legislation builds on that program’s
successes by amending the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to make it easier for states to
apply for BCKs through the Homeland Secu-
rity Grant Program (HSGP). By making these
materials more accessible during times of dis-
aster, bystanders with little or no medical train-
ing can save lives when confronted with trau-
matic injury, similar to the use of CPR or auto-
matic defibrillators (AEDs).
Madam Speaker, this bill will help save
lives. We can’t prevent disasters, but we can
help to ensure we are ready to respond to
them. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
f
CONGRATULATING SUE MALAHY
FOR WINNING THE GOLDEN
APPLE AWARD
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Sue Malahy for winning the Gold-
en Apple Award. Ms. Malahy is the first edu-
cator from downstate Illinois who has received
this award.
Ms. Malahy serves as the Principal at
Charles Lindbergh Middle School in Peoria, Il-
linois. Upon receiving the award, she was
greeted in the school’s gymnasium by golden
balloons and singing middle school students to
show their appreciation for her work and con-
gratulate her on this outstanding achievement.
Ms. Malahy as earned the admiration of her
colleagues and students through her leader-
ship. After five years with Ms. Malahy as prin-
cipal, Lindbergh Middle School is known for
having a positive culture for students and
teachers to grow and support one another in-
side and outside of the classroom. One of the
area where Ms. Malahy has led the way is
helping teachers use data to recognize stu-
dents’ achievements. In addition, she has in-
troduced programs for students to arrive early
before school to study subjects such as alge-
bra and Spanish. As a result of winning this
award, her middle school will receive a prize
to put towards enhancements at the school,
while Ms. Malahy will use her prize to help
prepare Illinois undergraduate students inter-
ested in pursuing a career in education. I ap-
plaud Ms. Malahy’s successful efforts to make
her school a better place to learn.
It is because of dedicated leaders such as
Ms. Malahy that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate Ms. Malahy on winning the Gold-
en Apple Award.
f
HONORING NEIGHBORHOOD CON-
NECTIONS OF LONDONDERRY,
VERMONT ON THE OCCASION OF
ITS 10TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. PETER WELCH
OF VERMONT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. WELCH. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pride that I rise today to pay tribute to
Neighborhood Connections of Londonderry,
Vermont which will be celebrating its 10th an-
niversary on May 17th. I especially want to
recognize the vision of its two founding part-
ners, Dr. Dolores Barbeau and Gloria Dawson,
who identified a need in their community and
had the energy and skills to deliver results that
have improved the lives of their neighbors.
Today Neighborhood Connections serves
nine towns in rural, south-central Vermont.
This is an area of my state where many resi-
dents are vulnerable to poverty, food and em-
ployment insecurity, lack of transportation,
mental and physical health issues, disability,
isolation and simply not knowing where to turn
for basic support.
Neighborhood Connections is a vital organi-
zation committed to welcoming all people
through its doors, regardless of challenge or fi-
nancial status, to help them navigate a range
of personal difficulties by connecting them with
all forms of available assistance. Its focus is
on the most vulnerable and those who face
barriers to care.
It offers a myriad of services from con-
necting people to transportation, housing,
heating and employment assistance to helping
people access disability and income benefits,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.002 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E547
May 7, 2019
Medicare, Medicaid and tax preparation assist-
ance. The small professional staff offers coun-
seling, crisis management assistance and
home visits primarily to elderly and disabled
residents. They ‘‘walk with’’ those they serve,
offering support for ‘‘as long as it takes.’’ In a
given year, Neighborhood Connections deliv-
ers over 1,200 services to individuals and fam-
ilies, 90 percent of whom fall below the federal
poverty level and 80 percent of whom have
significant mental or physical health issues.
Neighborhood Connections is committed to
the ‘‘total well-being’’ of communities to im-
prove health and quality of life for all. In short,
it exists to foster hope, particularly for vulner-
able individuals and families, by delivering
care and connecting everyone who walks
through its doors to comprehensive wellbeing
support.
The motto of Neighborhood Connections is
simple: ‘‘Neighbors Helping Neighbors.’’ For
ten years they have been fulfilling their vital
mission and I know they will continue their
work for many years to come.
Madam Speaker, I urge the House to join
me today in paying tribute to Neighborhood
Connections, Dolores Barbeau, and Gloria
Dawson for the countless ways they have im-
proved the quality of life for people in south-
central Vermont. Congratulations on this re-
markable milestone and best wishes for many
more years of success.
f
THE JEFFERSON CENTER
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud The Jefferson
Center for receiving the 2019 Golden Rotary
Ethics in Business Award for a non-profit orga-
nization.
To receive this award an organization must
maintain integrity, conviction and possess high
ethical standards demonstrated by the treat-
ment of customers, employees, community
and the environment. The Jefferson Center
checks all those boxes. The Jefferson Center
is a mental health and substance use organi-
zation committed to making mental health care
accessible to all. Each year, The Jefferson
Center helps bring hope for a brighter future to
thousands of community members who strug-
gle with mental health and substance abuse
disorders and individuals whose mental health
problems contribute to difficulties at work or
school or who have endured hospitalization,
homelessness, or even involvement with the
juvenile or criminal justice system.
The Jefferson Center’s programs and serv-
ices serve people of all ages and encourage
recovery and resiliency of clients throughout
their treatment. Their services include out-
patient counseling, 24-hour emergency serv-
ices, wellness classes, recovery-focused sup-
port groups, vocational services, homeless
prevention assistance and school-based coun-
seling. Because The Jefferson Center offices
are throughout our neighborhoods, the Cen-
ter’s staff members are intertwined in the com-
munity and provide personal care to the peo-
ple they treat.
I extend my deepest congratulations to The
Jefferson Center for this well-deserved rec-
ognition by the Golden Rotary Club.
RECOGNIZING EVAN PRESS
HON. TONY CÁRDENAS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize a San Fernando Valley native and
constituent of mine, Evan Press.
Mr. Press has worked tirelessly to improve
the Greater San Fernando Valley and give
back to his community. Earning a degree in
Political Science from our state schools at UC
Berkeley and San Francisco State University
as well as a Certificate in Financial Planning
from UCLA, Mr. Press briefly worked in San
Francisco for the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development. Thereafter he
brought his wealth of knowledge to our com-
munity’s Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Press
began his work in the Chamber of Commerce
in 2015 where he worked his way up from
serving as the Chairman on the Chamber’s
Government Affairs Committee to leading the
Chamber as Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Press helped establish the San Fer-
nando Valley Regional Foundation, which ad-
vances economic, community, and educational
development in the area. Further, while Board
Chair, the Chamber’s Job Training Program
expanded with over 800 workers learning
management and leadership skills. Mr. Press
has shown his clear commitment to the finan-
cial success of his community by working to
promote San Fernando’s small businesses. As
Chairman, Mr. Press advocated to decrease
costs and streamline the process for the Val-
ley’s emerging independent brewing industry.
He worked with Valley entrepreneurs to help
them navigate the difficulties of opening new
stores and setting up new businesses. Even in
retirement, Mr. Press continues to serve the
San Fernando Valley as an Independent Fi-
nancial Consultant.
I applaud Mr. Press and his commitment to
our community. Such a prominent business
leader and respected community member de-
serves recognition. I hope Mr. Press’ efforts
inspire other Angelenos to dedicate them-
selves to the economic success of their neigh-
bors and the Greater San Fernando Valley.
f
CONGRATULATING THE PEANUT &
TREE NUT PROCESSORS ASSO-
CIATION ON ITS 80TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. DONALD S. BEYER, JR.
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
ask the House of Representatives to join me
in congratulating The Peanut & Tree Nut Proc-
essors Association (PTNPA). The PTNPA was
established in 1939 and is proud to be cele-
brating its 80th anniversary in 2019.
Headquartered in Virginia’s 8th Congres-
sional District, the PTNPA is an association of
leading nut industry companies and represent-
atives. PTNPA member companies range from
large global organizations to small family-
owned businesses that focus on the food in-
dustry production of peanuts and tree nuts—
along with companies who supply equipment
and services critical to the nut industry. The
PTNPA also works closely with nut and food
industry associations, alliances, and coalitions.
PTNPA member companies generate bil-
lions of dollars in today’s global economy and
are growing in response to consumer interests
and demands. Eighty percent of PTNPA’s em-
ployees are constituents of mine lead by Ex-
ecutive Director Jeannie Shaughnessy. The vi-
sion of the PTNPA is to be ‘‘The Voice of
America’s Nut Industry’’.
Madam Speaker, for these reasons I ask
the House of Representatives to join me in
congratulating the association and its mem-
bers on their 80th anniversary.
f
OATH CEREMONY ON MAY 10, 2019
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure and sincerity that I take this
time to congratulate thirty individuals who will
take their oaths of citizenship on May 10,
2019. This memorable occasion will be held at
the United States Courthouse and Federal
Building in Hammond, Indiana.
America is a country founded by immi-
grants. From its beginning, settlers have come
from countries around the world to the United
States in search of better lives for their fami-
lies. Oath ceremonies are a shining example
of what is so great about the United States of
America—that people from all over the world
can come together and unite as members of
a free, democratic nation. These individuals
realize that nowhere else in the world offers a
better opportunity for success than here in
America.
On May 10, 2019, the following people, rep-
resenting many nations throughout the world,
will take their oaths of citizenship in Ham-
mond, Indiana: Amorette Jackson Vorkpor,
Ragubir Singh Rathore, Zeyad Khalaf Al
Sedra Al Sedra, Bushra Thamer Mohsin,
Jason Christopher Richardson, Sana Hajira
Kendrix, Mari Diaz, Marisol Lopez Pantoja,
Felipe Garcilazo Garcilazo, Alexandros
Angelos Taflanidis, Henry G. Huang, Carlos
Magdaleno, Teodora Orduno Gutierrez, Geena
Jikyung Kam, Natalie B. Leonov, Andres Loza,
Ying-Ling Lin, Araceli Magdaleno, Janet V.
Fatti, Mourad Takawi, Veronica Gonzalez,
Qusai M. Odeh, Ana Delia Aleman Lorenzo,
Estela Reyes, Boubacar Bouka Gamby,
Norma Alicia Garmendiz, Mika Trivunovic,
Adrian Jaesim, Hisham Mahmoud Salih
Abidallh and Stanislawa Antonina Malochleb.
Although each individual has sought to be-
come a citizen of the United States for his or
her own reasons, be it for education, occupa-
tion, or to offer their loved ones better lives,
each is inspired by the fact that the United
States of America is, as Abraham Lincoln de-
scribed it, a country ‘‘. . . of the people, by the
people, and for the people.’’ They realize that
the United States is truly a free nation. By
seeking American citizenship, they have made
the decision that they want to live in a place
where, as guaranteed by the First Amendment
of the Constitution, they can practice religion
as they choose, speak their minds without fear
of punishment, and assemble in peaceful pro-
test should they choose to do so.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.005 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E548 May 7, 2019
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask you and
my other distinguished colleagues to join me
in congratulating these individuals who will be-
come citizens of the United States of America
on May 10, 2019. They, too, are American citi-
zens, guaranteed the inalienable rights to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We, as a
free and democratic nation, congratulate them
and welcome them.
f
HONORING DONALD WERLING, 2019
CENTRAL OHIO SENIOR CITIZENS
HALL OF FAME INDUCTEE
HON. JIM JORDAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Speaker, the Central
Ohio Area Agency on Aging will host the 44th
annual Central Ohio Senior Citizens Hall of
Fame induction ceremony on Wednesday,
May 15, in Columbus. I am honored to com-
mend to the House one of this year’s out-
standing inductees: Donald Werling of
Marysville.
Don has dedicated countless hours to help-
ing his fellow senior citizens be safer in their
homes. After conducting assessments of a
senior’s house, he draws up plans for basic
safety modifications—everything from wheel-
chair ramps to hand railings to bathroom grab
bars. As needed, he helps acquire any nec-
essary permits and obtains quotes for mate-
rials. Refusing to decline help to anyone in
need, he often recruits sponsors and volun-
teers to help him complete projects at no cost
to the homeowner. In 2018 alone, Don and his
volunteers completed 64 much-needed ren-
ovation projects throughout Union County.
Madam Speaker, selection for the Central
Ohio Senior Citizens Hall of Fame is a high
honor accorded to seniors who have devoted
their lives to service to others. I am pleased to
join in the accolades to Donald Werling on his
induction, and thank the Central Ohio Area
Agency on Aging for recognizing his many
sacrifices and those of all of this year’s induct-
ees.
f
RECOGNIZING 125 YEARS OF
SERVICE BY WINONA HEALTH
HON. JIM HAGEDORN
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. HAGEDORN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Winona Health.
One-hundred and twenty-five years ago, Wi-
nona Health started with $4,500 to create the
18-bed Winona General Hospital. Certainly,
Winona Health has grown over the years, but
its focus on serving the community and pro-
viding quality health care has stayed the
same.
Winona Health’s high quality health care is
a reflection of the hard work of its doctors, as-
sociate providers, staff and volunteers.
All Americans deserve access to quality,
timely medical care. I’m thankful the residents
of Winona and surrounding areas have a fine
medical provider in Winona Health. Congratu-
lations on 125 years.
IN RECOGNITION OF DWIGHT
SPARKS’ CONTRIBUTIONS TO
THE DAVIE COUNTY ENTERPRISE
HON. TED BUDD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Dwight Sparks, who retired from the
Davie County Enterprise and Clemmons Cou-
rier on June 1, 2018.
Mr. Sparks began his journalism career in
1985, helping turn the Davie County Enter-
prise into a traditional newspaper. At one
point, the Enterprise delivered roughly 10,000
copies a week to subscribers. This may not
seem like a large number, but perhaps the
next fact will highlight how successful Mr.
Sparks was in growing the Davie County En-
terprise.
During the 1980s, the Davie County Enter-
prise had the second largest paid circulation in
North Carolina among the weeklies. For a
small, rural county like Davie, this is a big
deal.
He initially worked for the Salisbury Post.
And after years in Salisbury, he moved over to
the Winston-Salem Journal where he eventu-
ally became editor and remained for seven
years. Not only was Mr. Sparks a very tal-
ented journalist, but I think that his Davie
County roots helped him tell important stories
in a unique way.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
celebrating Dwight Sparks and wishing him a
wonderful retirement.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CHRISTIAN
ALVARADO
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to recognize Christian Alvarado, a 2019
recipient of the North Texas in DC Internship
Program Legacy Award. As a fellow University
of North Texas alum, it is my privilege to rec-
ognize this outstanding Texan for his many
achievements.
Currently, Christian is the co-founder of
CBTX Capital, an investment and real estate
development firm based in Austin, Texas.
Prior to co-founding CBTX Capital, Christian
served as the chief of staff and counsel to the
chairman of the Texas Railroad Commission.
Previously, he worked as an attorney at
Jackson Walker, LLP where he advised cor-
porate clients on various business transactions
including securities, mergers and acquisitions,
business formation and governance. He also
has served as a special assistant to then-
Texas Secretary of State Roger Williams.
Governor Perry appointed Christian to the
One Call Board of Texas, and Governor Ab-
bott appointed him to serve as a board mem-
ber of the Department of Information Re-
sources. Additionally, he is the board presi-
dent of Austin Angels, a non-profit organiza-
tion that provides assistance to local foster
children.
As evidenced by his distinguished track
record of accomplishments, Christian has
spent much of his career in service to his fel-
low Texans. I congratulate him on this honor,
and wish the entire Alvarado family every con-
tinued success.
f
HONORING SHIRLEY MONACELLI
AS AMHERST WOMEN’S
INTERCLUB COUNCIL HONOREE
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the life and ac-
complishments of Shirley Monacelli as she is
honored by the Amherst Women’s Interclub
Council for her lifetime of service to her com-
munity.
As a dedicated educator, Shirley began her
career teaching grades Nursery through 3rd
Grade in the Niagara Falls School System, as
well as evening classes in English for adults
seeking U.S. Citizenship or their GED. Addi-
tionally, she served as an adjunct professor at
Niagara County Community College where
she designed and taught her own Early Child-
hood Education Curriculum.
In 1980, Shirley started her lifetime of com-
munity service by volunteering as an usher
and in the gift shop at Art Park. She continued
in that volunteer role for 30 years , picking up
numerous other volunteer roles along the way
which she continues to participate in to this
day.
Shirley has touched the lives of so many in-
dividuals as a leader, educator, and neighbor
in her community. Her roles stretch from a
Chairwoman of the New York State Council
for Children State Conference, to working the
Information Office at the Amherst Senior Cen-
ter, to teaching Religious Education at St.
Gregory the Great.
Dedicated community leaders such as Shir-
ley, who are committed to serving the Western
New York Community and to making life en-
joyable and fulfilling for all our neighbors, are
part of what makes Western New York such a
special place to live.
Madam Speaker, I recognize Shirley
Monacelli as she is honored by the Amherst
Women’s Interclub Council for her lifetime of
service to her community. Her devotion to en-
riching the lives of others through community
service and volunteer work is an inspiration to
everyone who seeks to better the world in
which we live.
f
HONORING THE 2019 NATIONAL
SCIENCE BOWL FINALISTS FROM
NAPERVILLE NORTH HIGH
SCHOOL
HON. BILL FOSTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the National Science Bowl team
of Naperville North High School and to com-
mend them on reaching the national finals of
the high school academic competition.
Since 1991, the Office of Science’s National
Science Bowl has hosted some of the nation’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07MY8.006 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E549
May 7, 2019
most intelligent students for one of the largest
and most prestigious academic competitions.
Every year, teams from 64 schools around the
country compete to demonstrate their under-
standing of the great issues in mathematics
and science.
I want to congratulate the Naperville North
High School team on reaching the national
finals and on placing first in SLAC Division
Team Challenge. The talent and knowledge
present in these students are truly impressive,
and as Congress’ resident PhD-trained physi-
cist, I wish them the best of luck in their future
endeavors.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, on
Thursday, May 2, 2019 I was inadvertently de-
tained on Roll Call Votes 175 through 184.
Had I been present to vote, I would have
voted in the following manner: No on roll Call
No. 175; Yes on Roll Call Vote 176; Yes on
Roll Call Vote 177; No on Roll Call Vote 178;
Yes on Roll Call Vote 179; No on Roll Call
Vote 180; No on Roll Call Vote 181; No on
Roll Call Vote 182; Yes on Roll Call Vote 183;
and No on Roll Call Vote 184.
f
CONGRATULATING GWEN
TOMBERGS ON WINNING THE
QUAD-CITIES ATHENA LEADER-
SHIP AWARD
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Gwen Tombergs for winning the
Quad-Cities Athena Leadership Award for em-
powering and mentoring women throughout
their careers. Ms. Tombergs is the first female
president in the Southern Professional Hockey
League for the Quad-City Storm.
The Quad-Cities Athena Awards were
founded 14 years ago by a group of women
focused on female leadership and gender di-
versity. Ms. Tombergs embodies the spirit of
this award through her work in our community.
She has had an outstanding career where she
led the way and shaped the lives of women at
places such as casinos, Lujack’s, the Quad-
City Times and the Quad-Cities Chamber of
Commerce—culminating with the nomination
for this distinguished award. However, Ms.
Tombergs did not stop there—she has taken
on multiple leadership roles within the Quad-
City Thunder CBA Basketball Team, the
Quad-City Sports Center, the New York Mets
and now the Quad-City Storm hockey team.
Ms. Tombergs has been a steadfast advocate
for young women in the Quad-Cities region,
and is an asset to our community. I am grate-
ful for her leadership and wish her continued
success in the future.
It is because of dedicated leaders like Ms.
Tombergs that I am especially proud to serve
Illinois’ 17th Congressional District. Madam
Speaker, I would like to again formally con-
gratulate Gwen Tombergs for winning the
Quad-Cities Athena Award and thank her for
empowering women in everything she does.
f
HONORING THE 2019 BROWARD
SENIOR HALL OF FAME ELECTEES
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate ten exemplary men
and women from Broward County who will be
inducted to the Broward Senior Hall of Fame
this week.
Each year, the Aging & Disability Resource
Center of Broward County honors elder excel-
lence in the volunteer sector of Broward Coun-
ty. These outstanding citizens are individuals
from all walks of life who have contributed
greatly to the vibrancy and well-being of South
Florida. They are engaged in distinguished
volunteer service that benefit our communities
and make Broward County the outstanding
place that it is to live, raise a family, and re-
tire.
The ten distinguished electees are Barbara
‘‘Bobbi’’ Arnold of Hollywood, Beauregard
Cummings of Ft. Lauderdale, Gail Gannotta of
Pompano Beach, Ruby Hutson of Lauderdale
Lakes, Jean Merget of Ft. Lauderdale, Art
Schmall of Margate, Florie Scott of Lauderdale
Lakes, Carl Shechter of Pembroke Pines, Har-
old Smith of Davie, and Aline Zucker of Coo-
per City.
Again, congratulations to these outstanding
individuals. I wish them the best of luck with
their induction and continued service to
Broward County. It is with great pleasure that
I honor them, and I look forward to hearing of
their continued service activities.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE PRE-
PARING LOCALITIES FOR AN AU-
TONOMOUS AND CONNECTED EN-
VIRONMENT ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I introduced the Preparing Localities for an Au-
tonomous and Connected Environment
(PLACE) Act. This legislation would create a
federally funded highly automated vehicle
clearinghouse to examine the secondary influ-
ences of autonomous vehicles on land use,
real estate, transportation, municipal budgets,
urban design, the environment, and social eq-
uity.
The transportation sector is changing at a
faster pace than ever before. New mobility op-
tions like transportation network companies,
bikeshare, scooters, and more have already
disrupted how Americans get around. And with
more than 300 companies and partnerships
working toward bringing semi- or fully-autono-
mous vehicles to market in the near future, the
landscape is set to change even faster. While
Congress has started to debate autonomous
vehicle legislation, little attention has been
paid to the secondary influences of autono-
mous vehicles once they are deployed onto
the roads. Done right, autonomous vehicles
can solve some of the country’s most vexing
transportation problems while improving mobil-
ity for all. Done wrong, autonomous vehicles
can exacerbate transportation’s negative
externalities, leaving communities struggling to
make sense of an ever-changing landscape.
The PLACE Act will help communities better
prepare for rapidly-changing environments
while providing policymakers with the tools
and research they need to make great places.
I look forward to working with my colleague
and the Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee to enacting this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING JOANNA CLOUD FOR
HER TENURE AS EXECUTIVE DI-
RECTOR OF THE LAKE LANIER
ASSOCIATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in recognition of Joanna Cloud’s
nine-year tenure as Executive Director of the
Lake Lanier Association.
Since Joanna first stepped into the role of
Executive Director in August of 2010, the Lake
Lanier Association has experienced incredible
growth. Under her leadership, the Associa-
tion’s annual income has tripled, and lake-
based programs, membership and services
have expanded significantly. She led several
projects to implement much-needed improve-
ments to Lake Lanier, including placing solar
lights on hazard markers for boating safety,
and preventing further erosion by placing
heavy rocks on the edges of the lake islands.
Joanna was especially passionate about re-
moving abandoned docks and vessels, which
required her to garner support from state law-
makers to attain the funding necessary to
complete the project. Because of her steadfast
commitment, approximately 60 abandoned
and rundown docks and boats on Lake Lanier
were removed between 2015 and 2018.
Joanna’s hard work and dedication over the
past decade helped ensure the over 4 million
people in the surrounding area would continue
to have access to clean drinking water, and
thanks to her leadership, families in Northeast
Georgia will be able to continue enjoying Lake
Lanier for many years to come.
Personally, I’d like to thank Joanna for her
friendship and for working steadily with me
and my office. On behalf of the people of
Northeast Georgia, I want to thank Joanna for
her hard work and dedication to improving our
community. I wish her the best of luck in her
future endeavors.
f
HONORING COUNCILMAN ERIC
TURNER FOR TWENTY-FOUR
YEARS OF SERVICE
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today, I
would like to honor Peoria City Councilman,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.009 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E550 May 7, 2019
Eric Turner, for his twenty-four years of serv-
ice to Peoria, Illinois.
Councilman Turner will retire as the longest
tenured member of the current Peoria City
Council. In his service to the City Council, Eric
Turner has truly worked to benefit all of Peoria
as an At Large Councilman. His public service
left a profound impact on our community.
Outside of Turner’s public service to Peoria,
he served our nation proudly in Vietnam from
1966 to 1967, and he still plays a key role in
coordinating Peoria’s Memorial Day events
held at our riverfront each year. Councilman
Turner has left his mark on the business
world, as well. He had a forty-one year career
at Caterpillar Inc., working in marketing and
human resources.
I am grateful for Eric Turner’s time and com-
mitment to the City of Peoria. His work, as a
public servant and private citizen, left a legacy
in the Peoria community that will remain for
generations to come.
f
HONORING GREENS’S CLEANERS,
INC.
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Greene’s
Cleaners on its 100th anniversary.
The late George Greene started Greene’s
Cleaners in 1919. The business was bought
by Glenn and Helen Paulsen in 1957, who
sold the business to Peter and Terry Smith in
1979. In 2009, the Smiths sold Greene’s
Cleaners to Laurie and Alonso Corona, their
daughter and son-in-law. Mr. and Ms. Corona
both graduated from the University of Cali-
fornia, Santa Cruz with a Bachelor of Arts in
Business Management. Ms. Corona also
earned an MBA from Sonoma State Univer-
sity.
Greene’s Cleaners is an integral part of our
community and has provided support to many
people and organizations throughout Napa
County. During the recent North Bay fires,
Greene’s Cleaners cleaned 5,000 pounds of
donated clothing for fire survivors and helped
organize a pop-up store for people in need. At
Christmas, Greene’s Cleaners collect dona-
tions, which are given to the Salvation Army’s
Toys for Tots program. For food and clothing
drives throughout the year, Greene’s Cleaners
often provides drop-off locations and will pick
up donations from customers who are unable
to drop them off. Greene’s Cleaners financially
supports local schools and is a sponsor of Lit-
tle League and Napa Junior Girls Softball.
Greene’s Cleaners is an important small
business in our area. It employs thirty-three
people between its two locations. Mr. Corona
is a member of numerous Chambers of Com-
merce, including the Napa, St. Helena, and
Sonoma chapters, and is a member of the
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Greene’s
Cleaners is also associated with America’s
Best Cleaners. Mr. and Ms. Corona have
worked hard to make Greene’s Cleaners envi-
ronmentally sustainable and continue to work
towards that goal. The stores use bio-based
solvent, low wattage LED lighting, and water
recycling.
Madam Speaker, Greene’s Cleaners has
been an important institution in our community
for 100 years. It is therefore fitting and proper
that we honor its 100th anniversary here
today.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF TAYLOE AND
HELEN MURPHY
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of this year’s Outstanding
Virginians, Tayloe and Helen Murphy, two
dedicated servant leaders from the First Dis-
trict of Virginia.
Tayloe Murphy received his Bachelor’s de-
gree from Hampden-Sydney College in 1953
and his law degree from the University of Vir-
ginia in 1960. He was commissioned an En-
sign in the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1954 to
1957. He then served aboard the U.S.S. New-
port News, and later on the staff of the Su-
preme Allied Commander of NATO. Tayloe
Murphy was elected to the Virginia General
Assembly as a Delegate to represent the 99th
District from 1982 until his retirement in 2000.
His committee assignments included Labor
and Commerce, Courts of Justice, Corpora-
tions Insurance and Banking, and Chesapeake
and Its Tributaries. He was later appointed
Secretary of Natural Resources under Gov-
ernor Mark Warner. Throughout his political
career and beyond, Murphy has been a cham-
pion of the environment. He has worked hard
to be a leader in the efforts to clean up the
Chesapeake Bay, with includes his landmark
legislation in 1988, the Chesapeake Bay Pres-
ervation Act.
Helen Murphy graduated from Sweet Briar
College in 1956, and shortly after, married
Tayloe. Helen is also an avid environmentalist
who has dedicated her life to conservation.
Helen served on the board of the Nature Con-
servancy, Lewis Ginter Botanical Gardens,
and the Virginia Outdoors Foundation, among
others, and was a founding member of The
Garden Club of the Northern Neck. Helen also
served as the President of the Menokin Foun-
dation and was awarded Volunteer of the Year
by the Association of Fundraising Profes-
sionals Central Virginia Chapter in 1999.
The couple continues to work to address
environmental issues to this day. Tayloe and
Helen have devoted their lives to leaving a
legacy through their leadership and unrelent-
ing conservation efforts in the Commonwealth
and the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Tayloe
and Helen could not be more deserving of this
year’s Outstanding Virginian Award.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the incredible accomplishments
and devotion of Tayloe and Helen Murphy.
Words alone cannot express our gratitude for
their service to our great Commonwealth of
Virginia. May God bless Tayloe and Helen
Murphy in all their future endeavors.
RECOGNIZING THE 175TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE FOUNDING OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF ALBANY
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise to mark
the 175th anniversary of the founding of the
University at Albany on the principles ‘‘wisdom
both for its own sake and for the sake of
teaching’’ sapientia et sua et docendi causa.
The University at Albany was founded by
the New York State Legislature on May 7,
1844 as the New York State Normal School,
dedicated to ensuring that New York’s next
generation of teachers would be highly
trained. Through the 19th century, the New
York State Normal School educated teachers
and school administrators and provided oppor-
tunities for social and economic mobility.
Between 1890 and 1905, the school was
transformed from a two-year teacher training
school into a four-year liberal arts college,
granting its first bachelor’s degree in 1893. In
1914, the school was renamed the New York
State College for Teachers, and by the 1950s
started offering a Ph.D. program in education.
In the early 1960s, the college broadened
from its focus on teaching to a university with
a more comprehensive scope. In 1962, a
major expansion of the broader SUNY system
heralded the University at Albany’s first class
of undergraduate students in liberal arts pro-
grams without required study in teacher edu-
cation. The University at Albany continued its
evolution into a leading research university in
the decades that followed.
Today, the University at Albany is a nation-
ally respected Research 1 university and a
major employer and economic driver of the
surrounding economy with a $1 billion annual
impact on New York’s Capital Region. The
school maintains 18 NCAA Division I athletic
teams that share in the school’s legacy of ex-
cellence; in 2018, the University at Albany
Men’s Lacrosse team became the first State
University of New York Division I team to be
ranked No. 1 in the nation. And with an enroll-
ment level of nearly 18,000 students today,
the University at Albany has earned national
recognition for supporting students from tradi-
tionally underrepresented backgrounds on col-
lege campuses.
The University at Albany continues to build
on its strong tradition as one of our nation’s
leading and most diverse research institutions.
I am incredibly proud of the students, faculty,
staff and alumni who have made the Univer-
sity at Albany what it is today. May they carry
their success forward for another 175 years
and beyond.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE ST.
FRANCIS XAVIER CATHOLIC
HIGH SCHOOL CLASS OF 1969
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to recognize the St. Francis Xavier High
School Class of 1969.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.015 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E551
May 7, 2019
Fifty years ago, 287 students graduated
from St. Francis Xavier Catholic High School
in Appleton, Wisconsin. Members of the class
have gone on to be leaders in the community
and emulate the school’s central principles of
faith, hope, justice, and charity. Many now
serve as role models for young men and
women in their own communities nationwide.
The May 25, 1969 graduates include:
Stephen Abitz, Kathleen Ann Arens, Cath-
erine Babb, Kathy Bachman, Daniel J. Balliet,
Richard M. Balza, Robert James Balza, Joyce
A. Barkholtz, Michael J. Barras, Tim J. Bartelt,
Edward A. Baum, Marilyn Baum, Barbara M.
Bayer, Patricia Bayer, Suzanne C. Beaudoin,
Susan Becker, Karen L. Besch, Marcelline F.
Beschta, Eugene Michael Bissing, James T.
Black, Marilyn J. Blick, Barbara Anne Bobber,
Betty Lou Bock, Susan M. Bonner, Joanne
Elizabeth Booth, Nancy Bowers, Loretta H.
Brandt, Barbara Jeanne Brayton, Sue E.
Breitenbach, Thomas R. Brinsko, Jeffrey L.
Brum, Robert L. Burch, David T. Burke, Mark
Edward Calmes, Lynn A. Carew, Kathrynn
Ann Carpenter, Mary Lou Cassidy, Mary F.
Christianson, Michael Clark, Mary A. Connolly,
Joyce Mary Crawford, Kathleen Damon, Patri-
cia Ann Day, Jane E. Deckers, Patricia Ann
DeGroot, Charles J. Deibele, Michael Dengel,
Patricia A. De Noble, Donna Dexheimer, Jean
Ann De Young, Richard E. Diedrick, Margaret
Dietz, Doris Dietzen, Robert J. Doherty, Linda
Dorzweiler, Cynthia A. Dougherty, Janis E.
Driscoll, Patricia M. Early, James E. Eisner,
Patricia Ellenbecker, Jeanne M. Erchul, Nancy
J. Escamilla, Robert Femal, Christine M.
Ferron, Michael E. Ferron, Shirley M.
Feuerstein, Richard J. Fischer, Kathleen
Flanagan, Barbara A. Flood, William F.
Floodstrand, Jacinta Mary Fralun, Robert H.
Fullarton, David Francis Gage, Anna Garvey,
Jennifer A. Garvey, Sharon Gass, Sue Ann
Gatz, William P. Gedemer, Cynthia M. Geurts,
Jane Ann Gilbert, John R. Gloudemans,
James J. Gloudemans, Brad J. Graff, Douglas
P. Green, Virginia M. Green, Barbara
Gregorius, Ellen P. Gregorius, Gregory Mi-
chael Griesbach, Lynn Ellen Griesbach, Rob-
ert J. Griesbach, Richard M. Grossman.
James R. Gruentzel, Mary Jo Guckenberg,
Kay Gutschow, Guy Guyon, Peter James
Hahn, Sharon Hando, Steven A. Hardy, Rich-
ard G. Hayes, Dennis Heigl, Gary F.
Heimerman, Edith Hein, Ellen Mary
Heinemann, Marie C. Heinritz, Micheline R.
Heinritz, Joan Heiss, Dianne Mary Herwig,
Victoria Hildebrandt, Angela May Hughes,
Thomas O. Hurley, Suzette Ann Hurst, Arthur
F. Jaehnke, Cynthia Ann Jandourek, Mark
Douglas Jankowski, Judith Mae Jansen, Mary
Dianne Janssen, Veronica Mary Jentz, Mary
Lou Jochman, Shirley Ann Jochman, Charles
M. Johnson, Garry C. Kausch, Robert L. Kel-
ler, Cynthia Doris Kells, Rosemary Frances
Kemkes, Nancy Marie Kennedy, Ralph
Charles Kessler, Karen Kay Kester, Carol
Kettenhoven, William R. Kettenhofen, Law-
rence Keuler, Katherine Jane Kewley, Robert
C. Klemp, Curtis J. Knight, Patricia Knight,
Robert W. Knoll, Louise Ann Koll, Richard Eu-
gene Koller, Kathryn Kolosso, Frederick
Kranzusch, Sandra J. Kraus, Jane Krejcha,
Jeffrey George Krueger, Carol A. Krupka,
Mary Jo Kurth, Karla G. Kwitek, Kevin K. Lally,
Charles Joseph Lang, Daniel John Laux,
Charles Joseph LaViolette, John Edward Le
Capitaine, Timothy H. Leopold, Debra Liethen,
Eugene F. Lillge, Ann Loerke, Kathryn Ann
Lorenz, James Losselyong, Catherine Lund,
Mary Ann Luedeke, Deborah Susan Lux,
Charles E. Maass, Mark R. Malchow, Philip
John Mannebach, Elizabeth Martin, Francesca
Jean Martin, Michael A. Marx, Mary Lynn
Mauthe, Robert R. McCann, Margaret Mary
Catherine McCanna, Margery W. McClenahan,
Christopher B. McDermott, Richard M.
McKenny, Elizabeth L. Meiers, Stephen C.
Mendleski, Lynn Mary Motelewski, Cheryl
Mueller, Michael James Murphy, Michael John
Murphy, Patrice Michelle Murphy, Thomas L.
Neilitz, Richard E. Neubauer, Richard E. Noe,
Stephen C. Noffke, Margaret K. Nyman, Pam-
ela Ann O’Leary, John Paltzer, Michael Rich-
ard Pankratz, Carol Ann Pastorelli, Stephen
Mark Patenaude, Denise Paulie, James P.
Peerenboom.
Jay F. Peerenboom, Mary Pendergast,
Kathleen Ann Peterson, Jean Pfankuch, Wil-
liam Richard Pfefferle, Mary Melanie Piette,
Larry J. Plamann, Mary Therese Ponschock,
Thomas Putzer, Kathleen Quigley, Mary Lou-
ise Rathsack, Jenny Rechner, Barbara Reis,
John M. Resch, Judy K. Rieden, Mary T. Rob-
erts, David Joseph Roche, Stephen L. Roder,
Paul M. Rubsani, Peter A. Rubsam, Christine
Ruppel, Michael Samsa, Donald J. Schaefer,
Robert Norton Schmieder, Mary Theresa
Schuldes, Jean Ann Schumacher, Joseph
Schwaller, Patricia Ann Schweitzer, Chris-
topher L. Seghers, Mark Sherman, Ronald
Shilt, Barbara J. Smith, Marsha Mary Snow,
Joan Marie Sommers, Ann Marie Springer,
Kathleen B. Springer, Margaret Ann Stack,
Thomas J. Stadler, Sally Joan Stevens, Wil-
liam George Michael Stoeger, Roger Ray-
mond Stoffel, Debra A. Streck, Elizabeth J.
Strutz, Robert John Sturm, Carey Sullivan, Pa-
tricia Ann Sullivan, Rodger J. Suprise, Robert
Tews, Mary F. Theabo, Jeffrey Theisen, Mary
Jill Thiel, Charles A. Thompson, Thomas Lee
Thomson, Joan Marie Tillman, Susan C.
Tomazevic, Marjorie H. Ulman, Anthony J.
Utschig, Nancy D. Vandenberg, Thomas E.
Vandenberg, Thomas Vanden Elsen, Vickie E.
Vanderpool, Victoria G. Van Dinter, Gary G.
Van Eperen, Michael E. Van Groll, Christine
Ann Van Handel, Michael N. Van Handel,
Richard Van Handel, Pamela J. Van Rooy,
Mark Van Ryzin, Mary K. Van Sistine, Frieda
Ann Van Sleuwen, Marsha Claire Voissem,
Michael Louis Voster, Kenneth P. Wagner,
Mary Pat Wallace, Daniel I. Waller, Gail Mary
Warne, Gary L. Wassmann, Carl J. Weber,
Wayne Weckwerth, Dianne Marie Weggel,
Susan Mary Weiland, Linda K. Weiss, Jane E.
Welhouse, Charlene Ann Werner, Roger E.
West, Joseph R. Wettengel, Thomas Whalen,
Ellen J. White, Paul Whitehead, Lawrence Wil-
son, John F. Witmer, Mary Rae Witter, Judith
A. Wolfe, Lisa Ann Young, Gregory T. Zak,
Mary Lee Zwicker.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to congratu-
late the Class of 1969 in celebrating their
golden reunion. I wish them the best during
this time of joy in seeing old friends and re-
membering good times.
RECOGNIZING THE EIGHTH AN-
NUAL COCOA BEACH ‘‘FOOT-
PRINTS IN THE SAND’’ KIDNEY
WALK AND THOSE WHO HAVE
GIVEN THE PRECIOUS GIFT OF
LIFE
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, on Saturday,
May 11, 2019, thousands of residents from
across Central Florida will gather at the Cocoa
Beach Pier in Cocoa Beach, Florida, to take
part in the Eighth Annual ‘‘Footprints in the
Sand’’ Cocoa Beach Kidney Walk. Katie and I
have joined others in our community in partici-
pating every year since the first walk was or-
ganized in 2012 by Rich Salick, Bill Hahn and
volunteers with the Florida Affiliate of the Na-
tional Kidney Foundation.
The ‘‘Footprints in the Sand’’ Kidney Walk
brings our community together to show our
love and concern. So many of us have family,
friends and loved ones that are afflicted by
kidney disease and they need our strength
and support. The road ahead is not easy for
them, but as the kidney walk demonstrates,
they do not have to travel that path alone.
The National Kidney Foundation of Florida,
its supporters and activists have made a sig-
nificant difference in people’s lives. They not
only raise awareness about this disease but
they have helped push for much needed
changes in our laws and new innovations to
give patients more treatment options and a
better quality of life.
This year organizers of the kidney walk will
recognize organ donors and their families for
giving the precious gift of life so that others
could receive a second chance and continue
with their lives.
Those recognized include:
Ellen Tuech on behalf of Geoffrey Wasden,
Donna Oakley on behalf of James ‘‘Jimmy’’
Gregory Fisher, Dawn Futch on behalf of Mi-
chael-Gene Futch, Diana Couch on behalf of
Linda Couch, Billie Lomonaco on behalf of Tif-
fany Accardi, Jasmine Persaud on behalf of
Anand Persaud, Sherri Wilson on behalf of
William Garrett Coe, Pat Brown on behalf of
Michael Brown, Laila Merolle on behalf of
Mario Merolle, Maria Isabel Almonte on behalf
of Xavier Emilio Lara Almonte, Josefina
Merizalde on behalf of Emily Baquerizo, Laura
Dawkins on behalf of Brooke Dawkins, Mary
Carpenter on behalf of Shawn Carpenter, Pa-
tricia Rivera on behalf of Sebastian Rivera,
Donna Kinney on behalf of Matthew David
Hartmann, Shebna Dorsey on behalf of An-
drew Dorsey, Deborah Harder Thorpe on be-
half of Jessica Harder, Vivian Pogeler on be-
half of Scott Pogeler, and Susan Hahn and
Teresa Jamison-Hahn on behalf of Bill Hahn.
I ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of
Representatives to join me in recognizing the
strong will of these caring families, their loved
ones and all those who have joined the effort
and worked tirelessly to raise awareness
about kidney disease.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.019 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E552 May 7, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF ZAMERON
BOOZER WINNING THE 1A BOYS
STATE CHAMPIONSHIP IN THE
HIGH JUMP
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize Zameron Boozer for win-
ning the Alabama 1A Boys State Champion-
ship in the high Jump.
Zameron is a junior at Lanett High School in
Lanett, Alabama. On Friday, May 3, 2019, in
Cullman, Alabama at the state meet, he se-
cured the 1A boys state championship in the
high jump with a leap of 6–6. It was his per-
sonal best.
Zameron just started track and field last
year. He also plays basketball and hopes to
continue playing in college.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing and congratulating Zameron on this
achievement.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE GREENVIEW
CHRISTIAN CHURCH
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize the Greenview Christian Church
of Greenview, Illinois, for celebrating their
150th anniversary.
In 1869, the Greenview Christian Church
was officially opened as a place of worship for
the residents of the city. Since then, the
church has grown immensely; it now provides
the community with far more than a place to
pray. This is where the residents of Greenview
come to make strides towards improving their
local area, as well as to help those less fortu-
nate than themselves abroad, through their
partner missionary program, Faith Promise
Rally.
The Greenview Christian Church is known
throughout the area for the services that it has
provided for the community over the last 150
years. Today, we celebrate the church for their
dedication to serving Greenview. I extend my
sincere congratulations to the Greenview
Christian Church for a successful 150 years,
and I wish them even more success going for-
ward.
f
HONORING SNOOPY’S HOME ICE’S
50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today with Congressman
JARED HUFFMAN to honor Snoopy’s Home Ice
on its 50th anniversary.
Snoopy’s Home Ice, also known as the
Redwood Empire Ice Arena, opened on Mon-
day, April 28th in 1969. Snoopy’s was built
and owned by Charles M. Schulz, creator of
the Peanuts comic strip. Snoopy’s is the only
permanent ice rink between Oakland and the
Oregon border serving California coastal com-
munities. The 33,500-foot facility welcomes
over 110,000 skaters a year and has been a
venue for ice skating performances, skating
lessons, hockey games, tennis matches, and
concerts. The Santa Rosa Figure Skating
Club, Santa Rosa Junior Hockey Club,
Snoopy’s Adult Hockey League, and the Santa
Rosa Junior College hockey team all call
Snoopy’s Home Ice their home.
Snoopy’s Home Ice is the home of the
Snoopy’s Senior World Hockey Tournament,
which was started in 1975 by Mr. Schulz. The
annual event draws over 50 teams of players
aged 40 to 96 from all over the world to play
more than 100 games. Teams have traveled
from numerous countries, including those as
far away as Japan, Austria, and Australia.
Snoopy’s Senior World Hockey Tournament
has brought in an estimated $5.8 million per
summer to Sonoma County. The arena also
hosted holiday ice shows from 1986 until
2003. The shows had elaborate choreography
performed by many well-known and respected
skaters.
Madam Speaker, Snoopy’s Home Ice has
not only been a recreational facility for the last
fifty years, it has been a place for our commu-
nity to gather, children to celebrate birthdays,
families to celebrate holidays, and the site of
numerous sporting events. It is therefore fitting
and proper that we honor its 50th anniversary
here today.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE BUILDING
UNITED STATES INFRASTRUC-
TURE AND LEVERAGING DEVEL-
OPMENT (BUILD) ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I introduced the Building United States Infra-
structure and Leveraging Development
(BUILD) Act. This bipartisan legislation will
spur billions of dollars private investment in
surface transportation and freight transfer fa-
cilities, while giving state and local govern-
ments an important instrument to improve their
communities.
Across all sectors of infrastructure, the
United States faces a $2 trillion gap between
projected needs and projected funding. The
sector with the largest gap is surface transpor-
tation, where the United States is projected to
underfund our roads, bridges, and transit sys-
tems by $1.1 trillion by 2025. This is unaccept-
able. Americans are already paying for the
cost of inaction through increased traffic,
worse health outcomes, damage due to rough
road conditions, and higher prices for house-
hold goods. Congress needs to use every tool
at its disposal to deliver a better transportation
system for the American people.
This legislation builds on the success of sur-
face transportation private activity bonds by in-
creasing the federal volume cap by $5.8 billion
while clarifying that the use of the bonds must
maintain robust labor protections. While pub-
lic-private partnerships are not a panacea for
solving all of our transportation challenges,
they are an important piece of rebuilding and
renewing America. I look forward to working
with my colleagues in the House and Senate
to enact this legislation as part of an infra-
structure investment bill.
f
RECOGNIZING THE DEDICATED
SERVICE OF DR. WILLIAM BOWEN
HON. MATT GAETZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize Dr. William Bowen, professor of po-
litical science at Pensacola Christian College,
for his twenty-six years of exemplary service
and investment in Northwest Florida.
Dr. Bowen began his service at Pensacola
Christian College in 1992 when he ap-
proached the founder and president, Dr. Hor-
ton, about the possibility of establishing a po-
litical science program at the College. At this
time, the College only offered a political
science minor.
In 1993, Dr. Bowen officially joined the fac-
ulty of Pensacola Christian College and began
establishing the curriculum for the foundational
courses in PCC’s political science concentra-
tion. By the fall of 2004, the political science
concentration was officially offered under Dr.
Bowen’s guidance and expertise.
Dr. Bowen singlehandedly developed the
entire political science program at Pensacola
Christian College. He has been responsible for
the curriculum development and teaching of
every political science elective offered at the
College; moreover, he has also developed two
graduate-level courses for PCC’s Master of
Science in Curriculum and Instruction with a
History specialization.
Dr. Bowen’s biblical worldview, under-
standing of America’s founding, and keen
awareness of political trends have helped to
shape one of the most successful programs in
the Humanities Department of Pensacola
Christian College. His faithful service and
unrivaled scholarship have earned him a place
among the College’s most distinguished fac-
ulty members.
Dr. Bowen’s wisdom and insight have been
an inspiration and guide for all his students,
many of whom have become influential lead-
ers in Northwest Florida and across America.
Some of Dr. Bowen’s students have attained
the heights of American leadership, becoming
influential leaders in Washington, D.C.
Dr. Bowen’s commitment to excellence in in-
struction has challenged his students to reach
new heights of scholastic achievement. His
exemplary scholarship has made him an in-
valuable instructor in both national and state
issues. Dr. Bowen has a profound influence
on the lives of each of the students he in-
structs.
The strength of America lies in the edu-
cation of its future leaders, and it is an honor
for me to have exceptional professors in our
district such as Dr. William Bowen who are
faithfully training future American leaders that
will one day shape the destiny of our great
country.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United
States Congress, I am privileged to congratu-
late Dr. William Bowen for his twenty-six years
of service and the exemplary legacy he leaves
for the future leaders of America.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.021 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E553
May 7, 2019
RECOGNITION OF MR. COLIN GAR-
RISON’S SPECIAL OLYMPIC
WORLD GAMES TITLES
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate Mr. Colin Garrison’s three
Olympic victories at the 2019 Special Olympic
World Games. The achievement of such a dis-
tinguished title takes profound dedication and
practice on the part of both the athlete, coach-
es, and the community. The immense accom-
plishments of individuals like Mr. Garrison
make me proud to represent the Fifth Con-
gressional District of Missouri in the United
States Congress.
Out of the 216 athletes competing in the
2019 World Games, Mr. Garrison was one of
two participants representing the state of Mis-
souri. Having participated alongside countless
talented athletes in Missouri for many years,
Mr. Garrison was honored to earn a trip as a
top contestant.
Mr. Garrison’s awards in bocce ball, both
silver and gold, at the 2019 Special Olympic
World Games in Abu Dhabi are the culmina-
tion of years of hard work. Garrison overcame
what might be perceived by others as obsta-
cles in his life and turned them into blessings
and triumphs. For the last 13 years, Colin has
taken part in the Missouri Special Olympics,
taking home titles in a variety of athletic cat-
egories. Furthermore, he has competed at the
USA Games numerous times, including the
2010 and 2018 USA Games. Not limited to
bocce ball, Colin competed in multiple sports
such as basketball, softball, bowling, flag foot-
ball, soccer, and more. Garrison says that he
is not done competing and plans to continue
training for future events. He hopes to once
more join the American team at the 2023 Spe-
cial Olympic World Games in Berlin.
Through these athletic games and tour-
naments, Colin Garrison has traveled across
the nation from Lincoln, Nebraska to Seattle,
Washington, and now, he has expanded glob-
ally. Mr. Garrison enjoys visiting new cities
and attending professional sporting events;
however, his favorite part is meeting new peo-
ple at each series of events.
When Mr. Garrison is not competing, he is
a crucial and beloved member of his family
and his community. All those who know him
feel blessed to have him in their life. His posi-
tive outlook and perseverance are two of his
most defining traits. Working hard at two jobs,
he always makes time for the rigorous practice
schedule in a variety of sports. His coach and
father, Mike Garrison, has said that he could
not be prouder of his son and all that Colin
has accomplished through his hard work and
perseverance.
Madam Speaker, please join me and Mis-
souri’s Fifth Congressional District in cele-
brating the accomplishments of Mr. Colin Gar-
rison. I encourage my fellow citizens and con-
stituents to unite together under the same
spirit of positivity, resiliency, and determination
that Mr. Garrison has carried throughout his
long and prestigious career.
HONORING TECHNICAL SERGEANT
JUSTIN MARTZ
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to recognize the
distinguished service of Technical Sergeant
Justin Martz of Jonestown. After 26 years
serving Pennsylvania in the Army National
Guard and in the Air National Guard, TSgt.
Martz is retiring this June.
I have a profound admiration for those indi-
viduals who answer the call to serve and dedi-
cate themselves to both country and commu-
nity. TSgt. Martz’s service has earned him the
Army Service Ribbon, the Iraq Campaign
Medal, and multiple State Service ribbons.
Most important, however, TSgt. Martz has
earned the respect and admiration of his fel-
low guardsmen. His service has taken him
around Pennsylvania, across the country, and
to the furthest reaches of the globe, but no
matter what the mission, TSgt. Martz remains
an exemplary citizen and soldier.
TSgt. Martz, his wife, Heather, and their
family represent the very best in our Citizen
Soldiers. I ask that my colleagues join me in
thanking TSgt. Martz for his dedicated service
to the United States and his many contribu-
tions to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
We wish him the best as he enters this next
chapter in life.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 40TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE PRAIRIE CIT-
IES SOCCER LEAGUE
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize the Prairie Cities Soccer League
(PCSL) of Normal, Illinois, for the celebration
of their 40th anniversary.
In 1978, over a friendly cup of coffee, two
men developed an idea that would take youth
soccer in the Bloomington/Normal area to new
heights. Founders, Jack Fowler and Joe Miller
worked tirelessly to bring their dream of a fun
and safe environment for children to play soc-
cer in their community. Since then, the PCSL
has grown immensely. The League now pro-
vides the area with far more than a place to
play the great game of soccer. PCSL is also
where the Bloomington/Normal area youth
learn valuable skills, such as teamwork, tenac-
ity, and vision, that will benefit them for the
rest of their lives. As a Co-Chair of the Con-
gressional Soccer Caucus, I am incredibly
proud of everything that PCSL does for our
district.
The Prairie Cities Soccer League is known
throughout the area for the services that it has
provided for the community over the last 40
years. Today, we celebrate the league for their
dedication to serving Bloomington/Normal. I
extend my sincere congratulations to the Prai-
rie Cities Soccer League for a successful 40
years, and I wish them even more success
going forward.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF DR. C.O. GRINSTEAD AT
TRINITY BAPTIST MINISTRIES
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the 50th Anniversary of Dr.
C.O. Grinstead’s ministry at Trinity Baptist
Church of Oxford, Alabama.
June 23, 2019 will mark Dr. Grinstead’s
50th anniversary at Trinity Baptist Church. Dr.
Grinstead is a native of Gary, Indiana, and a
graduate of Tennessee Temple University in
Chattanooga, Tennessee. He met his wife,
Sherry, at a college fellowship in 1957, and
they were married June 4, 1960.
Dr. Grinstead came to Trinity in 1969 from
Jacksonville, Florida. He bought some radio
equipment and began a 15-minute daily radio
program of Trinity highlights on WHMA in De-
cember of 1969.
In the 1970s, Trinity began Trinity Christian
Academy, built the school and the gymnasium.
In 1975, Dr. Grinstead left to travel with Evan-
gelist Tom Williams and sent tithe back each
month. In 1978, he returned to Trinity and be-
came Associate Pastor with 100 percent vote
of the church.
In 1981, he became pastor of Trinity. In
1989, Dr. Grinstead received his Doctorate
from Florida Bible College and the next year,
he became moderator of the Southwide Bap-
tist Fellowship. In 1994, Truth Radio came on-
air and has been running in 24 counties in
East Central Alabama and a few counties in
West Georgia.
Dr. Grinstead has served as Chaplain of the
Calhoun County Republican Party, Oxford Po-
lice Department and Assistant Chaplain at
Calhoun County Jail.
He and Sherry were blessed with three chil-
dren and nine grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing this milestone for my good friend, Broth-
er Grinstead.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ALMA S. ADAMS
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I was absent
for the votes listed below due to a tragic
school shooting event in my district.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
Roll Call No. 172, YEA; Roll Call No. 173,
YEA; Roll Call No. 174, YEA; Roll Call No.
175, YEA; Roll Call No. 176, NO; Roll Call No.
177, NO; Roll Call No. 178, YEA; Roll Call No.
179, YEA; Roll Call No. 180, YEA; Roll Call
No. 181, YEA; Roll Call No. 182, YEA; Roll
Call No. 183, NO; and Roll Call No. 184, YEA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07MY8.026 E07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D493
Tuesday, May 7, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2657–S2705
Measures Introduced: Twenty-one bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1336–1356, and S. Res. 192–193. Pages S2687–88
Measures Passed:
Authorizing testimony and representation: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 192, to authorize testimony and
representation in State of Nevada v. Lacamera.
Pages S2700–01
Kids to Parks Day: Senate agreed to S. Res. 193,
designating May 18, 2019, as ‘‘Kids to Parks Day’’.
Page S2701
Commending the Government of Canada: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 96, commending the Government
of Canada for upholding the rule of law and express-
ing concern over actions by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China in response to a request
from the United States Government to the Govern-
ment of Canada for the extradition of a Huawei
Technologies Co., Ltd. executive. Page S2701
Appointments:
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope (Helsinki): The Chair, on behalf of the Vice
President, pursuant to Public Law 94–304, as
amended by Public Law 99–7, appointed the fol-
lowing Senators as members of the Commission on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki) dur-
ing the 116th Congress: Senators Cardin, White-
house, Udall, and Shaheen. Page S2700
Congressional-Executive Commission on the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China: The Chair, on behalf of the
President of the Senate, pursuant to Public Law
106–286, appointed the following Members to serve
on the Congressional-Executive Commission on the
People’s Republic of China: Senators Feinstein,
Merkley, Peters, and King. Page S2700
Bianco Nomination—Agreement: Senate contin-
ued consideration of the nomination of Joseph F.
Bianco, of New York, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit.
Pages S2660–68, S2688–76
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on
Wednesday, May 8, 2019. Page S2701
Reed Nomination—Cloture: By 82 yeas to 17 nays
(Vote No. EX. 96), Senate agreed to the motion to
close further debate on the nomination of Kimberly
A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be President of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States. Page S2677
Bachus Nomination—Cloture: By 74 yeas to 24
nays (Vote No. EX. 97), Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the nomination of Spencer
Bachus III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States. Page S2677
Pryor Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Judith DelZoppo
Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Export-Import Bank of the United
States. Pages S2678–79
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 79 yeas to 19 nays (Vote No. EX. 98), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S2677–78
Bianco, Reed, Bachus, and Pryor Nominations—
Agreement: A unanimous-consent agreement was
reached providing that at 10 a.m., on Wednesday,
May 8, 2019, Senate vote on confirmation of the
nominations of Joseph F. Bianco, Kimberly A. Reed,
Spencer Bachus III, and Judith DelZoppo Pryor in
the order listed. Page S2667
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S2658–59, S2684
Executive Communications: Pages S2684–87
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2688–90
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2690–99
Additional Statements: Pages S2682–84
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S2700
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—98) Pages S2677, S2677–78
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D494 May 7, 2019
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:41 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, May 8, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S2701.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: FBI
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies con-
cluded open and closed hearings to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
after receiving testimony from Christopher Wray,
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Depart-
ment of Justice.
APPROPRIATIONS: FCC AND FTC
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government concluded a
hearing to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Trade
Commission, after receiving testimony from Ajit Pai,
Chairman, Federal Communications Commission;
and Joseph J. Simons, Chairman, Federal Trade
Commission.
PRIVACY RIGHTS AND DATA COLLECTION
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine privacy
rights and data collection in a digital economy, after
receiving testimony from Peter H. Chase, German
Marshall Fund of the United States, Washington,
D.C.; Jay Cline, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Min-
neapolis, Minnesota; and Maciej Ceglowski,
Pinboard, Friendship, Maine.
AGENCIES EARLY PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Fed-
eral Management concluded a hearing to examine
agencies early public engagement and retrospective
review, after receiving testimony from Susan E. Dud-
ley, George Washington University Regulatory
Studies Center, Washington, D.C.; and Sally Katzen,
New York University School of Law, New York,
New York.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nominations of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Management, who
was introduced by Senator Boozman, and Michael
Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Administrator for
Federal Procurement Policy, who was introduced by
former Representative Tom Davis, after the nominees
testified and answered questions in their own behalf.
21ST CENTURY CURES ACT
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine imple-
menting the 21st Century Cures Act, focusing on
making electronic health information available to pa-
tients and providers, after receiving testimony from
Donald Rucker, National Coordinator for Health In-
formation Technology, Office of the National Coor-
dinator for Health IT, and Kate Goodrich, Director,
Center for Clinical Standards and Quality, and Chief
Medical Officer, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, both of the Department of Health and
Human Services.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND THE
PRICE OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine intellectual property and the
price of prescription drugs, focusing on balancing in-
novation and competition, after receiving testimony
from Joshua D. Baker, South Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services, Columbia; David E.
Mitchell, Patients for Affordable Drugs, and James
Stansel, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
of America, both of Washington, D.C.; Michael A.
Carrier, Rutgers Law School, Camden, New Jersey;
and David S. Olson, Boston College Law School,
Newton Centre, Massachusetts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D495
May 7, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 41 pub-
lic bills, H.R.2528–2568 and 4 resolutions, H. Res.
355–356 and 358–359 were introduced.
Pages H3473–75
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3476–78
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 357, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 986) to provide that certain guidance re-
lated to waivers for State innovation under the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act shall have
no force or effect, and providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 2157) making supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–51).
Pages H3462, H3473
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H3451
Recess: The House recessed at 12:26 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H3454
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H3454, H3462
Recess: The House recessed at 2:09 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H3455
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Taiwan Assurance Act of 2019: H.R. 2002, to
foster security in Taiwan; Pages H3455–57
Reaffirming the United States commitment to
Taiwan and to the implementation of the Taiwan
Relations Act: H. Res. 273, reaffirming the United
States commitment to Taiwan and to the implemen-
tation of the Taiwan Relations Act, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-
nay vote of 414 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll
No. 185; and Pages H3457–58, H3461
Championing American Business Through Di-
plomacy Act of 2019: H.R. 1704, to foster commer-
cial relations with foreign countries and support
United States economic and business interests abroad
in the conduct of foreign policy, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-
nay vote of 400 yeas to 16 nays, Roll No. 186.
Pages H3459–61, H3461–62
Recess: The House recessed at 4:29 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H3461
Senate Referral: S. 693 was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. Page H3472
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H3455.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H3461 and H3462. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:46 p.m.
Committee Meetings
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Department of the Interior.
Testimony was heard from David Bernhardt, Sec-
retary, Department of the Interior.
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019; PROTECTING AMERICANS WITH
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 2157, the ‘‘Supplemental Appropriations Act,
2019’’; and H.R. 986, the ‘‘Protecting Americans
with Preexisting Conditions Act of 2019’’. The
Committee granted, by record vote of 9–4, a rule
providing for consideration of H.R. 986, the ‘‘Pro-
tecting Americans with Preexisting Conditions Act
of 2019’’, and H.R. 2157, the ‘‘Supplemental Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’. Section 1 of the rule pro-
vides for consideration of 986, the ‘‘Protecting
Americans with Preexisting Conditions Act of
2019’’, under a structured rule. The rule provides
one hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the bill. The rule provides that the bill shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill. The rule makes
in order only those amendments printed in part A
the Rules Committee report accompanying the reso-
lution. Each such amendment may be offered only in
the order printed in the report, may be offered only
by a Member designated in the report, shall be con-
sidered as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D496 May 7, 2019
Part A of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. Section 2
of the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 2157,
the ‘‘Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019’’, under
a structured rule. The rule provides one hour of gen-
eral debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations. The rule waives all points
of order against consideration of the bill. The rule
provides that an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–12, modified by the amendment printed
in part B of the Rules Committee report, shall be
considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule provides that clause 2(e) of Rule XXI shall not
apply during consideration of the bill. The rule
makes in order only those further amendments print-
ed in part C of the Rules Committee report. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part C of the report. Finally, the rule provides one
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
Testimony was heard from Chairman Scott of Vir-
ginia, and Representatives Pallone, Griffith, King of
Iowa, Rodney Davis of Illinois, Dunn, Graves of
Louisiana, Radewagen, and Austin Scott of Georgia.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
MAY 8, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Financial
Services and General Government, to hold hearings to ex-
amine proposed budget estimates and justification for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Commodity Futures Trading Com-
mission and the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Time to be announced, SD–124.
Subcommittee on Department of Defense, to hold hear-
ings to examine proposed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense,
10 a.m., S–128, Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces, to hold hearings to examine the Department of
Energy’s atomic defense activities and programs in review
of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020,
2:30 p.m., SR–222.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine new entrants in the national
airspace, focusing on policy, technology, and security
issues for Congress, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold an
oversight hearing to examine the U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers’ Civil Works program, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine
Medicare physician payment reform after two years, focus-
ing on Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act
implementation and the road ahead, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 for the United States Agency for International De-
velopment, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Indian Affairs: to hold hearings to examine
the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 for Indian programs, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on Judiciary: Subcommittee on Border Secu-
rity and Immigration, to hold hearings to examine the
humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border,
2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
the Older Americans Act, focusing on protecting and
supporting seniors as they age, 2:30 p.m., SD–562.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Full Committee, markup on
the Report on the Suballocation of Budget Allocations for
FY 2020; and the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appro-
priations Bill, FY 2020, 10:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces, hearing entitled ‘‘FY20 Priorities for Missile De-
fense and Missile Defeat Programs’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 2480, the ‘‘Stronger Child Abuse Pre-
vention and Treatment Act’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and
Pensions, hearing entitled ‘‘The Protecting the Right to
Organize Act: Deterring Unfair Labor Practices’’, 2 p.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Ban
Asbestos Now: Taking Action to Save Lives and Liveli-
hoods’’, 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Commerce,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Federal Trade Com-
mission: Strengthening Protections for Americans’ Privacy
and Data Security’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Hous-
ing, Community Development and Insurance, hearing en-
titled ‘‘A Review of the State of and Barriers to Minority
Homeownership’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D497
May 7, 2019
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 1988, the ‘‘Protect
Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2409, the ‘‘Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job
Creators Act’’; H.R. 2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2514, the ‘‘Coordinating Oversight,
Upgrading and Innovating Technology, and Examiner
Reform Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2515, to amend the Securi-
ties and Exchange Act of 1934 to amend the definition
of whistleblower; legislation on the Insider Trading Pro-
hibition Act of 2019; legislation on the Task Force on
Financial Technology Resolution of 2019; and legislation
on Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Resolution of
2019, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Smart Competition: Adapting U.S. Strategy To-
ward China at 40 Years’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism, hearing entitled ‘‘Opportunities
and Challenges in U.S. Relations with the Gulf States’’,
1:30 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion, hearing entitled ‘‘China’s Growing Influence in Asia
and the United States’’, 2 p.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Confronting the Rise of Domestic Terrorism in
the Homeland’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Election Security’’, 2 p.m., 1310 Long-
worth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
Committee Report for Resolution Recommending that
the House of Representatives Find William P. Barr, At-
torney General, U.S. Department of Justice, in Contempt
of Congress for Refusal to Comply with a Subpoena Duly
Issued by the Committee on the Judiciary, 10 a.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing on H.R. 417, to amend
title 18, United States Code, to establish measures to
combat invasive lionfish, and for other purposes; H.R.
1023, the ‘‘Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1218, the ‘‘American Fisheries Advi-
sory Committee Act’’; H.R. 1240, the ‘‘Young Fisher-
men’s Development Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1314, the ‘‘Inte-
grated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act
Amendments of 2019’’; H.R. 1979, the ‘‘Driftnet Mod-
ernization and Bycatch Reduction Act’’; H.R. 2189, the
‘‘Digital Coast Act’’; H.R. 2405, the ‘‘National Sea Grant
College Program Amendments Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2406,
the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments Act of 2019’’,
10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 391, the ‘‘White House Ethics Trans-
parency Act’’; H.R. 2003, the ‘‘Ensuring Federal Employ-
ees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) Coverage During
Shutdowns Act’’; H.R. 2004, the ‘‘Ensuring Federal Em-
ployees Dental/Vision Program (FEDVIP) and Federal
Long Term Care Insurance Program (FLTCIP) Coverage
During Shutdowns Act’’; and a postal naming measure,
10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, hearing entitled
‘‘Veteran and Active-Duty Military Suicides’’, 2 p.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Research and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘A Review
of the National Science Foundation FY 2020 Budget Re-
quest’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Keeping Our Sights on Mars: A Review of NASA’s
Deep Space Exploration Programs and Lunar Proposal’’, 2
p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Honoring the Nation’s Small Business Heroes’’,
10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 2440, the ‘‘Full Utilization of
the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Act’’; H.R. 1984,
the ‘‘DISASTER Act’’; H.R. 2502, the ‘‘Transparency in
Federal Buildings Projects Act of 2019’’; and General
Services Administration Capital Investment and Leasing
Program Resolutions, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation, hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing Nothing:
Maritime Infrastructure Vulnerabilities in an Emerging
Arctic’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 299, the ‘‘Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 712, the ‘‘VA Medicinal Cannabis
Research Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2191, the ‘‘Veterans Can-
nabis Use for Safe Healing Act’’; H.R. 2385, to permit
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant pro-
gram to conduct cemetery research and produce edu-
cational materials for the Veterans Legacy Program; H.R.
1988, the ‘‘Protect Affordable Mortgages for Veterans
Act’’; H.R. 2372, the ‘‘Veterans’ Care Quality Trans-
parency Act’’; H.R. 2340, the ‘‘FIGHT Veteran Suicides
Act’’; H.R. 2359, the ‘‘Whole Veteran Act’’; H.R. 2333,
the ‘‘Support for Suicide Prevention Coordinators Act’’;
H.R. 1126, the ‘‘Honoring Veterans Families Act’’; H.R.
2045, the ‘‘VET OPP Act’’; H.R.1200, the ‘‘Veterans’
Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act’’; H.R.
1199, the ‘‘VA Website Accessibility Act’’; H.R. 95, the
‘‘Homeless Veteran Families Act’’; H.R. 2109, the
‘‘BRAVE Act’’; H.R. 2196, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour requirement for the
Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship program of the
Department of Veterans Affairs; H.R. 2326, the ‘‘Navy
SEAL Chief Petty Officer William Bill Mulder (Ret.)
Transition Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2398, the
‘‘Veteran House Act’’; H.R. 2399, the ‘‘Home for Our
Heroes Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1812, the ‘‘Vet Center Eligi-
bility Expansion Act’’; H.R. 1947, to exempt transfers of
funds from Federal agencies to the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs for nonprofit corporations established under
subchapter IV of chapter 73 of such title from certain
provisions of the Economy Act, 10 a.m., 1334 Long-
worth.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Paid Family and Medical Leave: Helping Work-
ers and Employers Succeed’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 National Secu-
rity Program Budget Request’’, 9:30 a.m., HVC–304.
This hearing is closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D498 May 7, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, May 8
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Joseph F. Bianco, of New
York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 10:00 a.m.
Following disposition of the Bianco nomination, Senate
will vote on confirmation of the nominations of Kimberly
A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be President of the Export-
Import Bank of the United States, Spencer Bachus III, of
Alabama, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Export-Import Bank of the United States, and Judith
DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board
of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United
States in the order listed.
Following disposition of the Pryor nomination, Senate
will vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomina-
tion of Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, May 8
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Adams, Alma S., N.C., E553
Bass, Karen, Calif., E545
Beyer, Donald S., Jr., Va., E547
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E545
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E549, E552
Budd, Ted, N.C., E548
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E548
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E546, E549
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E545
Cárdenas, Tony, Calif., E547
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E553
Collins, Doug, Ga., E549
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E549
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E549
Foster, Bill, Ill., E548
Gaetz, Matt, Fla., E552
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E550
Hagedorn, Jim, Minn., E548
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E546
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E548
Jordan, Jim, Ohio, E548
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E549, E552, E553
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E553
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E545, E547
Posey, Bill, Fla., E551
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E552, E553
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E550, E552
Tonko, Paul, N.Y., E550
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E547
Welch, Peter, Vt., E546
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E550
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 May 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D07MY9.REC D07MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
