Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H963
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2019 No. 13
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BEYER).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 22, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DONALD S.
BEYER, Jr. to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
NORTH LITTLE ROCK CHOIR TO
DUBLIN CHORAL FESTIVAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the choir from
Immaculate Conception Church and
School in North Little Rock, Arkansas,
for being invited to represent our State
at the inaugural Dublin Choral Fes-
tival in Ireland later this year.
More than 240 voices from around the
United States will sing together at the
festival, and Immaculate Conception is
the only group from our State of Ar-
kansas.
The group of 48 parishioners, ranging
in age from 10 to 87, is led by Music Di-
rector Steve Guilmet.
While there, the choir will travel to
Belfast, Northern Ireland, where they
will attend mass and perform during
the service. Along with their perform-
ances, the parishioners will be raising
money to support local hunger and
poverty programs, and the parish there
will host them.
I congratulate those parishioners on
their hard work, and I join all Arkan-
sans in wishing them the very best as
they represent our State in Ireland.
ARKANSAS CANOE CLUB TRASH REMOVAL TEAM
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the achieve-
ments of Cowper Chadbourn and the
Arkansas Canoe Club Black Ops Ad-
vanced Trash Removal team.
Cowper founded the black ops team
in 2014 to promote water quality and
clean up trash in the watersheds
throughout Arkansas.
Since the formation of the group,
they have retrieved two giant
dumpsters, portable toilets, refrig-
erators, washers, stoves, and countless
tires out of our State’s streams. In
total, over the past 2 years, they have
hauled out more than 2,400 tires and
124,000 pounds from Arkansas water-
ways.
Mr. Speaker, I extend a hand of grati-
tude to Mr. Chadbourn and the entire
Arkansas Canoe Club Black Ops Ad-
vanced Trash Removal team for their
worthwhile commitment to our envi-
ronment and our natural resources.
ASH HOSPITAL OF THE YEAR
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize North Little
Rock’s Arkansas Surgical Hospital for
being awarded the Physician Hospital
of the Year by the Physician Hospitals
of America.
This award recognizes a hospital with
a long and exceptional record of high-
quality community service and leader-
ship.
Arkansas Surgical Hospital was one
of only 19 hospitals in the United
States, and the only one in Arkansas,
to receive double five-star status from
the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare
Services, CMS, and obtained the high-
est rankings for both overall quality
and patient satisfaction.
The hospital opened in 2005 with 16
beds and 5 operating rooms, but quick-
ly outgrew its space. To meet increas-
ing demand for patient care, in 2006,
the hospital broke ground on expansion
that brought the facility to 51 beds and
9 operating rooms.
The facility continues to grow and
helps 15,000 patients on an annual
basis.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the dedicated
workers at the Arkansas Surgical Hos-
pital for their service and leadership in
patient-centered care in central Arkan-
sas.
ARKANSAS CHILDREN’S BEACON AWARD
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Pediatric
Intensive Care Unit at Little Rock’s
Arkansas Children’s Hospital. They
have received the silver-level Beacon
Award for Excellence by the American
Association of Critical-Care Nurses.
The Beacon Award for Excellence
recognizes unit caregivers who success-
fully improve patient outcomes and
demonstrate effective leadership and
communication. Arkansas Children’s
Hospital is the only hospital and unit
in the State to earn this recognition
and one of only 497 hospitals that cur-
rently hold the award.
Its history of excellence in patient
care dates back to its founding in 1912.
As a former director and supporter of
Arkansas Children’s Hospital, I con-
gratulate them on their 106-year legacy
of leadership in patient-centered care;
this recognition of the Beacon award;
and their unqualified, wonderful serv-
ice to the kids of Arkansas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.000 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H964 January 22, 2019
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Thank You, O Lord, for giving us an-
other day.
In Scripture, we read:
‘‘You shall not oppress a hired serv-
ant who is poor and needy . . . You
shall give him his wages . . . lest he
cry against you to the Lord. . . .’’ And
then, ‘‘now to the one who works, his
wages are not counted as a gift, but as
his due.’’
May Your spirit, O Lord, impel those
who are empowered to do so, to bring
resolution to the current shutdown.
In such a contentious time, may hu-
mility be manifest in the exchange of
opposing positions, that all might find
relief, and those charged with serving
to secure our safe travel, and our bor-
ders, can be properly compensated in a
timely fashion.
Lord, have mercy on us.
May everything we do be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I ob-
ject to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCARTHY) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. MCCARTHY led the Pledge of Al-
legiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 18, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
January 18, 2019, at 12:59 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 259.
That the Senate agreed to Relative to the
death of Richard Arvin Overton S. Res. 10.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 3 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 4 p.m.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 22, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
January 22, 2019, at 2:23 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 430.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION’S
FEDERAL CHARTER AMEND-
MENTS ACT
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 439) to amend the
charter of the Future Farmers of
America, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 439
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
FFA Organization’s Federal Charter Amend-
ments Act’’.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION.
Section 70901 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’.
SEC. 3. PURPOSES OF THE CORPORATION.
Section 70902 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as paragraphs (7) and (8), respectively;
(3) by striking paragraphs (3), (4), (6), and
(7);
(4) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (11);
(5) by redesignating paragraphs (8) and (9)
as paragraphs (12) and (13), respectively;
(6) by inserting before paragraph (7), as re-
designated by paragraph (2), the following:
‘‘(1) to be an integral component of in-
struction in agricultural education, includ-
ing instruction relating to agriculture, food,
and natural resources;
‘‘(2) to advance comprehensive agricultural
education in the United States, including in
public schools, by supporting contextual
classroom and laboratory instruction and
work-based experiential learning;
‘‘(3) to prepare students for successful
entry into productive careers in fields relat-
ing to agriculture, food, and natural re-
sources, including by connecting students to
relevant postsecondary educational path-
ways and focusing on the complete delivery
of classroom and laboratory instruction,
work-based experiential learning, and leader-
ship development;
‘‘(4) to be a resource and support organiza-
tion that does not select, control, or super-
vise State association, local chapter, or indi-
vidual member activities;
‘‘(5) to develop educational materials, pro-
grams, services, and events as a service to
State and local agricultural education agen-
cies;
‘‘(6) to seek and promote inclusion and di-
versity in its membership, leadership, and
staff to reflect the belief of the FFA in the
value of all human beings;’’;
(7) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘composed of students and
former students of vocational agriculture in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.003 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H965
January 22, 2019
public schools qualifying for Federal reim-
bursement under the Smith-Hughes Voca-
tional Education Act (20 U.S.C. 11–15, 16–28’’;
and
(B) by inserting ‘‘as such chapters and as-
sociations carry out agricultural education
programs that are approved by States, terri-
tories, or possessions’’ after ‘‘United
States’’;
(8) in paragraph (8), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘to develop’’ and inserting
‘‘to build’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘train for useful citizen-
ship, and foster patriotism, and thereby’’ and
inserting ‘‘and’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘aggressive rural and’’ and
inserting ‘‘assertive’’;
(9) by inserting after paragraph (8), as re-
designated by paragraph (2), the following:
‘‘(9) to increase awareness of the global and
technological importance of agriculture,
food, and natural resources, and the way ag-
riculture contributes to our well-being;
‘‘(10) to promote the intelligent choice and
establishment of a career in fields relating
to agriculture, food, and natural resources;’’;
(10) in paragraph (11), as redesignated by
paragraph (4)—
(A) by striking ‘‘to procure for and dis-
tribute to State’’ and inserting ‘‘to make
available to State’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘, programs, services,’’ be-
fore ‘‘and equipment’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’;
(11) in paragraph (12), as redesignated by
paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘State boards for
vocational’’ and inserting ‘‘State boards and
officials for career and technical’’; and
(12) in paragraph (13), as redesignated by
paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and
inserting ‘‘FFA’’.
SEC. 4. MEMBERSHIP.
Section 70903(a) of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘as provided in the bylaws’’
and inserting ‘‘as provided in the constitu-
tion or bylaws of the FFA’’.
SEC. 5. GOVERNING BODY.
Section 70904 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’ each place the
term appears;
(B) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and
inserting the following:
‘‘(2) The board—
‘‘(A) shall consist of—
‘‘(i) the Secretary of Education, or the Sec-
retary of Education’s designee who has expe-
rience in agricultural education, the FFA, or
career and technical education; and
‘‘(ii) other individuals—
‘‘(I) representing the fields of education,
agriculture, food, and natural resources; or
‘‘(II) with experience working closely with
the FFA; and
‘‘(B) shall not include any individual who
is a current employee of the National FFA
Organization.
‘‘(3) The number of directors, terms of of-
fice of the directors, and the method of se-
lecting the directors, are as provided in the
constitution or bylaws of the FFA.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (4)—
(i) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘by-
laws’’ and inserting ‘‘constitution or bylaws
of the FFA’’; and
(ii) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘chairman’’ and inserting ‘‘chair’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) OFFICERS.—The officers of the FFA,
the terms of officers, and the election of offi-
cers, are as provided in the constitution or
bylaws of the FFA, except that such officers
shall include—
‘‘(1) a national advisor;
‘‘(2) an executive secretary; and
‘‘(3) a treasurer.
‘‘(c) GOVERNING COMMITTEE.—
‘‘(1) The board may designate a governing
committee. The terms and method of select-
ing the governing committee members are as
provided in the constitution or bylaws of the
FFA, except that all members of the gov-
erning committee shall be members of the
board of directors and at all times the gov-
erning committee shall be comprised of not
less than 3 individuals.
‘‘(2) When the board is not in session, the
governing committee has the powers of the
board subject to the board’s direction and
may authorize the seal of the FFA to be af-
fixed to all papers that require it.
‘‘(3) The board shall designate to such com-
mittee—
‘‘(A) the chair of the board;
‘‘(B) the executive secretary of the board;
and
‘‘(C) the treasurer of the board.’’.
SEC. 6. NATIONAL STUDENT OFFICERS.
Section 70905 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) COMPOSITION.—There shall be not less
than 6 national student officers of the FFA,
including a student president, 4 student vice
presidents (each representing regions as pro-
vided in the constitution or bylaws of the
corporation), and a student secretary.’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b);
(3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d)
as subsections (b) and (c), respectively; and
(4) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘, except that’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘(20 U.S.C. 11–15, 16–28)’’.
SEC. 7. POWERS.
Section 70906 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘cor-
porate’’;
(3) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’;
(4) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’;
(5) by amending paragraph (8) to read as
follows:
‘‘(8) use FFA funds to give prizes, awards,
loans, and grants to deserving members,
local FFA chapters, and State FFA associa-
tions to carry out the purposes of the FFA;’’;
(6) by amending paragraph (9) to read as
follows:
‘‘(9) produce publications, websites, and
other media;’’;
(7) in paragraph (10)—
(A) by striking ‘‘procure for and distribute
to State’’ and inserting ‘‘make available to
State’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Future Farmers of Amer-
ica’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’; and
(8) in paragraph (12), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’.
SEC. 8. NAME, SEALS, EMBLEMS, AND BADGES.
Section 70907 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’ each place the term appears;
(2) by striking ‘‘name’’ and inserting
‘‘names’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘ ‘Future Farmers of Amer-
ica’ ’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘Future Farmers of
America’ and ‘National FFA Organiza-
tion,’ ’’; and
(4) by inserting ‘‘education’’ before ‘‘mem-
bership’’.
SEC. 9. RESTRICTIONS.
Section 70908 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion or a director, officer, or member as
such’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA or a director, offi-
cer, or member acting on behalf of the FFA’’;
(3) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’ each place the
term appears; and
(4) in subsection (d), in the first sentence,
by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’.
SEC. 10. RELATIONSHIP TO FEDERAL AGENCIES.
Section 70909 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 70909. RELATIONSHIP TO FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On request of the board
of directors, the FFA may collaborate with
Federal agencies, including the Department
of Education and the Department of Agri-
culture on matters of mutual interest and
benefit.
‘‘(b) AGENCY ASSISTANCE.—Those Federal
agencies may make personnel, services, and
facilities available to administer or assist in
the administration of the activities of the
FFA.
‘‘(c) AGENCY COMPENSATION.—Personnel of
the Federal agencies may not receive com-
pensation from the FFA for their services,
except that travel and other legitimate ex-
penses as defined by the Federal agencies
and approved by the board may be paid.
‘‘(d) COOPERATION WITH STATE BOARDS.—
The Federal agencies also may cooperate
with State boards and other organizations
for career and technical education to assist
in the promotion of activities of the FFA.’’.
SEC. 11. HEADQUARTERS AND PRINCIPAL OF-
FICE.
Section 70910 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘of the cor-
poration shall be in the District of Columbia.
However, the activities of the corporation
are not confined to the District of Columbia
but’’ and inserting ‘‘of the FFA shall be as
provided in the constitution or bylaws of the
FFA. The activities of the FFA’’.
SEC. 12. RECORDS AND INSPECTION.
Section 70911 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘FFA’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘entitled
to vote’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘corpora-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘FFA’’.
SEC. 13. SERVICE OF PROCESS.
Section 70912 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA’’
and inserting ‘‘IN GENERAL’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘FFA’’ each place the term appears;
(C) by striking ‘‘in the District of Colum-
bia’’ before ‘‘to receive’’; and
(D) by striking ‘‘Designation of the agent
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the
United States District Court for the District
of Columbia’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘FFA’’ each place the term appears; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘of the FFA’’ after ‘‘asso-
ciation or chapter’’.
SEC. 14. LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICERS OR
AGENTS.
Section 70913 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘corporation’’
and inserting ‘‘FFA’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.004 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H966 January 22, 2019
SEC. 15. DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS IN DISSOLU-
TION OR FINAL LIQUIDATION.
Section 70914 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘corporation’’ and inserting
‘‘FFA’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘vocational agriculture’’
and inserting ‘‘agricultural education’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 439, a bipartisan bill to update
and modernize the Federal charter of
the National FFA Organization.
The FFA, formally known as the Fu-
ture Farmers of America, is a dynamic
youth organization that uses agricul-
tural education and leadership training
to promote the personal growth and ca-
reer successes of its members. With
chapters in every State of the Union,
its members are the country’s future
chemists, veterinarians, government
officials, entrepreneurs, bankers, inter-
national business leaders, teachers, and
other professionals across a wide array
of career fields.
The bill simply updates the FFA’s
charter to make it more consistent
with the modern organization and to
provide additional flexibility as it
looks toward the future.
Among other things, the bill recog-
nizes changes to the organization’s
name. It modifies the organization’s
purpose to better reflect trends in edu-
cation and leadership training. It al-
lows the FFA to publish materials in
electronic form rather than in printed
form and provides flexibility as to the
location of the FFA’s headquarters.
These are important changes to the
existing charter that will help the FFA
better carry out its mission for years
to come. I urge my colleagues to join
me in voting for H.R. 439.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 439,
the National FFA Organization’s Fed-
eral Charter Amendments Act.
The Future Farmers of America was
founded in 1928 to advance agricultural
education and improve the quality of
life of farming families across the
country.
At the first National FFA Conven-
tion in Kansas City, there were 33 dele-
gates from 18 States. At the convention
in 1929, 33 States were represented, and
FFA had swelled to over 30,000 mem-
bers nationwide. By 1939, FFA had be-
come so large, it required a national
headquarters, so it purchased part of
George Washington’s estate in Alexan-
dria, Virginia, and began construction.
During World War II, more than
138,000 FFA members were serving in
the armed services. In 1949, the FFA in-
troduced its first international ex-
change program with the Young Farm-
ers Club of Great Britain.
In 1950, Harry Truman signed a bill to
grant the FFA a Federal charter, di-
recting that a Department of Edu-
cation staff member be the national
FFA adviser. In 1959, President Truman
became the first of a long line of Presi-
dents to speak at the FFA National
Convention.
In 1969, the FFA created the Wash-
ington Leadership Conference to help
students become more engaged citizens
and to make a difference in their com-
munities.
Following Hurricane Katrina, the Na-
tional FFA launched Seeds of Hope to
help rebuild the Gulf Coast agricul-
tural programs. This effort, combined
with the National FFA Foundation,
raised over $10 million for FFA’s pro-
grams and services.
Since its creation, FFA has grown to
include more than 600,000 members
across the country. It has built rela-
tionships with agricultural organiza-
tions around the world.
Under FFA, students between the
ages of 12 and 21 can be enrolled in a
systematic course of instruction in ag-
ricultural education.
Beyond the FFA’s rich national his-
tory, it has held a special place in my
home State of Georgia for decades.
Georgia has the third largest State as-
sociation, with more than 42,000 mem-
bers. There are more than 342 chapters
and more than 475 agricultural edu-
cation teachers in the State.
Georgia’s FFA has also expanded its
scholarship awards to help students ac-
cess these agricultural education pro-
grams and reward the hard work of stu-
dents. The Georgia FFA Association
has worked to improve career opportu-
nities of its members through partner-
ship programs with businesses, edu-
cators, and legislators.
Today’s legislation makes the nec-
essary amendments to the National
FFA Organization’s charter to allow
for student officer vice presidents, to
reflect the regional diversity of the
United States. It also provides flexi-
bility for national officers to reduce
delays caused by vacant seats on the
national board.
These amendments will ensure the
FFA’s purpose matches the innovative
and hands-on approach that many agri-
culture educations are implementing
across the country.
I would like to thank Representative
JAMES LANGEVIN and Representative
GLENN THOMPSON for their work on this
legislation and for their support of
FFA and agricultural learning.
Mr. Speaker, I would also be remiss if
I did not say that FFA is an organiza-
tion that, when you see the blue jack-
ets on, especially from my part of the
world, it is something that also teaches
young people leadership and vocal
skills. It also is very special to my
heart.
Mr. Sutton was the agricultural and
FFA adviser in North Hall High School
when my daughter attended. My
daughter, as many of you know, has
spina bifida, and many of her rec-
reational activities and others were
limited. She got into agriculture and
joined the FFA. She got into their
speaker’s program, and she would actu-
ally participate in the extemporaneous
speaker’s program.
I watched this young lady take an
FFA experience; I watched Mr. Sutton,
a man of integrity and character who
led the blue jackets in North Hall High
School. When she would go, when they
couldn’t get access to a handicap bus,
he would actually physically pick her
wheelchair up and take her onto the
bus himself.
As a dad and as a Congressman, the
blue jackets mean a lot; and when you
see them coming, you know that there
is good work being done. I could not be
more proud to stand here today to ask
for support for this legislation, for this
charter to be renewed, for when we see
agriculture in our economy, which is
the most dominant industry we have,
we know FFA stands behind it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, at this time, it is my privilege to
yield as much time as he may consume
to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. THOMPSON).
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for
yielding.
I share the chairman’s passion for
FFA and in the leadership that
emerges from that experience for our
youth. And I know that, being someone
who represents a very rural district, we
think of the FFA as a rural enterprise;
but, Mr. Speaker, the largest FFA
chapter we have in Pennsylvania—and
we have a lot—it is a robust program in
the city of Philadelphia. This is a pro-
gram that has tremendous impact in
rural America and has tremendous
ability to impact in urban America
today.
So I rise in support of H.R. 439, the
National FFA Organization’s Federal
Charter Amendments Act. I am hon-
ored to work with my good friend, Mr.
LANGEVIN, on this piece of legislation.
This bipartisan bill makes updates to
allow the national FFA to be a self-
governing organization, while main-
taining its long-held relationship with
the U.S. Department of Education.
FFA, formally called the Future
Farmers of America, was organized in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.004 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H967
January 22, 2019
1928. Congress recognized the impor-
tance of FFA as an integral part of vo-
cational agriculture, and in 1950 grant-
ed it a Federal charter.
This charter provides Federal author-
ity to create an interagency working
agreement that is focused on strength-
ening FFA and school-based agri-
culture education.
However, the role of education in se-
curing a skilled, sustainable workforce
in agriculture is underscored through
the required involvement of the U.S.
Department of Education on the Na-
tional FFA board of directors.
It is important to note that only
about 100 organizations have charters
with Federal agencies. Only six organi-
zations require the respective govern-
ment agencies to select one member
for their board of directors. FFA is the
only organization that requires a ma-
jority of its board of directors be cho-
sen by its partner government agency.
Mr. Speaker, while we can all appre-
ciate the integrated relationship be-
tween the Department of Education
and the FFA, it must be our preroga-
tive to determine the best path forward
for both this Federal charter and the
students it serves.
FFA functions through a network of
local chapters that may be chartered in
any public school with an agricultural
education program.
Local chapters are run with student
leadership. Students are elected each
year by the chapter’s members, with
the agriculture teacher serving as ad-
viser for the chapter.
Local chapters then make up State
FFA associations, which operate with-
in the bounds of the National FFA Or-
ganization but have the ability to cre-
ate other individual leadership ar-
rangements, competitions, awards, and
programs.
In Pennsylvania alone, our State
FFA association includes over 12,900
members, 210 agriculture science
teachers, and they have raised $179,000
to support the future of agriculture
education and student leader growth.
It is important to understand this
bill will allow the Secretary of Edu-
cation to continue to serve on the Na-
tional FFA board of directors but
would no longer have the Department
of Education’s employees constituting
the majority of the board.
Additionally, this bill will also shift
the organization’s purpose towards pro-
viding comprehensive career and tech-
nical education to strengthen the Na-
tion’s agriculture workforce.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation brings
FFA, a great cornerstone of rural
America—and, quite frankly, having a
tremendous impact, today, on urban
America—into the 21st century.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I support H.R. 439, and I would ask
for favorable consideration.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, in closing, I want to acknowledge
the leadership and commitment of my
colleagues, JIM LANGEVIN of Rhode Is-
land and GLENN THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, for working together on a bipar-
tisan bill to fashion this bill.
I support H.R. 439 even more after lis-
tening to the comments of my fellow
Georgian about his daughter and the
assistance and care that this organiza-
tion has rendered to her and probably
countless others even in more need of
their support.
So, Mr. Speaker, I support organiza-
tions such as FFA. I support this legis-
lation, I ask my colleagues to support
it too, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 439, the ‘‘National
FFA Organization’s Federal Charter Amend-
ments Act.’’
H.R. 439 updates the charter of the Future
Farmers of America (FFA) to include the De-
partment of Education on its board and gov-
erning committee in line with other Congres-
sionally chartered organizations by changing
the makeup of the board to consist of the Sec-
retary of Education, or the Secretary of Edu-
cation’s designee who has experience in agri-
cultural education, the FFA, or career and
technical education and other individuals rep-
resenting the fields of education, agriculture,
food, and natural resources.
The changes will provide the National FFA
Organization more autonomy while allowing it
to collaborate with federal agencies on matters
of mutual interest.
H.R. 439 also shifts the purpose of the FFA
toward agriculture career and technical edu-
cation, provides for online publications, and al-
lows its headquarters to be located outside of
Washington, D.C.
The shift in purpose of the FFA allows it to
become an integral component of instruction
in agricultural education, including instruction
relating to agriculture, food, and natural re-
sources, and helps prepare students for suc-
cessful entry into productive careers in these
fields.
This legislation helps to advance com-
prehensive agricultural education by sup-
porting contextual classroom and laboratory
instruction and work-based experiential learn-
ing.
With the changes promulgated by H.R. 439,
the National FFA organization will be allowed
to develop education materials, programs,
services, and events as a service to State and
local agricultural education agencies while
being a resource and support organization that
does not select, control, or supervise State as-
sociation, local chapter, or individual member
activities.
The FFA’s mission, which remains the
same, is to ‘‘make a positive difference in the
lives of students by developing their potential
for premier leadership, personal growth, and
career success through agricultural edu-
cation.’’
FFA has a strong and positive impact in the
state I represent.
The Texas FFA was chartered in 1929, and
boasts one of the largest state memberships
with over 123,000 members of which more
than a third are young women.
I am a strong supporter of educational orga-
nizations like the FFA.
For instance, each year the Texas FFA con-
ducts career development events over topics
such as agricultural advocacy, food science
and natural resources, entomology, land eval-
uation, and public relations.
In 2018, the Texas FFA awarded over $2
million in scholarships to graduating seniors
who are ‘‘the most capable and deserving FFA
members’’ who will be pursuing a bachelor’s
degree from a Texas college or university.
The FFA gives its members the opportunity
to discover their individual talents and values
while discovering careers in agriculture and
developing leadership skills.
Agriculture is the nation’s largest employer,
with more than 23 million jobs.
Updating the FFA’s Federal Charter means
that the 653,359 FFA members in all 50
states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands will have a national organization that is
in a better position to offer them the support
and resources they need.
For these reason, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 439.
b 1615
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 439.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CLEAN UP THE CODE ACT OF 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 498) to eliminate un-
used sections of the United States
Code, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 498
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Clean Up the
Code Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPEALS.
The following provisions of title 18, United
States Code, are repealed:
(1) Section 46 relating to transportation of
water hyacinths.
(2) Section 511A relating to unauthorized
application of theft prevention decal or de-
vice.
(3) Section 707 relating to 4–H club emblem
fraudulently used.
(4) Section 708 relating to Swiss Confed-
eration coat of arms.
(5) Section 711 relating to ‘‘Smokey Bear’’
character or name.
(6) Section 711a relating to ‘‘Woodsy Owl’’
character, name, or slogan.
(7) Section 715 relating to ‘‘The Golden
Eagle Insignia’’.
(8) Chapter 89—Professions and Occupa-
tions.
(9) Section 1921 relating to receiving Fed-
eral employees’ compensation after mar-
riage.
SEC. 3. CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.
(a) TABLE OF CHAPTERS FOR PART I OF
TITLE 18.—The table of chapters for part I of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to chapter 89.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS FOR CHAPTER 3.—
The table of sections for chapter 3 of title 18,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.009 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H968 January 22, 2019
United States Code, is amended by striking
the item relating to section 46.
(c) TABLE OF SECTIONS FOR CHAPTER 25.—
The table of sections for chapter 25 of title
18, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing the item relating to section 511A.
(d) TABLE OF SECTIONS FOR CHAPTER 33.—
The table of sections for chapter 33 of title
18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the item relating to section
707;
(2) by striking the item relating to section
708;
(3) by striking the item relating to section
711;
(4) by striking the item relating to section
711a; and
(5) by striking the item relating to section
715.
(e) TABLE OF SECTIONS FOR CHAPTER 93.—
The table of sections for chapter 93 of title
18, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing the item relating to section 1921.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
498, the Clean Up the Code Act. I sup-
port this measure because it represents
a small yet meaningful step toward ad-
dressing the problem of over-criminal-
ization. H.R. 498 repeals several crimi-
nal penalties for violations that do not
involve serious wrongdoing, at least
not serious enough to warrant criminal
prosecution or the consequences of a
criminal record.
Specifically, the bill decriminalizes
the transportation of water hyacinths,
the unauthorized application of theft
prevention decals or devices, and the
unauthorized use of the 4–H Club em-
blem; the Swiss Confederation coat of
arms; the ‘‘Smokey Bear’’ character or
name; the ‘‘Woodsy Owl’’ character,
name, or slogan; or the ‘‘Golden Eagle
Insignia.’’
The conduct that these laws are de-
signed to deter or punish simply does
not merit criminal sanctions. This bill
repeals a number of these obscure and
unnecessary criminal provisions.
Criminal penalties should be reserved
to deter offenses that jeopardize public
safety or as punishment for serious
moral transgressions. Such penalties
should not be used to punish minor
transgressions or to discourage behav-
ior deemed unwanted but ultimately
harmless to the greater public good.
Therefore, while H.R. 498 is a modest
step toward addressing the problem of
over-criminalization, I support its
adoption by the House today.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to recog-
nize the efforts of my colleague, Rep-
resentative STEVE CHABOT, who is the
author of this measure and who shep-
herded it to House passage last year
with 385 votes in favor. I was the lead
cosponsor of the bill last Congress, and
I am pleased again to serve in that role
for this bipartisan legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in voting for it today, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I also rise in support of
H.R. 498. This bill continues the House
Judiciary Committee’s commitment to
addressing over-criminalization and
over-federalization in our Nation’s
criminal code. Last Congress I was
proud to work with my friend and col-
league from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES)
to develop and enact the First Step
Act, the most significant piece of
criminal justice reform legislation in
decades. Today’s bill, championed by
Mr. CHABOT of Ohio, builds off that
great victory and continues that proc-
ess.
Part of the reasoning behind the
First Step Act was that Congress, as
our Nation’s lawmaking body, can and
should from time to time make reason-
able revisions to Federal law to ensure
our laws work efficiently and fairly.
Today our criminal code is bloated
with nearly 5,000 separate crimes. The
bill before us begins to address that
problem by eliminating nine sections
of the Federal criminal code. Those
sections either criminalize conduct
that should not, fundamentally, be a
Federal crime, or have never been pros-
ecuted, or both.
For instance, the unauthorized use of
the Smokey Bear emblem, while prob-
lematic, should not land someone in a
Federal penitentiary for 6 months, es-
pecially when there are civil statutes
already on the books protecting this
and other insignia.
Mr. Speaker, this bill continues the
Judiciary Committee’s proven ap-
proach to criminal justice reform legis-
lation, namely to take a scalpel, not a
sledgehammer, to the criminal code. I
would like to thank my colleague, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and also my col-
league on the Republican side of the
Judiciary Committee, Mr. CHABOT, for
their work on this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Hous-
ton, Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Georgia,
and I congratulate him and Mr. CHABOT
for this legislation. I am glad that this
is one of the early bills that we are
moving forward. It sets the tone for
this Congress, and it sets the tone for
bipartisanship. It also sets the tone for
the Democratic-led Congress on the
continuation of working on the idea of
ensuring that justice is truly rendered.
This bill, H.R. 498, the Clean Up the
Code Act of 2017, essentially repeals
many unused statutes currently in the
criminal code. Mr. Speaker, you have
to pay a fine, but some of them even
have jail time. It is right in line with
the concept of ending mass incarcer-
ation just to incarcerate.
It is well-known that this Nation has
the largest number of people incarcer-
ated in Western civilization, some 2
million-plus, added to, of course, by a
number of individuals who are being
held in detention centers across the
Nation. It is emblematic of what is ter-
ribly wrong with our criminal justice
system and sheds light on why it is im-
perative to have an overhaul of our
Federal Criminal Code while address-
ing the ripple effects it creates within
our criminal justice system.
We had a task force entitled the
Over-Criminalization Task Force in
the Judiciary Committee which made
an effective start on looking at Federal
laws across the Nation to find out how
we can best secure and safeguard the
American people, bring justice to those
who have done wrong, but also provide,
if you will, a pathway of reasonable-
ness as it relates to nonviolent crimes,
crimes that don’t have a major impact
such as the concept of utilizing the
Smokey Bear theme, if you will.
We began our journey several Con-
gresses ago to work in a bipartisan way
to address the ills of our criminal jus-
tice system, as I have indicated, and I
look forward to having the Over-Crim-
inalization Task Force reestablished.
As this bill seeks to promote, we
must take initiatives to clean up our
Federal Criminal Code, which in large
part criminalizes many acts that can
easily be addressed in other forms such
as smaller fines. When we over-crim-
inalize, we place an undue burden on
the taxpayers and create long-term
human costs on families and other
communities. What we do is we create
a criminal offense and we create a
criminal record.
We should penalize where necessary
to ensure public safety and security
and hold accountable those criminals
who have done major damage and who
would tend to offend, where appro-
priate. But we should also look for
ways in which we could enhance our
communities, human relations with ci-
vilians and law enforcement, and pro-
mote an entirely new approach to our
criminal justice system.
For all of the foregoing reasons and
as well to suggest that Smokey Bear
and Woodsy Owl would prefer being left
alone as opposed to being held up in a
criminal court as a reason for that par-
ticular offender being held to a fine of
a large amount or jail time, I think
this is an important bill and an impor-
tant step.
I congratulate the authors, both the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.006 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H969
January 22, 2019
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
CHABOT). I look forward to supporting
this legislation, and I ask my col-
leagues to support the legislation.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to support H.R. 498, the ‘‘Clean Up
the Code Act of 2019.’’
This legislation essentially repeals many un-
used statutes currently in the criminal code.
It is emblematic of what is terribly wrong
with our criminal justice system and sheds
light on why it is imperative to have an over-
haul of our federal criminal code, while ad-
dressing the ripple effects it creates within our
criminal justice system.
We began our journey several Congresses
ago to work in a bipartisan way to address the
ills of our criminal justice system through our
Over-criminalization Task Force, which I in-
tend to re-establish in this Congress.
As this bill seeks to promote, we must take
initiatives to clean up our federal criminal
code, which in large part, criminalizes many
acts that can easily be addressed in other fo-
rums.
When we over-criminalize we place an
undue burden on the taxpayers and create
long term human costs on families and on our
communities.
We should penalize where necessary to en-
sure public safety and hold accountable crimi-
nals where appropriate.
We should also look for ways in which we
could enhance our communities, human rela-
tions with civilians and law enforcement, and
provide an entirely new approach to our crimi-
nal justice system.
For all the foregoing reasons, I support this
bill and ask my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as he may con-
sume to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
CHABOT) to speak about the bill.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support
of my bill, H.R. 498, the Clean Up the
Code Act of 2019. I want to thank the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON)
for his support and his leadership in
making this legislation possible.
Back in 2008, the Heritage Founda-
tion published a report estimating that
there were nearly 4,500 different Fed-
eral crimes in the U.S. Code. Five years
later, the Judiciary Committee asked
the Congressional Research Service to
review the foundation’s findings only
to be told that it did not have the re-
sources to fulfill our request. This is a
clear indication that there are too
many criminal laws on the books and
the code needs to be cleaned up.
H.R. 498 eliminates nine provisions in
Title 18, a good start, that in some in-
stances have never been prosecuted
since their enactment. For example, as
has already been mentioned, the unau-
thorized use of the Smokey Bear or
Woodsy Owl will no longer be subject
to criminal penalty if this bill is en-
acted.
This bipartisan legislation is aimed
at doing exactly what the bill title
says—clean up the code. If there were
too many criminal laws for the CRS to
count back in 2013, let’s help them get
rid of the easy ones by enacting this
legislation. As I say, it is a good start.
It isn’t going to solve the whole prob-
lem, but it is a good start, and I urge
my colleagues to support this legisla-
tion.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, may I inquire as to how many addi-
tional speakers my friend from Georgia
foresees?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, it appears we have exhausted the
supply, so we are ready to close.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, with that in mind, I see that my
dear colleague, JIM LANGEVIN, has ar-
rived. He is the sponsor of H.R. 439
which is the Future Farmers of Amer-
ica charter revision bill. He is the spon-
sor of that bill. He was on his way from
the airport. His flight was delayed, but
he is here now.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
LANGEVIN).
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Georgia for
yielding me time. I hope I won’t use all
5 minutes. I first want to say I support
the bill under debate right now and
certainly support criminal justice re-
form. One of the best ways, of course,
we can prevent people from hopefully
going down the path of crimes is to
make sure they have a good education,
so hence I am here to speak on H.R.
439.
Mr. Speaker, as co-chair of the bipar-
tisan Congressional Career and Tech-
nical Education Caucus, I am pleased
to rise with my good friend and fellow
co-chair, Representative G.T. Thomp-
son, in support of H.R. 439, the Na-
tional FFA Organization’s Federal
Charter Amendments Act. I would like
to thank my friend from Pennsylvania
for his partnership on this bill which
modernizes the FFA congressional
charter to better serve the organiza-
tion’s 669,000 student members across
the country.
Since 1928 the FFA, formerly known
as Future Farmers of America, has
been an integral part of our Nation’s
agricultural education system. Its mis-
sion is to prepare the next generation
of farmers who form the backbone of
our Nation’s food supply system. Con-
gress recognized the FFA’s importance
in 1950 when it granted the organiza-
tion a Federal charter. But today,
nearly 70 years later, that charter is
overdue for an update.
Of the 100 nonprofit organizations
that have charters with the Federal
Government, from the Girl Scouts of
America to the National Academy of
Sciences, only six require government
agencies to appoint members to the
NGO’s board of directors. Of those six,
the FFA is the only federally chartered
organization that requires a majority
of its board members to be chosen by
its partner agency, the Department of
Education.
The bill that had been considered
this afternoon and that passed brings
the role of the Department of Edu-
cation in line with other congression-
ally chartered organizations while
maintaining the long relationship be-
tween the department and the FFA. In
doing so, it gives the FFA more auton-
omy to deliver its integrated system of
agricultural career and technical edu-
cation, or CTE, to the 8,000 chapters lo-
cated across all 50 States, Puerto Rico,
and the Virgin Islands.
H.R. 439 allows the FFA to be more
independent, but it retains its ability
to collaborate with the Department of
Education in agriculture. It also allows
the FFA to move its headquarters from
Washington, D.C. and provide online
publications for its chapters around
the country. The FFA needs to adapt
to the 21st century economy, and mod-
ernizing this charter is a necessary
step in that process.
Today the FFA helps train more than
future farmers. It prepares the next
generation of scientists, veterinarians,
and business owners through classroom
and work-based learning. As a strong
advocate for CTE, I am thrilled to sup-
port the skills-based education model
on behalf of the FFA and its many
teachers and students. Our bill aligns
the FFA’s charter with this focus on
CTE, specifically the Agriculture,
Food, and Natural Resources Career
Cluster which gives students the oppor-
tunity to explore exciting careers and
be prepared for future challenges.
b 1630
Our country faces daunting tasks in
agricultural policy, from addressing
food shortages to containing animal-
borne diseases and stopping the pollu-
tion of our waterways.
Mr. Speaker, we can count on our Na-
tion’s FFA students to not only grow
our economy but to become the next
community of world leaders, ready to
tackle these 21st century challenges.
In my home State of Rhode Island, I
am continually impressed by the hard-
working, motivated, bright FFA stu-
dents and the dedicated teachers who
instruct them. Through the FFA, these
students are developing the academic
and technical skills to succeed in agri-
cultural fields and the leadership skills
to make a real difference.
This bill, the National FFA Organiza-
tion’s Federal Charter Amendments
Act, will allow the FFA to continue its
mission with more autonomy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank, again, my col-
league G.T. THOMPSON from the great
State of Pennsylvania, along with
Chairman NADLER and Ranking Mem-
ber COLLINS, for their support, as well
as my esteemed colleague Senator
TODD YOUNG of Indiana for leading this
bipartisan effort in the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for supporting this bill, and I thank the
gentleman from Georgia for yielding.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise on H.R. 498. Again, this is a
good act. The Clean Up the Code Act is
one that I ask everyone to support and
vote ‘‘yes’’ on, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, while I do not believe Federal pros-
ecutors are neglecting the pursuit of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.012 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H970 January 22, 2019
serious criminals by bringing charges
under Criminal Code provisions that
H.R. 498 would repeal, this bill serves
as an important reminder that Con-
gress should be careful not to enact
new criminal penalties when they are
not warranted.
We must resist overcriminalization,
which fosters disrespect for the seri-
ousness of the law and leads to collat-
eral consequences for offenders that
are often catastrophic to them and
their ability to function in and con-
tribute to their communities.
It is my hope that, in this new Con-
gress, we will be able to work on a bi-
partisan basis to expand our efforts to
make our criminal justice system more
fair and, thereby, also more effective.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 498.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CAESAR SYRIA CIVILIAN
PROTECTION ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 31) to require certain additional
actions in connection with the national
emergency with respect to Syria, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 31
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Caesar Syria
Civilian Protection Act of 2019’’.
TITLE I—ADDITIONAL ACTIONS IN CON-
NECTION WITH THE NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY WITH RESPECT TO SYRIA
SEC. 101. MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO CENTRAL
BANK OF SYRIA.
(a) DETERMINATION REGARDING CENTRAL
BANK OF SYRIA.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall deter-
mine, under section 5318A of title 31, United
States Code, whether reasonable grounds
exist for concluding that the Central Bank of
Syria is a financial institution of primary
money laundering concern.
(b) ENHANCED DUE DILIGENCE AND REPORT-
ING REQUIREMENTS.—If the Secretary of the
Treasury determines under subsection (a)
that reasonable grounds exist for concluding
that the Central Bank of Syria is a financial
institution of primary money laundering
concern, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Federal functional regulators (as defined
in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act (15 U.S.C. 6809)), shall impose one or
more of the special measures described in
section 5318A(b) of title 31, United States
Code, with respect to the Central Bank of
Syria.
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after making a determination under sub-
section (a) as to whether or not the Central
Bank of Syria is a financial institution of
primary money laundering concern, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port that includes the reasons for the deter-
mination.
(2) FORM.—A report required by paragraph
(1) shall be submitted in unclassified form,
but may include a classified annex.
(3) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Appro-
priations of the Senate.
SEC. 102. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOR-
EIGN PERSONS THAT ENGAGE IN
CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.
(a) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On and after the date that
is 180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the President shall impose the
sanctions described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to a foreign person if the President de-
termines that the foreign person, on or after
such date of enactment, knowingly engages
in an activity described in paragraph (2).
(2) ACTIVITIES DESCRIBED.—A foreign person
engages in an activity described in this para-
graph if the foreign person—
(A) knowingly provides significant finan-
cial, material, or technological support to,
or knowingly engages in a significant trans-
action with—
(i) the Government of Syria (including any
entity owned or controlled by the Govern-
ment of Syria) or a senior political figure of
the Government of Syria;
(ii) a foreign person that is a military con-
tractor, mercenary, or a paramilitary force
knowingly operating in a military capacity
inside Syria for or on behalf of the Govern-
ment of Syria, the Government of the Rus-
sian Federation, or the Government of Iran;
or
(iii) a foreign person subject to sanctions
pursuant to the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)
with respect to Syria or any other provision
of law that imposes sanctions with respect to
Syria;
(B) knowingly sells or provides significant
goods, services, technology, information, or
other support that significantly facilitates
the maintenance or expansion of the Govern-
ment of Syria’s domestic production of nat-
ural gas, petroleum, or petroleum products;
(C) knowingly sells or provides aircraft or
spare aircraft parts that are used for mili-
tary purposes in Syria for or on behalf of the
Government of Syria to any foreign person
operating in an area directly or indirectly
controlled by the Government of Syria or
foreign forces associated with the Govern-
ment of Syria;
(D) knowingly provides significant goods
or services associated with the operation of
aircraft that are used for military purposes
in Syria for or on behalf of the Government
of Syria to any foreign person operating in
an area described in subparagraph (C); or
(E) knowingly, directly or indirectly, pro-
vides significant construction or engineering
services to the Government of Syria.
(3) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that, in implementing this section,
the President should consider financial sup-
port under paragraph (2)(A) to include the
provision of loans, credits, or export credits.
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The sanctions to be im-
posed with respect to a foreign person sub-
ject to subsection (a) are the following:
(A) BLOCKING OF PROPERTY.—The President
shall exercise all of the powers granted to
the President under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and
prohibit all transactions in property and in-
terests in property of the foreign person if
such property and interests in property are
in the United States, come within the United
States, or are or come within the possession
or control of a United States person.
(B) ALIENS INELIGIBLE FOR VISAS, ADMIS-
SION, OR PAROLE.—
(i) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—An alien
who the Secretary of State or the Secretary
of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of
such Secretaries) knows, or has reason to be-
lieve, has knowingly engaged in any activity
described in subsection (a)(2) is—
(I) inadmissible to the United States;
(II) ineligible to receive a visa or other
documentation to enter the United States;
and
(III) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(ii) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The issuing consular offi-
cer, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary
of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of
such Secretaries) shall, in accordance with
section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or
other entry documentation issued to an alien
described in clause (i) regardless of when the
visa or other entry documentation is issued.
(II) EFFECT OF REVOCATION.—A revocation
under subclause (I)—
(aa) shall take effect immediately; and
(bb) shall automatically cancel any other
valid visa or entry documentation that is in
the alien’s possession.
(2) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person
that violates, attempts to violate, conspires
to violate, or causes a violation of regula-
tions promulgated under section 303 to carry
out paragraph (1)(A) to the same extent that
such penalties apply to a person that com-
mits an unlawful act described in section
206(a) of that Act.
(3) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT.—Sanctions
under paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply with
respect to an alien if admitting or paroling
the alien into the United States is necessary
to permit the United States to comply with
the Agreement regarding the Headquarters
of the United Nations, signed at Lake Suc-
cess June 26, 1947, and entered into force No-
vember 21, 1947, between the United Nations
and the United States, or other applicable
international obligations.
TITLE II—ASSISTANCE FOR THE PEOPLE
OF SYRIA
SEC. 201. CODIFICATION OF CERTAIN SERVICES
IN SUPPORT OF NONGOVERN-
MENTAL ORGANIZATIONS’ ACTIVI-
TIES AUTHORIZED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), section 542.516 of title 31, Code
of Federal Regulations (relating to certain
services in support of nongovernmental orga-
nizations’ activities authorized), as in effect
on the day before the date of the enactment
of this Act, shall—
(1) remain in effect on and after such date
of enactment; and
(2) in the case of a nongovernmental orga-
nization that is authorized to export or reex-
port services to Syria under such section on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.014 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H971
January 22, 2019
the day before such date of enactment, apply
to such organization on and after such date
of enactment to the same extent and in the
same manner as such section applied to such
organization on the day before such date of
enactment.
(b) EXCEPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 542.516 of title 31,
Code of Federal Regulations, as codified
under subsection (a), shall not apply with re-
spect to a foreign person that has been des-
ignated as a foreign terrorist organization
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), or otherwise
designated as a terrorist organization, by the
Secretary of State, in consultation with or
upon the request of the Attorney General or
the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraph (1) shall
apply with respect to a foreign person on and
after the date on which the designation of
that person as a terrorist organization is
published in the Federal Register.
SEC. 202. BRIEFING ON STRATEGY TO FACILI-
TATE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the strategy of the
President to help facilitate the ability of hu-
manitarian organizations to access financial
services to help facilitate the safe and time-
ly delivery of assistance to communities in
need in Syria.
(b) CONSIDERATION OF DATA FROM OTHER
COUNTRIES AND NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANI-
ZATIONS.—In preparing the strategy required
by subsection (a), the President shall con-
sider credible data already obtained by other
countries and nongovernmental organiza-
tions, including organizations operating in
Syria.
(c) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Appro-
priations of the Senate.
TITLE III—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President may sus-
pend in whole or in part the imposition of
sanctions otherwise required under this Act
for periods not to exceed 180 days if the
President determines that the following cri-
teria have been met in Syria:
(1) The air space over Syria is no longer
being utilized by the Government of Syria or
the Government of the Russian Federation
to target civilian populations through the
use of incendiary devices, including barrel
bombs, chemical weapons, and conventional
arms, including air-delivered missiles and
explosives.
(2) Areas besieged by the Government of
Syria, the Government of the Russian Fed-
eration, the Government of Iran, or a foreign
person described in section 102(a)(2)(A)(ii) are
no longer cut off from international aid and
have regular access to humanitarian assist-
ance, freedom of travel, and medical care.
(3) The Government of Syria is releasing
all political prisoners forcibly held within
the prison system of the regime of Bashar al-
Assad and the Government of Syria is allow-
ing full access to the same facilities for in-
vestigations by appropriate international
human rights organizations.
(4) The forces of the Government of Syria,
the Government of the Russian Federation,
the Government of Iran, and any foreign per-
son described in section 102(a)(2)(A)(ii) are no
longer engaged in deliberate targeting of
medical facilities, schools, residential areas,
and community gathering places, including
markets, in violation of international norms.
(5) The Government of Syria is—
(A) taking steps to verifiably fulfill its
commitments under the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons
and on their Destruction, done at Geneva
September 3, 1992, and entered into force
April 29, 1997 (commonly known as the
‘‘Chemical Weapons Convention’’), and the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons, done at Washington, London, and
Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force
March 5, 1970 (21 UST 483); and
(B) making tangible progress toward be-
coming a signatory to the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production
and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biologi-
cal) and Toxin Weapons and on their De-
struction, done at Washington, London, and
Moscow April 10, 1972, and entered into force
March 26, 1975 (26 UST 583).
(6) The Government of Syria is permitting
the safe, voluntary, and dignified return of
Syrians displaced by the conflict.
(7) The Government of Syria is taking
verifiable steps to establish meaningful ac-
countability for perpetrators of war crimes
in Syria and justice for victims of war
crimes committed by the Assad regime, in-
cluding by participation in a credible and
independent truth and reconciliation proc-
ess.
(b) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 30
days after the President makes a determina-
tion described in subsection (a), the Presi-
dent shall provide a briefing to the appro-
priate congressional committees on the de-
termination and the suspension of sanctions
pursuant to the determination.
(c) REIMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—Any sanc-
tions suspended under subsection (a) shall be
reimposed if the President determines that
the criteria described in that subsection are
no longer being met.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit the
authority of the President to terminate the
application of sanctions under section 102
with respect to a person that no longer en-
gages in activities described in subsection
(a)(2) of that section.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, the Committee
on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives;
and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate.
SEC. 302. EXEMPTIONS; WAIVERS; EXCEPTION RE-
LATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.
(a) EXEMPTIONS.—The following activities
and transactions shall be exempt from sanc-
tions authorized under this Act:
(1) Any activity subject to the reporting
requirements under title V of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.),
or to any authorized law enforcement, na-
tional security, or intelligence activities of
the United States.
(2) Any transaction necessary to comply
with United States obligations under—
(A) the Agreement regarding the Head-
quarters of the United Nations, signed at
Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into
force November 21, 1947, between the United
Nations and the United States;
(B) the Convention on Consular Relations,
done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered
into force March 19, 1967; or
(C) any other international agreement to
which the United States is a party.
(b) WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may, for
periods not to exceed 180 days, waive the ap-
plication of any sanction authorized under
this Act with respect to a foreign person if
the President certifies to the appropriate
congressional committees that such a waiver
is in the national security interests of the
United States.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 90 days after
the issuance of a waiver under paragraph (1),
and every 180 days thereafter while the waiv-
er remains in effect, the President shall brief
the appropriate congressional committees on
the reasons for the waiver.
(c) HUMANITARIAN WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
for renewable periods not to exceed 2 years,
the application of any sanction authorized
under this Act with respect to a nongovern-
mental organization providing humanitarian
assistance not covered by the authorization
described in section 201 if the President cer-
tifies to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that such a waiver is important to
address a humanitarian need and is con-
sistent with the national security interests
of the United States.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 90 days after
the issuance of a waiver under paragraph (1),
and every 180 days thereafter while the waiv-
er remains in effect, the President shall brief
the appropriate congressional committees on
the reasons for the waiver.
(d) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this Act shall not include the author-
ity or requirement to impose sanctions on
the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, the Committee
on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives;
and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate.
SEC. 303. REGULATORY AUTHORITIES.
The President shall, not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
promulgate regulations as necessary for the
implementation of this Act.
SEC. 304. SUNSET.
This Act shall cease to be effective on the
date that is 5 years after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.011 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H972 January 22, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 31,
the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection
Act, as amended, currently under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this is the third time I
have stood on the House floor to argue
in favor of passing this bill, to argue
that we need to dial up the pressure on
the Assad regime; that we need to
crack down on his enablers, namely,
Iran and Russia; and that we need to
push for a political solution that will
end the years of horrific bloodshed.
I made that case in November 2016,
when the House unanimously passed a
version of this bill. I did it again in
May of 2017, and again it passed unani-
mously, only to languish in the other
body for the rest of the Congress,
stopped by one single Senator.
In Syria, in the last 26 months that
have come since the House first passed
this bill, the suffering has continued.
Over the last few weeks, in the Rukban
refugee camp, 13 babies froze to death,
and 50,000 more displaced people in this
camp are at grave risk. They have no-
where else to go. Unchecked, the Assad
regime will likely move in and mas-
sacre these innocent people.
I could go on and on, detailing the
horrors the Syrian people have endured
at the hands of this butcher, Assad. I
could describe the atrocities we saw in
photographs smuggled out of Syria by
Caesar, the government photographer
who defected and after whom this bill
is named.
But after years of unremitting blood-
shed, it is long past time for more talk
about Syria. We need action, and my
legislation would be an important step
in the right direction.
This bill would slap sanctions on
anyone who does business with the
Assad regime. It would go after anyone
who provides financing or parts for air-
craft that are used to bomb civilians or
works with the energy or construction
sectors controlled by the Syrian Gov-
ernment.
We don’t want to do accidental harm
with this bill, so we have made sure
that it would not affect NGOs pro-
viding assistance, and we want the ad-
ministration to use this tool to create
leverage, so sanctions could be waived
or suspended if meaningful negotia-
tions were moving forward.
In this respect, this bill encourages
diplomacy and a peaceful, sustainable
solution to the conflict in Syria.
Some people may be resigned to the
idea that Assad is simply going to take
over the country. I disagree. The
United States should not abandon our
options for applying pressure to the re-
gime. Syria with Assad at the helm is
a recipe for sustained conflict, not sus-
tainable peace. For me, sustainable
peace for the people of Syria has al-
ways been the goal.
Let me be very clear: This bill would
impose Syria-related sanctions; it
would not impose nuclear-related sanc-
tions.
I know many of my colleagues are
concerned about our withdrawal from
the JCPOA. This legislation is entirely
consistent with what President Obama
promised us after entering into the
Iran nuclear deal, that we would con-
tinue to sanction Iran for its desta-
bilizing activities in the region. Sanc-
tions under this bill would not prevent
a future President of the United States
from returning to the Iranian nuclear
agreement.
There is obviously no easy solution
for the crisis in Syria. It wouldn’t have
raged on for years and years if there
were a simple path out of it. But this
bill represents one tool the administra-
tion can use to try to move toward
that solution, to break the status quo.
I also want to mention the fact that
so many wonderful Syrian American
groups have been fighting for this leg-
islation, have been fighting against the
Assad regime, and have really worked
so hard over these past years. It has
really been good working with them,
although, obviously, very, very dif-
ficult.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, January 5, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 31, the ‘‘Caesar Syria Civilian
Protection Act of 2019.’’
As a result of your having consulted with
the Committee on Financial Servicing con-
cerning provisions in the bill that fall within
our Rule X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo ac-
tion on the bill so that it may proceed expe-
ditiously to the House floor. The Committee
on Financial Services takes this action with
our mutual understanding that, by foregoing
consideration of H.R. 31 at this time, we do
not waive any jurisdiction over the subject
matter contained in this or similar legisla-
tion, and that our Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward. Our Com-
mittee also reserves the right to seek ap-
pointment of an appropriate number of con-
ferees to any House-Senate conference in-
volving this or similar legislation and re-
quest your support for any such request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding
with respect to H.R. 31 and would ask that a
copy of our exchange of letters on this mat-
ter be included in the Congressional Record.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 10, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 31, the Caesar Syria
Civilian Protection Act of 2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Finan-
cial Services. I acknowledge that your Com-
mittee will not formally consider H.R. 31 and
agree that the inaction of your Committee
with respect to the bill does not waive any
future jurisdictional claim over the matters
contained in H.R. 31 which fall within your
Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 9, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing with
respect to H.R. 31, the ‘‘Ceasar Syria Civilian
Act of 2019.’’ As a result of your having con-
sulted with us on provisions on which the
Committee on Ways and Means has a juris-
dictional interest, I will not request a se-
quential referral on this measure.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation, and requests your sup-
port for such request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of H.R. 31.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 10, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Thank you for con-
sulting with the Foreign Affairs Committee
on H.R. 31, the Caesar Syria Civilian Protec-
tion Act of 2019, and for agreeing to forgo a
sequential referral request so that the bill
may proceed expeditiously to the House
floor.
I agree that your declining to pursue a re-
ferral in this case does not diminish or alter
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Ways
and Means, or prejudice its jurisdictional
prerogatives on this bill or similar legisla-
tion in the future. I would support your ef-
fort to seek appointment of an appropriate
number of conferees from your Committee
over any parts of the bill under the jurisdic-
tion of the Committee on Ways and Means to
any House-Senate conference on this legisla-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.016 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H973
January 22, 2019
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 10, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 31, the Caesar Syria Ci-
vilian Protection Act of 2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary. I acknowledge that your Committee
will not formally consider H.R. 31 and agree
that the inaction of your Committee with re-
spect to the bill does not waive any future
jurisdictional claim over the matters con-
tained in H.R. 31 which fall within your Com-
mittee’s Rule X jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 11, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 31, the ‘‘Caesar Syria Civilian
Protection Act of 2019,’’ that fall within our
Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate your con-
sulting with us on those provisions. The Ju-
diciary Committee has no objection to your
including them in the bill for consideration
on the House floor, and to expedite that con-
sideration is willing to waive sequential re-
ferral, with the understanding that we do not
thereby waive any future jurisdictional
claim over those provisions or their subject
matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman,
House Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong sup-
port of the Caesar Syria Civilian Pro-
tection Act authored by my good friend
Chairman ENGEL.
For nearly 7 years, we have watched
the barbaric Assad regime launch
countless attacks on the people of
Syria. Since the conflict began in 2011,
more than 500,000 people have been
killed and 14 million have been forced
from their homes.
This destabilizing exodus has im-
posed painful burdens on neighboring
countries. Our committee has heard
disturbing testimony directly from
Syrians caught up in this horrific
nightmare. In fact, I recently met with
the brave defector known to the world
as Caesar, for whom this bill is named.
His story is gut-wrenching. He told
me about the shocking scale of torture
and murder being carried out within
the prisons of Syria. The photographic
evidence he smuggled out and showed
to us proves beyond any doubt the bru-
tality of Bashar al-Assad. The images
are shocking and indelible.
The bill before us today will increase
international pressure on Assad and his
backers by targeting their means of
support. Foreign companies and banks
will have to choose between doing busi-
ness with Assad or with the United
States.
The bill will also sanction anyone
who flies weapons or fighters into
Syria to support his murderous regime.
This bill is about creating leverage to
push the parties to negotiate. It is
about finding a way forward, to be de-
termined by the Syrian people, that
does not allow Assad to continue to ex-
terminate them or drive them from
their homes.
This bill, as the chairman said, has
passed the House twice and is long
overdue. I am confident it will pass to-
night, and I hope that the Senate will
take it up promptly in the new Con-
gress.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
join us as we seek to ease the immense
suffering of the people of Syria and
give them a better hope for the future,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE).
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of this legislation, H.R. 31, the Caesar
Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019. I
am a proud original cosponsor of this
legislation.
Over 7 years, nearly half a million
Syrians killed, 6 million Syrians driven
from their country, over 10 million
Syrians displaced and forced from their
homes, and countless acts of atrocities
from the Assad regime.
Clearly, it is time for this Congress
to act, and this bill would do that. It
would bring much-needed account-
ability to the Assad regime, which is
responsible for horrific crimes, crimes
against its own people. It would do so
by allowing sanctions to be imposed on
people who contribute to these cold-
hearted and merciless acts.
It would require the Treasury De-
partment to determine whether to tar-
get Syria’s Central Bank with money
laundering countermeasures.
Quite simply, I agree with Chairman
ENGEL. We need a political solution
that ends Assad’s crimes, removes him
from power, and allows the Syrian peo-
ple to develop their own future for
their own country.
Assad must be held accountable for
the massacre of his own people, and
this bill will begin to do just that.
Additionally, Russia and Assad must
stop standing by and systematically al-
lowing ISIS to attack minority popu-
lations in Syria, including the Druze
people.
We cannot expect much from these
actors, but it is incumbent upon them
to protect minority populations in
Syria in the territory that they con-
trol. Further, it is also the responsi-
bility of the President of the United
States and his national security team
to speak with one voice regarding our
policy in Syria and the region.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman an additional 1 minute.
Mr. KILDEE. The President has, time
and time again, illustrated that our al-
lies and our adversaries simply cannot
trust what the President says. The ad-
ministration needs to articulate a co-
hesive strategy for the region and for
Syria, particularly after the President,
with no warning to our partners, an-
nounced the U.S. withdrawal.
b 1645
Finally, Mr. Speaker, like Chairman
ENGEL, I thank all of those who have
advocated for this bill, for their tenac-
ity, for their engagement, and I urge
my colleagues to join with them and
stand up for them and immediately
pass this critical legislation to hold
Assad accountable.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL), an original cosponsor of
the bill.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the distinguished ranking mem-
ber, and I, too, add my thanks to
Chairman ENGEL and his predecessor,
Chairman Royce, for their intense and
passionate work on this important sub-
ject.
I was an original cosponsor, and I
support the passage of H.R. 31, the Cae-
sar Syria Civilian Protection Act. This
legislation imposes new sanctions on
Syrian human rights abusers and those
who facilitate the regime’s atrocities.
It also authorizes the State Depart-
ment to support entities that are col-
lecting and preserving that chain of
evidence for eventual prosecution of
those who have committed war crimes
in Syria since the war began in 2011.
The world has witnessed many exam-
ples of butchering and genocide by
menaces throughout history: Hitler,
Stalin, and Mao. They are joined in the
last 8 years by a new name, and that is
Assad and his Russian and Iranian col-
laborators.
Until Mr. Trump’s strategic air-
strikes, for the prior 8 years, the world
has blustered and twiddled while these
modern menaces murdered the inno-
cent civilian population in Syria. Sys-
tematically, they savagely bombed,
bludgeoned, gassed, electrocuted, and
tortured their people. I have seen this
evidence on full display in Washing-
ton’s Holocaust museum, and I urge all
Americans to look at that exhibit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.013 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H974 January 22, 2019
I have heard eyewitness testimony
from the Syrian Emergency Task
Force. Listen to the horrors, Mr.
Speaker:
A survivor of a gas attack told The
New York Times in 2017:
My eyes were burning, my head was throb-
bing, and my throat was blocked. I was suffo-
cating. I tried to inhale, but all I heard was
a horrible rasping sound as my throat closed
up. An unbearable pain drummed in my
head. The world began to blur. I pounded my
chest, but I couldn’t breathe. I thought my
heart was going to explode.
Does this Congress need any more
testimony, Mr. Speaker?
I commend President Trump for
hearing these cries and his leadership
to carry out airstrikes to block Assad’s
mass murder, and I call on him again
to strengthen his resolve against
Assad’s barbarous acts and think of
these innocent Syrian people who face
these terrible atrocities nearly ever
day.
Finally, I urge my colleagues to sup-
port H.R. 31, and I call on the Senate to
not twiddle their thumbs any longer
and act with expedition and pass this
legislation. Let’s not waste any more
time bringing Assad and his co-
conspirators to justice.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I once again
recognize the work of Chairman ENGEL,
his cosponsors, and former Chairman
Royce.
Those of us who have talked to eye-
witnesses and seen video and photos
will never forget the atrocities per-
petrated by Bashar al-Assad: the bomb-
ing of the hospitals, the torture of pris-
oners, and the gassing of children who
died agonizing deaths in their beds.
For 7 years international diplomats
have debated ways to protect civilians
in Syria, with no results. Today, we
send a strong message that the United
States will work to ensure that Assad’s
war machine is halted.
It is not too late to act, as Mr. HILL
eloquently stated. The people of Syria
cannot afford further delay. I urge all
Members to support it, and I sure hope
this time the Senate will be able to
pass it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
In closing, let me thank the ranking
member, Mr. MCCAUL, for his very im-
portant words.
The world has failed the Syrian peo-
ple. Nothing can undo the horrors they
have had, and they have had to endure
them for nearly 8 years. Nothing can
bring back those who have been lost.
But the world owes it to the living and
the dead to try and bring this crisis to
an end.
The role America must play is to
push for a political solution that al-
lows the Syrian people to choose their
own future. That is what American
leadership looks like. That is what sets
us apart from other great powers on
the world stage.
We simply cannot look the other way
and allow Assad, Russia, and Iran to
steamroll over Syria. That would send
a terrible message to our allies. It
would undermine security across the
entire region, and it would cost so
many more innocent lives.
My bill would give the administra-
tion greater leverage to raise the cost
for Assad and crack down on his life-
lines. I ask that all Members support
this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 31, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DIRECTING SECRETARY OF STATE
TO DEVELOP STRATEGY TO RE-
GAIN OBSERVER STATUS FOR
TAIWAN IN WORLD HEALTH OR-
GANIZATION
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 353) to direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain
observer status for Taiwan in the
World Health Organization, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 353
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PARTICIPATION OF TAIWAN IN THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The World Health Organization (WHO)
is a specialized agency of the United Nations,
charged with coordinating health efforts
within the United Nations system. The
World Health Assembly (WHA) is the deci-
sion-making body of the WHO, which con-
venes annually in May to set the policies and
priorities of the organization. Statehood is
not a requirement for attendance at the
WHA, and numerous observers, including
non-members and non-governmental organi-
zations, attended the most recent WHA in
May 2018.
(2) Taiwan began seeking to participate in
the WHO as an observer in 1997. In 2009, with
strong support from successive United States
Administrations, Congress, and like-minded
WHO Member States, and during a period of
improved Cross-Strait relations, Taiwan re-
ceived an invitation to attend the WHA as an
observer under the name ‘‘Chinese Taipei’’.
Taiwan received the same invitation each
year until 2016, when following the election
of President Tsai-Ing Wen of the Democratic
Progressive Party, Taiwan’s engagement in
the international community began facing
increased resistance from the People’s Re-
public of China (PRC). Taiwan’s invitation to
the 2016 WHA was received late and included
new language conditioning Taiwan’s partici-
pation on the PRC’s ‘‘one China principle’’.
In 2017 and 2018, Taiwan did not receive an
invitation to the WHA.
(3) Taiwan remains a model contributor to
world health, having provided financial and
technical assistance to respond to numerous
global health challenges. Taiwan has in-
vested over $6 billion in international med-
ical and humanitarian aid efforts impacting
over 80 countries since 1996. In 2014, Taiwan
responded to the Ebola crisis by donating $1
million and providing 100,000 sets of personal
protective equipment. Through the Global
Cooperation and Training Framework, the
United States and Taiwan have jointly con-
ducted training programs for experts to com-
bat MERS, Dengue Fever, and Zika. These
diseases know no borders, and Taiwan’s
needless exclusion from global health co-
operation increases the dangers presented by
global pandemics.
(4) Taiwan’s international engagement has
faced increased resistance from the PRC.
Taiwan was not invited to the 2016 Assembly
of the International Civil Aviation Organiza-
tion (ICAO), despite participating as a guest
at the organization’s prior summit in 2013.
Taiwan’s requests to participate in the Gen-
eral Assembly of the International Criminal
Police Organization (INTERPOL) have also
been rejected. In May 2017, PRC delegates
disrupted a meeting of the Kimberley Proc-
ess on conflict diamonds held in Perth, Aus-
tralia, until delegates from Taiwan were
asked to leave. Since 2016, the Democratic
Republic of São Tomé and Prı́ncipe, the Re-
public of Panama, the Dominican Republic,
Burkina Faso, and the Republic of El Sal-
vador have terminated longstanding diplo-
matic relationships with Taiwan and granted
diplomatic recognition to the PRC.
(5) Congress has established a policy of
support for Taiwan’s participation in inter-
national bodies that address shared
transnational challenges, particularly in the
WHO. Congress passed H.R. 1794 in the 106th
Congress, H.R. 428 in the 107th Congress, and
S. 2092 in the 108th Congress to direct the
Secretary of State to establish a strategy
for, and to report annually to Congress on,
efforts to obtain observer status for Taiwan
at the WHA. Congress also passed H.R. 1151
in the 113th Congress, directing the Sec-
retary to report on a strategy to gain ob-
server status for Taiwan at the ICAO Assem-
bly, and H.R. 1853 in the 114th Congress, di-
recting the Secretary to report on a strategy
to gain observer status for Taiwan at the
INTERPOL Assembly. However, since 2016
Taiwan has not received an invitation to at-
tend any of these events as an observer.
(b) AUGMENTATION OF REPORT CONCERNING
THE PARTICIPATION OF TAIWAN IN THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section 1
of Public Law 108–235 (118 Stat. 656) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) An account of the changes and im-
provements the Secretary of State has made
to the United States plan to endorse and ob-
tain observer status for Taiwan at the World
Health Assembly, following any annual
meetings of the World Health Assembly at
which Taiwan did not obtain observer sta-
tus.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect and
apply beginning with the first report re-
quired under subsection (c) of section 1 of
Public Law 108–235 that is submitted after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.018 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H975
January 22, 2019
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 353, a bill to regain
observer status for Taiwan in the
World Health Organization, currently
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I will start by thanking
Mr. YOHO for his work on this bill. It
passed the House last Congress with
broad bipartisan support, and I look
forward to seeing that happen again
today.
Mr. Speaker, we all know too well
that disease knows no borders, so it is
in the interest of the United States to
address global health challenges. With-
out the ability to consistently monitor
threats and rapidly coordinate re-
sponses globally, health and lives will
be at risk, including those of Ameri-
cans.
A critical organization in this global
public health effort is the World Health
Organization’s World Health Assembly.
This is a summit meeting of countries
coming together to address global
health challenges.
China is actively lobbying against
Taiwan’s inclusion in these summit
meetings, part of its larger effort to
squeeze Taiwan out of the inter-
national community. Beijing may be-
lieve this serves its own narrow inter-
ests in asserting control over Taiwan,
but it is to the detriment of the effort
to fight disease wherever it strikes.
This bill before us today is a step to
rectify this situation. H.R. 353 en-
hances reporting requirements, which
will provide Congress better insight
into our administration’s efforts to ob-
tain Taiwan’s observer status in the
annual World Health Assembly meet-
ings.
We need to make every effort to en-
sure that China does not strong-arm
and manipulate these international
meetings, which are important oppor-
tunities to make significant progress
on health issues facing the global com-
munity. This progress should not be
jeopardized by Beijing’s political agen-
da.
I support this measure. We should
continue to stand with our partners in
Taiwan, and this resolution does just
that. I urge my colleagues to do the
same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
bill to help Taiwan regain observer sta-
tus in the World Health Organization,
introduced by my good friend from
Florida (Mr. YOHO).
The House passed this bill unani-
mously last Congress. Because Taiwan
has an especially distinguished record
of international contributions to global
health, Taiwan’s exclusion from the
WHO is not just unfair, it is also dan-
gerous.
The world is more and more inter-
connected, and pandemics are a con-
stantly growing threat that can cross
borders at the speed of a jetliner. Un-
fortunately, President Xi and the Com-
munist Party of China continue to
jeopardize global health in their cam-
paign to marginalize Taiwan.
Taiwan has been totally excluded
from participating at the WHO’s World
Health Assembly for 2 years running.
Ultimately, Taiwan’s expulsion from
the WHO illustrates a broader trend.
Taiwan is a model democracy that
makes the world better, while China is
a revisionist authoritarian power that
places the world at risk.
This year will be significant for U.S.-
Taiwan relations as we look forward to
the 40th anniversary of the Taiwan Re-
lations Act.
Xi Jinping just delivered a speech,
where he reiterated a willingness to
use force against Taiwan, and said:
‘‘The Taiwan issue will disappear with
the rejuvenation of the nation.’’
I urge my colleagues to start this
year on the right foot by supporting
Taiwan’s WHO participation and tell-
ing President Xi that Taiwan will
never disappear under our watch.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. CHABOT), a cosponsor of this bill.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Texas for yielding,
and I rise in support of H.R. 353, which
would direct the Secretary of State to
develop a strategy to regain observer
status for Taiwan in the World Health
Organization.
I thank Mr. YOHO for his leadership
on this important issue, and I thank
Mr. ENGEL as well as my colleague
from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) for this as
well. They have both been leaders on
this for a long time.
As a long-time friend of Taiwan and
strong supporter of our bilateral rela-
tionship, I believe it is essential that
they be allowed to participate in the
World Health Organization.
Taiwan has been routinely
marginalized and barred from partici-
pation in multilateral organizations,
despite being a model participant in
the global community and routinely
contributing to global health advance-
ment.
Between 2008 and 2015, Taiwan was in-
vited to participate as an observer at
the annual meeting of the World
Health Assembly, the governing body
of WHO. Unfortunately, in its efforts to
isolate President Tsai, China has effec-
tively blocked Taipei from receiving an
invitation for the past 3 years by erro-
neously tying Taiwan’s participation
to the so-called One China policy.
Beijing is playing politics with not
only the health of Taiwan’s people, but
with the health of the entire inter-
national community because, as Mr.
MCCAUL mentioned, the health of the
world is linked, and so the PRC is es-
sentially putting all our health at risk
by being belligerent in this particular
area.
This is particularly ridiculous be-
cause being an observer of WHA is not
limited to countries, and so participa-
tion does not imply Taiwanese inde-
pendence.
Furthermore, Taiwan should be al-
lowed to participate on its own merits.
It is a de facto country and should be
treated as such, and it would be if it
weren’t for China’s bullying. The soon-
er the world stops participating in Bei-
jing’s fiction that Taiwan is part of
China, the better.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
353.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close, and I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, diseases and pandemics
know no borders. Taiwan is a critical
player in the global health and the
internationally connected transpor-
tation hub. By excluding Taiwan from
participation in the WHO, the Com-
munist Party of China is placing the
world at risk because of their own inse-
curities.
I again thank Mr. YOHO and Chair-
man ENGEL for this bill which deserves
our unanimous support.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
b 1700
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
We have supported a strong U.S.-Tai-
wan relationship since we passed the
Taiwan Relations Act back in 1979. It is
critical that we continue to support
our close friend and partner, Taiwan,
on the world stage and ensure they
maintain a seat at the table when dis-
cussing global health challenges.
But China sees it differently, in pur-
suit of its own narrow political agenda.
Beijing is jeopardizing international ef-
forts to improve global health and
fight transnational disease outbreaks
by redoubling efforts to prevent Tai-
wan from participating in organiza-
tions like the World Health Assembly.
Our response to global health chal-
lenges and crises is stronger when more
countries are involved in the discussion
and prevention. After all, diseases go
from border to border and across bor-
ders. It is ridiculous to try to keep Tai-
wan out.
Our response to global health chal-
lenges is stronger, again, when more
countries are involved in prevention.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.020 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H976 January 22, 2019
There is no reason that the inter-
national community should accept a
scenario where we allow Beijing to
compromise global health as they play
the bully with respect to their neigh-
bor. That is another reason why
Kosovo should be admitted as well.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this measure, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
many of the members who serve in this cham-
ber, myself included, value the important rela-
tionship the United States shares with Taiwan.
To this end, The House of Representatives
unanimously passed legislation in the 115th
Congress similar to the bill that is being de-
bated today. Both bills direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to assist Taiwan in
regaining observer status at the World Health
Organization.
As a cosponsor of H.R. 3320 in the 115th
Congress, I commend the gentleman from the
great state of Florida for bringing this bill to
the floor early in this Congress. Taiwan has
been a model member of the global health
community, having served as an observer in
the World Health Assembly from 2009 until
2016. Taiwan has also contributed in enhanc-
ing regional and global disease prevention
networks, along with working with other coun-
tries to ensure the World Health Organiza-
tion’s vision of health being a fundamental
human right is successfully met.
While some outside actors try to prevent
Taiwan from contributing to the global health
community as an observer at the World Health
Organization, it is important for all of us to re-
alize that the best way to address the chal-
lenges of today and tomorrow with regards to
global health is to work together, rather than
exclude parties due to geopolitics. Mr. Speak-
er, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.
353.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 353.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NATO SUPPORT ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 676) to reiterate the support of
the Congress of the United States for
the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 676
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘NATO Sup-
port Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that:
(1) The North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion (NATO), which came into being through
the North Atlantic Treaty, which entered
into force on April 4, 1949, between the
United States of America and the other
founding members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, has served as a pillar of
international peace and stability, a critical
component of United States security, and a
deterrent against adversaries and external
threats.
(2) The House of Representatives affirmed
in H. Res. 397, on June 27, 2017, that—
(A) NATO is one of the most successful
military alliances in history, deterring the
outbreak of another world war, protecting
the territorial integrity of its members, and
seeing the Cold War through to a peaceful
conclusion;
(B) NATO remains the foundation of
United States foreign policy to promote a
Europe that is whole, free, and at peace;
(C) the United States is solemnly com-
mitted to the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation’s principle of collective defense as
enumerated in Article 5 of the North Atlan-
tic Treaty; and
(D) the House of Representatives—
(i) strongly supports the decision at the
NATO Wales Summit in 2014 that each alli-
ance member would aim to spend at least 2
percent of its nation’s gross domestic prod-
uct on defense by 2024;
(ii) condemns any threat to the sov-
ereignty, territorial integrity, freedom and
democracy of any NATO ally; and
(iii) welcomes the Republic of Montenegro
as the 29th member of the NATO Alliance.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the President shall not withdraw the
United States from NATO; and
(2) the case Goldwater v. Carter is not con-
trolling legal precedent with respect to the
withdrawal of the United States from a trea-
ty.
SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to remain a member in good standing of
NATO;
(2) to reject any efforts to withdraw the
United States from NATO, or to indirectly
withdraw from NATO by condemning or re-
ducing contributions to NATO structures,
activities, or operations, in a manner that
creates a de facto withdrawal;
(3) to continue to work with NATO mem-
bers to meet their 2014 Wales Defense Invest-
ment Pledge commitments; and
(4) to support robust United States funding
for the European Deterrence Initiative,
which increases the ability of the United
States and its allies to deter and defend
against Russian aggression.
SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF FUNDS TO
WITHDRAW FROM NATO.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds are authorized to be appro-
priated, obligated, or expended to take any
action to withdraw the United States from
the North Atlantic Treaty, done at Wash-
ington, DC on April 4, 1949, between the
United States of America and the other
founding members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 676, reit-
erating the support of the Congress of
the United States for the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization, currently
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing the author of this bill, the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. PANETTA).
I was glad to join him as an original
cosponsor, and I am grateful as well to
our ranking member, Mr. MCCAUL, for
his strong support of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, for nearly 70 years, the
NATO alliance has been the bedrock of
transatlantic peace, security, and sta-
bility. For seven decades, NATO has
been synonymous with Western democ-
racy.
The organization’s architects had a
tremendous vision, and that vision
translated into the most successful po-
litical military alliance in history, an
alliance that won the Cold War, that
brought peace to the Balkans, that
fought terrorism in Afghanistan, that
today is guarding against Russian ag-
gression in Europe and training forces
in Iraq and elsewhere.
Now, Mr. Speaker, we have heard,
most notably from the President, that
NATO is obsolete, that it is ill-suited
to 21st century challenges. That is just
plain wrong.
Would we be safer without Article 5,
the principle that says an attack on
one is an attack on all, an attack on
one NATO member is an attack on all
NATO members, the commitment that
brought our NATO allies to fight at our
side after September 11? Would we be
better off without 28 other countries
that share our values and that know
how to fight together effectively? Of
course not.
NATO is not a burden, Mr. Speaker.
It is a bulwark against aggressive
forces that seek to undermine democ-
racy and the rule of law, against
strongmen who flout international law
and act as though might makes right.
NATO is our greatest strategic ad-
vantage, one built over time and at
great sacrifice. We simply cannot cede
such an advantage. Past and future
generations alike would never forgive
the squandering of something so pre-
cious. We cannot betray our young sol-
diers, sailors, airmen, and marines by
sending them into battle alone, with-
out capable allies to share the burden.
So this bill, again, reiterates Con-
gress’ commitment to NATO. It would
also prohibit any withdrawal from
NATO.
I am glad we are considering it so
early in this Congress. It sends a clear
message to our allies, to our adver-
saries, and to the administration that
this branch of government fully sup-
ports the alliance, the collective de-
fense of our allies, and peace across the
North Atlantic region.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.022 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H977
January 22, 2019
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to endorse
the NATO Support Act. We are rapidly
approaching the 70th anniversary of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion, a fitting time for the House to re-
affirm the importance of the trans-
atlantic alliance.
NATO was born out of the chaos of
World War II and built to fortify Euro-
pean democracies against Soviet total-
itarianism. Time and again, the alli-
ance has proven that the free peoples of
the world are strongest when they
stand together.
From the confrontation with com-
munism during the Cold War, to the de-
feat of Milosevic in Kosovo, to the bat-
tlefields of Afghanistan, American sol-
diers and those of her NATO allies have
fought and bled together to protect our
country and to make others free.
This alliance has enhanced our mili-
tary capability, increased our intel-
ligence collection, and created a bul-
wark against international terror.
NATO is critical to our national secu-
rity and to the preservation of our
military prowess around the world.
It solidifies our friendship with the
individual countries in the alliance.
But friends also must be honest with
each other. That is why I am glad that
this bill strongly supports the decision
of the Wales Summit in 2014, that each
member country should ramp up de-
fense spending to 2 percent of their
GDP.
An alliance of mutual defense is only
as strong as each country’s commit-
ment to its spending goals. While some
member countries have made great
strides toward this commitment, oth-
ers are still lagging behind.
Statements of support, like this bill,
are important in affirming our rela-
tionships around the world. But ac-
tions speak louder than words. No
statement about the importance of
NATO speaks as loudly as the tangible
commitment each country makes to
ensuring the strength of the alliance.
In the meantime, I am glad to join
this effort to reaffirm the continuing
importance of NATO, which deserves
our full support.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PANETTA), the author of
this legislation who has worked very
hard on this legislation.
Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate this opportunity. Obviously, I
would like to share my appreciation of
Chairman ENGEL for everything that he
has done as a leader of all of his con-
stituents in his district and, more im-
portantly, all of our fellow countrymen
and -women here in the United States
of America; as well as Ranking Member
MCCAUL; and the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. HURD), my good friend.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 676, the NATO Support Act.
This is a bipartisan bill that allows
Congress to assert our Nation’s support
for NATO; to answer anybody who
questions the purpose of this alliance;
and to reaffirm the NATO pledge, that
an armed attack on one of us is an at-
tack on all of us.
The mutual defense pledge is why
NATO has been the most successful
military alliance in human history. It
is an interdependency that has stood as
a sturdy, strong, and sound anchor for
peace that has prevented new world
wars, fostered Western prosperity, and
advanced democratic governance.
It has been the will of our Nation,
the United States of America, to lead
and to finance the defense of other na-
tions, which has allowed them to de-
velop and prosper economically, and to
expand and evolve democratically.
Yet, at the same time, Moscow never
went to war with a NATO partner. We
got bases and a guarantee that we
would not have to fight alone. Europe
became our largest trading and invest-
ment partner and our chief diplomatic
and military companion. And every-
body on the European Continent got
stability and peace to strengthen their
democracies.
Now, all of us agree that we can con-
tinue to put pressure on our NATO
partners to pay their self-stated goal of
2 percent of their GDP to this alliance.
But that doesn’t mean that we want to
get out of NATO. In fact, doing such
would be a historic mistake.
NATO is not—is not—a transactional
relationship. Our sole focus can’t be
just on who pays and who gets what.
Being a part of NATO is not like being
a part of a country club. Instead, we
value our NATO partners, and more
importantly, we realize that the power
of the NATO partnership is abso-
lutely—absolutely—invaluable. The
tangible results prove it, not just what
we have seen in the past, but what we
are seeing now.
In our enduring fight against ter-
rorism, our NATO partners’ will to join
that effort was demonstrated just
hours after the attack on 9/11, as part-
ner nations volunteered to invoke Arti-
cle 5.
Now, I served alongside many troops
from many NATO countries during my
service in Afghanistan from 2007 to
2008. I left that country in 2008, but I
can tell you, after 17 years of war,
NATO troops are still there, serving
alongside our sons and daughters who
are serving in uniform.
When it comes to Russia, our NATO
partners will continue to play an im-
portant role as a deterrent for their ag-
gression, and they will continue to co-
ordinate and collaborate with us as we
not only ready for a conventional war
but also push back against Russia’s use
of hybrid warfare.
NATO is instrumental in setting us
apart from Russia. Why? We have allies
that will stand by us; Russia does not.
That is the foundation for our NATO
partnership, and that is the foundation
for the NATO Support Act, an act that
rejects efforts to withdraw from NATO
and prohibits any funds to be used as
such.
It supports increased defense spend-
ing by NATO partners, as well as the
funding of the European Deterrence
Initiative to deter against Russian ag-
gression. It reaffirms our unwavering
support of NATO, not only as a defense
pledge, not only as a partnership, but
as a proven core for an international
order that favors democracy and peace.
Once again, Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL. I also thank Daniel
Silverberg from Majority Leader Hoy-
er’s staff, Jacqueline Ramos from the
Foreign Affairs Committee, and Matt
Manning and Jay Hernandez from my
office.
Mr. Speaker, I respectfully thank and
ask all of my colleagues, Republican
and Democrat, for their support on
H.R. 676, the bipartisan NATO Support
Act.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, in the
spirit of the bipartisanship behind sup-
porting this bill, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CON-
NOLLY).
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I do
want to take a moment to clarify a
conversation we had here on the floor
last week on sanctions legislation
against Mr. Deripaska, a Russian oli-
garch. My remarks were passionate and
aimed at the administration’s proposed
policy to lift sanctions on that indi-
vidual. In no way did my remarks in-
tend to reflect on the integrity of my
friend from Texas, who was, in fact, co-
managing the bill to oppose that ac-
tion.
As my friend from Texas knows, I ad-
mire him deeply, and I believe that he
is a leader of integrity. Nothing I said
last week was meant in any way to de-
flect from that. I wanted to clarify
that publicly on the floor.
I thank my good friend for yielding
me time, and I look forward to talking
about the issue at hand. I, again, thank
my good friend from Texas.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. CONNOLLY), a very respected
member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my dear friend, the distin-
guished chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, and I thank my
friend, the distinguished ranking mem-
ber of the House Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, for helping Mr. PANETTA bring
this bill to the floor.
I rise today in support of H.R. 676,
the NATO Support Act, reiterating
congressional support for the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization and prohib-
iting U.S. withdrawal from that orga-
nization.
As we mark 70 years of the NATO al-
liance this year, it is critical we recog-
nize the invaluable role that NATO has
played in protecting U.S. national in-
terests and global stability.
NATO remains the foundation of U.S.
foreign policy to promote a Europe
that is whole, free, and at peace. NATO
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.024 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H978 January 22, 2019
has invoked Article 5, the commitment
to collective defense, only once in 70
years, and that invocation was on be-
half of the United States after we were
attacked on 9/11.
As a result, nearly one-third of the
fatalities suffered by coalition forces
when we fought in Afghanistan to rid
that country of al-Qaida and the
Taliban—one-third of the casualties—
were from non-U.S. NATO member and
partner countries.
b 1715
They put their blood and their flesh
on the line on behalf of this country as
part of that alliance.
Despite these sacrifices, unfortu-
nately, our President has questioned
the value of NATO and falsely claimed
that NATO allies owe the United
States money.
As head of the United States delega-
tion to the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly and rapporteur for the political
committee of that assembly, I can at-
test to the anxiety within NATO re-
garding this administration’s commit-
ment to the alliance.
Case in point: one can’t talk about
the U.S. commitment to Article 5 in
2019 without mentioning President
Trump’s failure to embrace it in full
view of our NATO allies during his first
Presidential trip to Brussels in 2017.
This past summer at NATO’s annual
summit in Brussels, President Trump
injected further discord into the alli-
ance by calling our NATO ally, Ger-
many, a ‘‘captive of Russia’’ and de-
manding that ‘‘delinquent’’ alliance
members increase their defense spend-
ing ‘‘immediately.’’
The President’s provocative com-
ments undermined the summit’s goal
of projecting unity in the face of re-
newed Russian aggression, especially
given that they occurred just days be-
fore what turned out to be a very dif-
ficult, if not disastrous, Helsinki sum-
mit with Vladimir Putin.
Meanwhile, Russia continues its forc-
ible and illegal occupation in the Cri-
mea, eastern Ukraine, Abkhazia and
South Ossetia in Georgia, and parts of
Moldova, and its attack on democ-
racies throughout Europe and even in
our own country.
Mr. Speaker, that is why I urge my
colleagues to support Mr. PANETTA’s
bill. This bill affirms the U.S. support
for NATO and preempts any attempts
to withdraw from the same.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, let me
first say to Mr. CONNOLLY, we have a
lot of passionate partisan debates on
this floor, but I have to say, that was
a class act on his part, and I thank him
for his comments.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. HURD), an
original cosponsor of the bill.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
am proud to join with my colleagues to
introduce this bipartisan bill to reaf-
firm the commitment of Congress to
the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion, as we know it. We call it NATO.
For 70 years now, almost 1 billion
people from Los Angeles and London,
to Tallinn and Thessaloniki have lived
in peace and prosperity, in no small
part due to the security provided by
NATO.
As a CIA officer in Afghanistan, like
my friend and colleague from Cali-
fornia, I had the opportunity to serve
side by side with NATO forces in the
fight against al-Qaida and the Taliban.
I saw every day the professionalism
and dedication of these brave men and
women who, like our soldiers, were
fighting to protect their nations and
way of life.
More than 1,000 NATO soldiers paid
the ultimate sacrifice fighting along-
side the United States in Afghanistan.
In the global fight against terrorism,
NATO allies have stood with us time
and time again. As my friend from the
Commonwealth of Virginia noted, in
NATO’s entire history, 9/11 was the
first time the alliance invoked Article
5, the commitment that an attack
against one ally is an attack against
all.
In our darkest hour, every member of
NATO answered the call to fight terror
at home and abroad.
In Europe, NATO countries continued
to deter Russia from threatening our
democratic partners. Through military
exercises in forward deployments in
Eastern Europe, we have demonstrated
our shared resolve against the aggres-
sive ambitions of Vladimir Putin. That
includes a stronger commitment by our
allies to provide for their own defense.
They have spent over $2.8 trillion on
defense in the last decade, with spend-
ing increasing for the fourth straight
year in 2018.
These partners, not Russia, are our
true friends, and we must always stand
with them.
We face many shared challenges, and
the only way we can overcome them is
by working together and continuing
the strong transatlantic bond that
unites our Nations.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this legislation.
It is an honor to work alongside my
friend from the great State of Cali-
fornia, Mr. PANETTA, the chairman, and
the ranking member of this important
committee.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers. I am prepared to
close, and I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we cannot overstate the
critical role that NATO has played in
the history of the 20th century, and for
7 decades, it has been the cornerstone
of international security and a force
for freedom around the world.
I look forward to its continued vital-
ity in defending America and our allies
for another 70 years.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me again, in closing,
thank my friend from Texas (Mr.
MCCAUL); Mr. PANETTA; our majority
leader, Mr. HOYER; and all of this bill’s
sponsors.
As this debate has made perfectly
clear, there is no partisan disagree-
ment in this body when it comes to the
importance of NATO.
Right now, we are dealing with an
adversary in Russia that desires noth-
ing more than to see the western alli-
ance splinter. Vladimir Putin’s aim is
to undermine democracy, to split us
apart from our allies, to drive division
in the organizations that have kept
Russia in check.
The last thing the United States
should do is send mixed signals about
our commitment, as this President, un-
fortunately, has done. It plays right
into Putin’s hands.
From Congress, you will get no such
ambiguity. We hope our allies hear
that and we hope Putin hears it as
well.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support
this bill strongly, I urge Members to do
the same, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 676, critical
legislation that expresses the unified opposi-
tion of Congress to any attempt by the Presi-
dent to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and reaffirms that it is
the policy of the United States to remain a
member in good standing of NATO and its
commitment to Article 5 of the North Atlantic
Treaty and its principle of collective defense.
In the aftermath of World War II, the great-
est conflict in all of human history, the United
States, Canada, and their Western Europe al-
lies founded the North American Treaty Orga-
nization (NATO) on April 14, 1949 in Wash-
ington, D.C.
Founded on the principle of collective de-
fense, Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty
states that, ‘‘The Parties agree that an armed
attack against one or more of them in Europe
or North America shall be considered an at-
tack against them all.’’
In the 69 years since the Treaty’s ratifica-
tion, Article 5 has only been invoked once, fol-
lowing the terrorist attacks of September 11,
2001, when NATO members came to the aid
of the United States.
NATO sent seven planes with 830 crewmen
from 13 countries to protect American skies
until May 2002, marking the first time in Amer-
ican history that the continental United States
was protected by foreign forces.
NATO allies and partners have stood with
the United States in joint operations in the
Western Balkans, Afghanistan, Iraq, and else-
where around the world.
Until the current President took office, every
American president since the treaty’s signing
in 1949—Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy,
Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan,
George H.W. Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush,
and Obama—has publicly reaffirmed the
American commitment to Article 5.
American presidents have affirmed this na-
tion’s commitment to come to the aid of any
NATO member that is under attack.
That is the symbolic meaning of the immor-
tal words spoken by President Kennedy in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.025 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H979
January 22, 2019
West Berlin at the Brandenburg Gate in 1963:
‘‘Ich bien ein Berliner.’’
Mr. Speaker, the principle of collective de-
fense is the core of NATO’s founding treaty
and the NATO alliance has been the back-
bone of American national security and foreign
policy for nearly 70 years.
The strength and solidarity of this western
alliance kept Western Europe whole, pros-
perous, and free and paved the way for the
collapse of the Soviet Union and the liberation
of the nations of Eastern and Central Europe,
many of which have now been integrated into
NATO.
The Constitution of the United States grants
Congress the sole power to declare war, but
Article 5 does not increase the chance of war.
Rather, NATO is a bulwark against the out-
break of war because it deters aggression by
any adversary.
As a result, NATO is the most successful
military alliance in world history, successfully
deterring the outbreak of a third world war,
seeing the Cold War to a victorious conclu-
sion, and protecting the principle of territorial
integrity.
This is why I strongly support H.R. 676,
which reaffirms the commitment of the Con-
gress to Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty.
The legislation also expresses support for
the agreement reached at the 2014 NATO
Wales Summit calling upon each NATO mem-
ber nation to allocate at least two percent of
its gross domestic product to defense by
2024.
The legislation also expresses congres-
sional support for robust United States funding
for the European Deterrence Initiative, which
increases the ability of the United States and
its allies to deter and defend against Russian
aggression.
Finally, H.R. 676 provides that no funds are
authorized to be appropriated, obligated, or
expended to take any action to withdraw the
United States from the North Atlantic Treaty
signed on April 14, 1949, in Washington, D.C.,
between the United States of America and the
other 15 founding members of the North Atlan-
tic Treaty 16 Organization.
I urge all Members to join me in affirming
the commitment of the United States to the
North Atlantic Treaty, which has kept the
peace on the European continent for nearly 70
years and continues to serve as a bulwark
and deterrent to Russian aggression and its
long-held strategic objective of splitting the
Western Alliance that has done more than any
other collective enterprise in history to pre-
serve and maintain international peace.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of H.R. 676, the NATO Support Act.
For almost 70 years, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization has formed the corner-
stone of national security policy for the post-
war world order. Through this alliance, we
have successfully defeated communism, halt-
ed genocide in the Balkans, defended against
threats from terrorism in Afghanistan, and
maintained cohesion with our like-minded
democratic partners. By forming these rela-
tionships, we have successfully defended our
values and principles in the face of repression
and tyranny. While we no longer face the
same existential threat posed by the Soviet
Union, NATO’s resolve and stability has
helped maintain peace in a world drowning
with strongmen. That is why I stand in support
this bipartisan legislation.
H.R. 676 codifies Congressional support of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, while
calling on our allies to modernize their capa-
bilities and meet the Wales Defense Invest-
ment Pledge. Five years ago, NATO members
agreed to reverse their declining defense
budgets and balance the responsibilities that
come with our partnership. While it was an
ambitious goal, we have already seen many of
our partners increase their commitments to
our mutual security by meeting the agreed
upon threshold of spending 2 percent of GDP
on defense.
As part of our commitment, we must con-
tinue to support the European Deterrence Ini-
tiative, by maintaining a robust U.S. presence
throughout the European theater. Most impor-
tantly, this legislation would ensure that no
matter which way the political winds blow no
administration could use funds to withdraw
from this treaty without the consent of the co-
equal branch of government in Congress.
NATO is not some outdated relic from past
conflicts. We are living in a world where re-
pression is on the rise, and human freedom is
increasingly in jeopardy. What our partnership
stands for, what NATO defends—it gives hope
to the repressed. That is why I urge my col-
leagues in joining me in passing this legisla-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 676.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
HACK YOUR STATE DEPARTMENT
ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 328) to require the Secretary of
State to design and establish a Vulner-
ability Disclosure Process (VDP) to im-
prove Department of State cybersecu-
rity and a bug bounty program to iden-
tify and report vulnerabilities of inter-
net-facing information technology of
the Department of State, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 328
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Hack Your
State Department Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘bug
bounty program’’ means a program under
which an approved individual, organization,
or company is temporarily authorized to
identify and report vulnerabilities of inter-
net-facing information technology of the De-
partment in exchange for compensation.
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of State.
(3) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.—The term
‘‘information technology’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 11101 of title 40,
United States Code.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of State.
SEC. 3. DEPARTMENT OF STATE VULNERABILITY
DISCLOSURE PROCESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall design, establish, and
make publicly known a Vulnerability Disclo-
sure Process (VDP) to improve Department
cybersecurity by—
(1) providing security researchers with
clear guidelines for—
(A) conducting vulnerability discovery ac-
tivities directed at Department information
technology; and
(B) submitting discovered security
vulnerabilities to the Department; and
(2) creating Department procedures and in-
frastructure to receive and fix discovered
vulnerabilities.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In establishing the
VDP pursuant to paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall—
(1) identify which Department information
technology should be included in the process;
(2) determine whether the process should
differentiate among and specify the types of
security vulnerabilities that may be tar-
geted;
(3) provide a readily available means of re-
porting discovered security vulnerabilities
and the form in which such vulnerabilities
should be reported;
(4) identify which Department offices and
positions will be responsible for receiving,
prioritizing, and addressing security vulner-
ability disclosure reports;
(5) consult with the Attorney General re-
garding how to ensure that individuals, orga-
nizations, and companies that comply with
the requirements of the process are pro-
tected from prosecution under section 1030 of
title 18, United States Code, and similar pro-
visions of law for specific activities author-
ized under the process;
(6) consult with the relevant offices at the
Department of Defense that were responsible
for launching the 2016 Vulnerability Disclo-
sure Program, ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’, and
subsequent Department of Defense bug boun-
ty programs;
(7) engage qualified interested persons, in-
cluding nongovernmental sector representa-
tives, about the structure of the process as
constructive and to the extent practicable;
and
(8) award contracts to entities, as nec-
essary, to manage the process and imple-
ment the remediation of discovered security
vulnerabilities.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Not later than 180
days after the establishment of the VDP
under subsection (a) and annually thereafter
for the next six years, the Secretary of State
shall submit to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate a report on the VDP, including infor-
mation relating to the following:
(1) The number and severity, in accordance
with the National Vulnerabilities Database
of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, of security vulnerabilities re-
ported.
(2) The number of previously unidentified
security vulnerabilities remediated as a re-
sult.
(3) The current number of outstanding pre-
viously unidentified security vulnerabilities
and Department of State remediation plans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.025 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H980 January 22, 2019
(4) The average length of time between the
reporting of security vulnerabilities and re-
mediation of such vulnerabilities.
(5) The resources, surge staffing, roles, and
responsibilities within the Department used
to implement the VDP and complete secu-
rity vulnerability remediation.
(6) Any other information the Secretary
determines relevant.
SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT OF STATE BUG BOUNTY
PILOT PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a bug bounty
pilot program to minimize security
vulnerabilities of internet-facing informa-
tion technology of the Department.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In establishing the
pilot program described in paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall—
(A) provide compensation for reports of
previously unidentified security
vulnerabilities within the websites, applica-
tions, and other internet-facing information
technology of the Department that are ac-
cessible to the public;
(B) award contracts to entities, as nec-
essary, to manage such pilot program and for
executing the remediation of security
vulnerabilities identified pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A);
(C) identify which Department information
technology should be included in such pilot
program;
(D) consult with the Attorney General on
how to ensure that individuals, organiza-
tions, or companies that comply with the re-
quirements of such pilot program are pro-
tected from prosecution under section 1030 of
title 18, United States Code, and similar pro-
visions of law for specific activities author-
ized under such pilot program;
(E) consult with the relevant offices at the
Department of Defense that were responsible
for launching the 2016 ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’
pilot program and subsequent Department of
Defense bug bounty programs;
(F) develop a process by which an approved
individual, organization, or company can
register with the entity referred to in sub-
paragraph (B), submit to a background check
as determined by the Department, and re-
ceive a determination as to eligibility for
participation in such pilot program;
(G) engage qualified interested persons, in-
cluding nongovernmental sector representa-
tives, about the structure of such pilot pro-
gram as constructive and to the extent prac-
ticable; and
(H) consult with relevant United States
Government officials to ensure that such
pilot program complements persistent net-
work and vulnerability scans of the Depart-
ment of State’s internet-accessible systems,
such as the scans conducted pursuant to
Binding Operational Directive BOD–15–01.
(3) DURATION.—The pilot program estab-
lished under paragraph (1) should be short-
term in duration and not last longer than
one year.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date on which the bug bounty pilot pro-
gram under subsection (a) is completed, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives a report on such pilot
program, including information relating to—
(1) the number of approved individuals, or-
ganizations, or companies involved in such
pilot program, broken down by the number
of approved individuals, organizations, or
companies that—
(A) registered;
(B) were approved;
(C) submitted security vulnerabilities; and
(D) received compensation;
(2) the number and severity, in accordance
with the National Vulnerabilities Database
of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, of security vulnerabilities re-
ported as part of such pilot program;
(3) the number of previously unidentified
security vulnerabilities remediated as a re-
sult of such pilot program;
(4) the current number of outstanding pre-
viously unidentified security vulnerabilities
and Department remediation plans;
(5) the average length of time between the
reporting of security vulnerabilities and re-
mediation of such vulnerabilities;
(6) the types of compensation provided
under such pilot program; and
(7) the lessons learned from such pilot pro-
gram.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 328, the
Hack Your State Department Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I might consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing Representative LIEU, a valued
member of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, for his hard work on this bill
and on everything else.
This important legislation passed the
House in the last Congress with strong
bipartisan support, and I certainly sup-
port passing it again.
Mr. Speaker, it is critical that we
modernize our government to better
deal with 21st century challenges. The
State Department is under the con-
stant threat of cyberattack from for-
eign actors bent on stealing our se-
crets, disrupting our foreign policy,
and undermining our security.
Mr. LIEU’s bill will help shore up the
State Department against this sort of
intrusion.
First, it requires the Secretary of
State to get out ahead of this problem.
Instead of waiting for the next attack
to happen, this bill would mandate a
plan for researchers to actively seek
out and report vulnerabilities.
Secondly, this bill launches a new
initiative, the so-called ‘‘bug bounty
program.’’ This seeks to tap the exper-
tise of everyday Americans by reward-
ing citizens who uncover and report se-
curity risks in the Department’s com-
puter system. It will allow security re-
searchers and friendly hackers to find
the cracks in the system so that the
Department can patch them.
This effort is modeled after a suc-
cessful program at the Defense Depart-
ment, which got off the ground in 2016.
Since then, 1,400 people have registered
to participate, and they have found
roughly 140 vulnerabilities.
Our Federal agencies should learn
from one another. It is just common
sense to put this tested practice to
work at the State Department and
elsewhere.
Mr. Speaker, I am very glad to sup-
port this bill, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
Hack Your State Department Act,
which will help address lingering cy-
bersecurity gaps at the Department of
State.
The massive breach of the State De-
partment’s unclassified computer net-
work in 2014 exposed grave weaknesses.
In the years since that attack, prob-
lems have continued to mount. The De-
partment’s cybersecurity response pro-
gram received a ‘‘D’’ rating, the lowest
of any agency, on its Federal Informa-
tion Security Management Act report
card in 2017.
Last September, the Department re-
vealed that it recently suffered a
breach of its unclassified email system,
which exposed the personal informa-
tion of some of its employees.
The Department needs cost-effective
solutions to these IT security chal-
lenges.
Today’s legislation directs the Sec-
retary of State to develop and imple-
ment a vulnerability disclosure process
that will allow threat researchers from
the private sector to identify and re-
port cybersecurity flaws.
Currently, there is no legal avenue
that allows them to do so. This bill
fixes that problem.
The bill will establish a ‘‘bug boun-
ty’’ pilot program to reward ethical
hackers for discovering and reporting
vulnerabilities at the Department.
These programs have been used suc-
cessfully by the Defense Department
and numerous private companies to im-
prove their cyber defenses at minimal
cost. In fact, I remember introducing a
similar bill for the Department of
Homeland Security.
As a national security agency, the
State Department must do more to se-
cure its networks. The Hack Your
State Department Act is a small but
important step towards cost-effective
solutions.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the au-
thor, Mr. LIEU, for putting his com-
puter science background to work here
in the Congress, and he understands, I
believe, the nature of the threats that
we face in the cyber realm and the im-
portance of a strong cybersecurity
partnership between the public and the
private sectors.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. TED LIEU), the author of
this bill and a very honored member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Ranking Member
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.021 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H981
January 22, 2019
MCCAUL for his support of this legisla-
tion and I thank Chairman ENGEL for
his leadership of the House Foreign Af-
fairs Committee.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my
legislation, H.R. 328, which will
strengthen cybersecurity at the State
Department. This legislation is known
as the Hack Your State Department
Act. It is introduced with my col-
league, TED YOHO of Florida, and has
received strong bipartisan support, and
that is because there is no such thing
as Republican cybersecurity or Demo-
cratic cybersecurity; it is just cyberse-
curity, and we are behind.
American institutions are under con-
stant attack from criminals, from for-
eign intelligence services, and from ev-
eryday hackers. That is why last term,
I was very honored to have introduced
legislation known as the Hack DHS
Act, along with Senators MAGGIE HAS-
SAN, ROB PORTMAN, KAMALA HARRIS,
and Congressman SCOTT TAYLOR. That
legislation was signed into law last
month.
This legislation focuses on the State
Department. It is something that we
need to do, because we know that the
State Department over the years has
faced mounting cybersecurity threats
from both criminal enterprises and
state-sponsored hackers.
In 2014, for instance, the Department
was infiltrated by Russian hackers and
had to temporarily shut down its email
system.
Last year, the State Department suf-
fered another breach of its email sys-
tem, exposing the personal information
of a number of its employees.
As a recovering computer science
major, I recognize there are improve-
ment tools at our disposal to improve
cybersecurity that the State Depart-
ment has not yet adopted, and one such
tool is exactly what this bill will do.
b 1730
This bill does primarily two things.
The first is to establish what is called
a vulnerability disclosure process,
which sets clear rules of the road so,
when people outside the Department
discover vulnerabilities on Department
systems, they can report it in a safe,
secure, and legal manner, with the con-
fidence that the State Department will
actually fix the problems. We cannot
afford to allow vulnerabilities discov-
ered in the wild remain known to hack-
ers but unknown to the Department.
This should be an easy fix.
The second step is to actually pay
vetted, white hat hackers to find vul-
nerabilities. The Department of De-
fense proved the success of the bug
bounty program back in 2016. Over a 24-
day period, the Pentagon learned of
and fixed over 138 vulnerabilities in its
systems. The DHS is now also going to
start this very same program. Hope-
fully, the State Department will be
able to do this, as well, when this legis-
lation is signed into law.
Let me conclude by saying that,
today, with H.R. 328, the House of Rep-
resentatives is taking these rec-
ommendations to heart and helping to
improve cybersecurity at the Depart-
ment of State.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
In closing, I want to again thank the
author, Mr. LIEU, and his primary
sponsor, Mr. YOHO, for this creative ef-
fort to harness private-sector know-
how to improve cyber defenses at the
Department of State.
As the gentleman, Mr. LIEU, indi-
cated, I moved this very same legisla-
tion when I was chairman of the Home-
land Security Committee for the De-
partment of Homeland Security, and I
believe it is working very effectively.
The Department of Defense has done
the same thing. Now it is time for the
Department of State to take on this
challenge as well.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank
Mr. LIEU for this important piece of
legislation.
It seems to me, Mr. Speaker, that we
have been caught flat-footed before a
range of new threats, including
cyberattacks. Our agencies haven’t
done enough to root out vulnerabili-
ties, and, frankly, Congress hasn’t done
enough to make sure that our govern-
ment agencies have the tools they need
to tackle these challenges.
As we head into the 116th Congress, I
will be leading the Foreign Affairs
Committee in focusing on this. We will
be taking a comprehensive look at
cyber threats to make sure the State
Department and all our departments
and agencies are properly equipped to
handle this challenge. For now, this
bill is an important step in the right
direction.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support the measure before us, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 328.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RESIGNATION FROM THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion from the House of Representa-
tives:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 17, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
SPEAKER PELOSI: I write to you to tender
my resignation from the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, 12th District of Pennsylvania,
effective 12:01 a.m. Wednesday January 23,
2019.
Sincerely,
TOM MARINO,
Member of Congress.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 17, 2019.
Hon. TOM WOLF,
Governor,
Harrisburg, PA.
GOVERNOR WOLF: I write to you to tender
my resignation from the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, 12th District of Pennsylvania,
effective 12:01 a.m. Wednesday January 23,
2019.
Sincerely,
TOM MARINO,
Member of Congress.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 33 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 676;
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 328; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
NATO SUPPORT ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 676), to reiterate the support
of the Congress of the United States for
the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion, and for other purposes, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.029 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H982 January 22, 2019
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 357, nays 22,
not voting 54, as follows:
[Roll No. 44]
YEAS—357
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—22
Allen
Amash
Biggs
Burchett
Cline
DesJarlais
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Griffith
Harris
Hice (GA)
Jordan
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Perry
Rose, John W.
Roy
Steube
Weber (TX)
NOT VOTING—54
Abraham
Arrington
Baird
Barr
Bass
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Cartwright
Collins (NY)
DeFazio
DeLauro
Dingell
Duffy
Estes
Fudge
Gabbard
Gibbs
Gonzalez (TX)
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Johnson (SD)
Jones
Kind
King (NY)
Lamborn
Lipinski
Loebsack
Marchant
Marino
McGovern
McNerney
Moulton
Neal
Payne
Pocan
Porter
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Sánchez
Schakowsky
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Swalwell (CA)
Vargas
Velázquez
Walden
Wilson (FL)
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
b 1900
Mr. WEBER of Texas changed his
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. DAVIDSON of Ohio and
BROOKS of Alabama changed their
vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HACK YOUR STATE DEPARTMENT
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 328) to require the Secretary
of State to design and establish a Vul-
nerability Disclosure Process (VDP) to
improve Department of State cyberse-
curity and a bug bounty program to
identify and report vulnerabilities of
internet-facing information technology
of the Department of State, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 377, nays 3,
not voting 53, as follows:
[Roll No. 45]
YEAS—377
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.033 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H983
January 22, 2019
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Biggs Massie
NOT VOTING—53
Abraham
Arrington
Barr
Bass
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Cartwright
Collins (NY)
DeFazio
DeLauro
Dingell
Doggett
Duffy
Estes
Fudge
Gabbard
Gibbs
Gonzalez (TX)
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Jones
Kind
King (NY)
Lamborn
Lipinski
Loebsack
Marchant
Marino
McGovern
McNerney
Moulton
Neal
Payne
Pocan
Porter
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Sánchez
Schakowsky
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Swalwell (CA)
Vargas
Velázquez
Walden
Wilson (FL)
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
b 1910
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to
be present for votes on January 22nd due to
unavoidable travel delays. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 44
and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 45.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 648, CONSOLIDATED APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2019; PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND
THE RULES; AND WAIVING A RE-
QUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a) OF
RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO
CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN
RESOLUTIONS REPORTED FROM
THE COMMITTEE ON RULES
Mr. MORELLE, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–4) on the resolution (H.
Res. 61) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 648) making appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
providing for consideration of the joint
resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for the
Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes;
providing for consideration of motions
to suspend the rules; and waiving a re-
quirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII
with respect to consideration of certain
resolutions reported from the Com-
mittee on Rules, which was referred to
the House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
b 1915
TRUMP SHUTDOWN IMPACT ON
SNAP RECIPIENTS
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, by now,
you have seen the images of furloughed
public servants lined up at food banks
across our beloved country. This is a
sight seen in communities everywhere,
including throughout northern Ohio.
I rise today to call attention to the
misery the Trump shutdown is creating
for millions of hardworking Americans
who now have to rely on food assist-
ance to get by: working people who
have to be degraded in this way.
Federal workers, who rely on SNAP
food assistance through the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture, face daily un-
certainty from the Trump shutdown.
The early distribution of benefits re-
ceived last week represents the Feb-
ruary SNAP allocation, a sum that
they will be asked to stretch to a date
not yet determined.
Mr. Speaker, this is unacceptable.
President Trump should immediately
act to protect SNAP benefits, reopen
the Federal Government, and bring
Federal workers back to work with
paychecks they have earned.
If you are a furloughed Federal work-
er and face hunger issues, please do not
hesitate to reach out to your local food
bank. You can locate your local food
bank through ‘‘Feeding America’’ to
plan for the uncertain.
f
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
(Mr. WENSTRUP asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to acknowledge the 200th anniversary
of the founding of the University of
Cincinnati, my alma mater.
University of Cincinnati began as the
two original chartered colleges by the
State of Ohio. In January of 1819, the
two merged into the esteemed univer-
sity we know today.
Cincinnati is recognized as a Car-
negie Research 1 university, with over
300,000 alumni across the Nation, and is
the home to top programs in both the
liberal arts and the sciences.
In 1969, Cincinnati was the first col-
lege to implement a co-op program,
setting the stage for universities
around the country, enhancing work-
force development across America.
It is incredible to see how far this
fine institution has come: from two
small colleges so long ago, to the home
of the Nation’s first teaching hospital,
to the fourth oldest continuously oper-
ating law school, to its glory today.
I know the University of Cincinnati
will continue to inspire those who are
lucky enough to call her home.
f
HONORING THE KNIGHTS OF
COLUMBUS
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize and honor the
Knights of Columbus, a fraternal
Catholic organization dedicated to
charitable action.
Some of my colleagues have recently
made disparaging comments about the
mission of the Knights of Columbus,
and I want to be clear: As a member of
that proud organization, I am very
proud of their humanitarian mission.
In 2017 alone, the Knights of Colum-
bus raised $185 million in charitable
contributions and contributed 75 mil-
lion hours of service worldwide.
The Knights of Columbus stand firm-
ly for protecting life in all its forms,
most especially the unborn. They re-
cently donated their one thousandth
ultrasound machine to women’s preg-
nancy centers in the U.S. and around
the world.
Studies have shown that women who
view these ultrasounds of their unborn
child are much more likely to carry
that child to term.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.024 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H984 January 22, 2019
So on today’s anniversary of the Roe
v. Wade decision; let’s listen to the
words of Carl Anderson, leader of the
Knights of Columbus, who said:
‘‘What greater legacy can a person
have than to save a child’s life?’’
f
RECOGNIZING ROGER MOSS
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize my good
friend, Mr. Roger Moss, who is stepping
down as director of the Savannah Chil-
dren’s Choir.
Mr. Moss started the Savannah Chil-
dren’s Choir in 2006, with 30 kids, aim-
ing to transform children into con-
fident leaders through music edu-
cation. Now, the choir is booming. It
mentors hundreds of students, and the
choir has gone on to award-winning
performances throughout Europe.
The choir has brought children of di-
verse backgrounds together for a com-
mon purpose, winning praise from
countless parents, who have seen sig-
nificant improvements in their chil-
dren’s ambitions, demeanor, creativity,
and much more.
I thank Mr. Moss for his important
work in the Savannah community.
However, I understand his work will
continue as he is beginning a new
school: the Savannah Exploratory
Charter Academy. We are, indeed, very
fortunate in Savannah that Roger Moss
has adopted us as his home and brought
his immense talents with him.
Mr. Speaker, I wish Mr. Moss the
best of luck with his new project.
f
HONORING AL TOWNS
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, 10 years
and 17 days ago, I was given the honor
of working for the people of Texas 22 in
Washington, D.C. They are my bosses.
And one of my bosses was born on Jan-
uary 30 of 1918. His name is Al Towns.
Al was alive during World War I. Al
fought in World War II. He started as a
lowly private. Twenty-two years later,
he retired as an O–6, a full bird colonel.
Al then joined NASA and helped us
go to the Moon in 1969.
At Al’s 101st birthday party next
week, I am sure he will share pearls of
wisdom, like: ‘‘If you want to get some-
thing done, give it to a woman. She
may step on some toes, but she will get
it done.’’ Or, the key to living to 101
years old: ‘‘Don’t think too far ahead.’’
Mr. Speaker, Texas 22 says to Al,
‘‘Roger that. Wilco. Happy birthday.’’
And that is just the way it is.
f
NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my support for Na-
tional School Choice Week, because I
believe that every family should be
able to choose a school that is right for
their children’s needs.
School choice is important because it
gives families the autonomy and free-
dom to do what is in their own chil-
dren’s best interests. It also creates
competition and education, through
which we can really begin to achieve
excellence and innovation.
There is enough evidence to suggest
that competition created by more edu-
cation options increases college readi-
ness and better prepares many students
for life after the classroom.
It opens up balanced opportunities
for students and their families, wheth-
er that is traditional public schools,
public charter schools, public magnet
schools, private schools, online acad-
emies, or other alternatives. That is
because what may be right for one fam-
ily and their children may not be right
for their neighbors’ kids.
National School Choice Week recog-
nizes the need for families to make
that decision for themselves. Your
child only goes each step in their edu-
cation one time. Let’s make the most
of each year of a child’s education op-
portunity, not subject them to experi-
ments.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HORSFORD). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from California (Mr.
GARAMENDI) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the majority
leader.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, it is
time for us to, once again, ponder the
inevitable: that the government of the
United States is important in this
world; that the strongest country in
the entire world ought to have the
strongest operating government; that
all across this globe people once looked
to America as the symbol of leadership,
as the symbol of opportunity, as the
country where things got done, and a
government that functioned, sort of
functioned. We have had our ups and
downs, but really the United States
was always a symbol that other coun-
tries would point to and say: Well,
there is a democracy. It has its ups and
downs, but it has worked. It has been a
place where we could look to for lead-
ership.
We are now 32 days into the shut-
down of the government of the most
important country in the world.
What in the world is our President
thinking? What is going on here? How
did we come to this situation?
Before we get into all of the harm
that is being done by this government
shutdown, let’s understand how we got
here.
Every January, early February, the
administration—the President—puts
forward his proposed budget for the
coming year. The House and the Senate
take that under submission and begin
the process of preparing the appropria-
tions and the laws, the changes to
enact, or not enact, the proposals that
the President has put forth.
b 1930
In that submission, President Trump
proposed $1.6 billion for border secu-
rity. The House looked at it, the Sen-
ate looked at it, and, ultimately, the
Senate passed an appropriation of $1.6
billion.
Unfortunately, that appropriation
was caught up in other debates and
other arguments, and the Department
of Homeland Security that was sup-
posed to receive the $1.6 billion, to-
gether with the Department of the In-
terior, the EPA, Department of Trans-
portation, Department of Justice, and
several other agencies, was not funded
for the whole year but, rather, funded
from October 1 until the following
Thanksgiving.
Then an additional CR, continuing
resolution, was passed until December
11, and that $1.6 billion was part of that
discussion. On December 10, maybe De-
cember 11, the Senate unanimously
passed another continuing resolution
that had $1.6 billion in it, and that con-
tinuing resolution was to go until Feb-
ruary 8.
The next morning, when that bill ar-
rived over here in the House of Rep-
resentatives to be taken up and to pass
through to keep the government open
until February, in the intervening 13
hours, something happened. The Presi-
dent changed his mind and said, not
$1.6 billion. He demanded $5 billion.
And in a conference at the White House
with the leaders, he said: ‘‘If we don’t
get what we want . . . I am proud to
shut down the government . . . I will
take the mantle. . . . ’’
So on that morning of the 11th, the
House of Representatives amended the
bill and said, nope, it is not $1.6 billion.
It is $5 billion, because that is what the
President wanted, and the government
shut down.
I thank the President. At the very
last moment, he changed the game: not
$1.6 billion, which we were prepared to
accept and keep the government open,
but $5 billion, and the government
shut.
In the intervening days, as the de-
bate went on, the $5 billion grew to $5.7
billion for a border wall.
Now, don’t misunderstand. Changes
during the course of a year are com-
mon, and it is common for the adminis-
tration to make a change in its budget.
That is called a budget change pro-
posal.
It comes to the Congress, the House
and the Senate, with all of the rea-
sons—a big stack of paper—all of the
reasons why the change should take
place: some new; something happened
and we have got to deal with it; or, we
need more money for this. And a budg-
et change proposal comes to us with all
of the justification.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.038 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H985
January 22, 2019
To this day, 32 days into this shut-
down, Congress has not received a for-
mal budget change proposal, nor has
Congress received any detail about
where the $5.7 billion wall will be
built—somewhere on the Mexican-
American border. That is 1,900 miles.
Will it be used to repair fences?
Will it be added in some areas?
What are the reasons why it would be
added?
None of that has been provided here.
So here we are 32 days into it, and the
most important government in this
world is shut down.
This border wall is supposed to bring
security to America. Wow, wait a
minute. You are talking about secu-
rity? You are talking about safety?
You are talking about making the lives
of America more secure? How do you
do that when the government is shut
down?
All of the military is working. Thank
God that appropriation passed. But the
Department of Homeland Security is
not, except for those frontline officers
who are considered to be essential. All
of the backroom operation isn’t oper-
ating.
The Coast Guard is out there on the
water, in the ports, but those men and
women are not being paid, 40,000 of
them, a few more, not being paid. Many
of them cannot pay for gas to get to
their jobs.
TSA is operating, but the rest of that
backroom operation is not. Transpor-
tation is not operating. The parks are
closed. The Smithsonian is closed. The
kind of safety that the American pub-
lic depends upon from its government
is not operating.
There were headlines a week ago
about the President somehow being
compromised by Russia. What would be
the best that Putin could ever want?
You go to war to take over a govern-
ment, to shut down a government. You
don’t have to go to war to shut down
the American Government. You go to
the President, who gladly says that he
is proud to shut down the American
Government.
Putin has to be incredibly happy that
his nemesis, America, the government
is shut down.
I have got a lot to talk about to-
night, and joining me are some of my
colleagues who will be talking about
the effect of the shutdown in their
area.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from California (Mr. COSTA), my col-
league and dear friend of many years.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, Congress-
man GARAMENDI has demonstrated
leadership both here in our Nation’s
capital and when we worked together
in Sacramento, and I commend his ef-
forts and thank him for yielding to me.
The government shutdown is simply
irresponsible. The American public un-
derstands that a Congress debates a
budget, the President submits his pro-
posal, and we go through our com-
mittee hearing process. We make modi-
fications and changes. You win some
and you lose some. But by October 1,
we are supposed to have a budget sent
to the President, and he is supposed to
sign it into law.
Now, guess what. A budget is among
the most important things we do as
Members of Congress, and it is the Na-
tion’s spending priorities. It is thou-
sands of spending priorities. There are
some things we like in the budget, and
there are some things that we would
change. But our Nation has to have a
budget, just like every family has a
budget, every business has a budget.
In that family budget or the business
budget, there are things you would
rather not pay—a house payment, a car
payment—but we have obligations and
commitments to make and have to be
responsible.
This government shutdown, this
manufactured crisis orchestrated by
the President in which he proudly pro-
claimed that he would take ownership
of it—they can call it the Trump shut-
down, as he said so boldly in Decem-
ber—is the Trump shutdown. It is sim-
ply irresponsible.
I think the American public, for good
reason, regardless of their registration,
is frustrated, and I suspect many of
them, like myself, are fed up.
I went through the airport security
this morning as I did last week, as I did
the week before, and I thanked those
security officers with TSA for doing
their job. They are doing their job. And
guess what. They are doing it without
pay. That is disgraceful. It is just not
what the shining democracy of Amer-
ica is about, leader of the free world.
But it doesn’t stop there. There are
over 53,000 TSA employees around the
country, 54,000 ICE officers, and 42,000
Coast Guard Active-Duty members who
are working without pay.
Mr. Speaker, I ask the President,
how would it be if he were to suggest to
his employees at his hotels and at his
golf courses—whom he has to pay every
2 weeks or every month—that he wants
them to come to work but he is not
going to pay them?
It is immoral, and it is certainly not
the American way. We don’t expect
people to come to work and then not
pay them.
This manufactured crisis—and be-
lieve me, it is a manufactured crisis—
is the real cause for us all to be con-
cerned about national security. I mean,
the challenges we have at the border,
these Border Patrol agents, these Coast
Guard Active-Duty members are pro-
tecting our security, and we are say-
ing: Well, but, you know, we don’t care
if you have a house payment. We don’t
care if you have a car payment. We
don’t care if you have other commit-
ments and obligations. We expect you
to come to work and to protect our se-
curity, and we are not going to do any-
thing to, in fact, take that into ac-
count. In a way, that is clearly a dere-
liction of our duties.
Mr. Speaker, I would say to the
President that it is a dereliction of his
duty, because he has a responsibility,
just as we do, to ensure that our gov-
ernment is fully functioning. We have
passed the President’s bills and sent
them to him which would fully fund
and reopen the government.
Last Friday, Congressman COX and I
had an informal workshop at the Sub-
way sandwich store in the building
where my office is, where I work on be-
half of the people of the San Joaquin
Valley. In that 10-story office building
are 1,300 IRS employees. That Subway
sandwich store has lost over 50 percent
of its business in the last month. The
two owners, the man and the wife, are
being impacted.
The store in the lobby, it has lost 70
percent of its business. And there is an-
other kabob restaurant in which he is
helping, sometimes, the employees who
are still hanging around there by giv-
ing them sandwiches, but this is his
business.
So it is not just the direct impact of
over 800,000 government employees
across this country, people who work
for the USDA, the United States De-
partment of Agriculture, who operate
the farm service agencies throughout
our constituencies.
Our farmers, our ranchers, and our
dairymen can’t go to those Farm Serv-
ice Agency offices and apply for loans
and other things that are important
with regard to this crazy tariff war
that is taking place because, guess
what. Those offices are closed.
But it is also the ripple effect for
businesses that have contracts with
the Federal Government, whether it is
with the United States Forest Service
or whether it is with other depart-
ments and agencies. They are not get-
ting paid.
But guess what. They have got em-
ployees, and they have got a contract
that they signed with the United
States Government that says they were
going to get paid every month, and
they have commitments to their em-
ployees.
This is the President’s shutdown, and
32 days into it, none of us should be
proud of where we are today. Third-
world countries are looking at us and
wondering: America doesn’t do that.
But we are looking like a third-world
country. Countries around the world
just don’t shut down their government.
Let me close on this note. This is a
phenomena that has happened, really,
in the last 8 years. We had a govern-
ment shutdown in the mid-1990s by
President Clinton and Speaker Ging-
rich, and that was not a good thing.
Normally, as Congressman
GARAMENDI suggested, you have budget
requests. You have debate in commit-
tees. You pass segments of the budget,
and it comes together in an orderly
process. Ultimately, both the House
and the Senate pass that budget and
send it to the President by October 1.
I think there is another principle
here that we need to be very clear
about to the American public. I don’t
care which party it is. We should not
allow bad behavior to be rewarded in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.041 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H986 January 22, 2019
this sense. If you don’t like something
in the budget—and there are a lot of
things I don’t like in the budget—at
the end of the day, you have got to
have a budget.
b 1945
What is happening here is that this is
a manufactured crisis that the Presi-
dent is using to hold hostage a cam-
paign promise he made 2 years ago to
build this wall.
By the way, Mr. Speaker, wasn’t
Mexico going to pay for the wall?
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I be-
lieve so.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I say to
Congressman GARAMENDI, that is what
I heard.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Over and over.
Mr. COSTA. I heard it not once, not
twice, but more times than I care to re-
member. Clearly, Mexico is not going
to pay for the wall.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. GARAMENDI and I
know that there is bipartisan willing-
ness to improve border security. The
gentleman and I know, because we are
from California, that the majority of
the drug trafficking and the other
crimes that are occurring are through
what we call ports of legal entry. That
sounds like a complicated technical
term, but it just means it is an open
border crossing between the U.S. and
Mexico, and thousands of people cross
every day at many of these border
crossings. That is where the over-
whelming majority of the illegal traf-
ficking is taking place, and along the
ocean. And no bill, no bright and shiny
30-foot wall, will make a difference.
El Chapo, whom we are holding now
in prison, built tunnels to get out of
prison. There are tunnels under exist-
ing walls that the President was
briefed on when he went down to the
border last week.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t care how the
wall is built, because it is not going to
improve border security.
Mind you, we have more than 500
miles of existing barriers and fences at
the San Ysidro border, and some of the
other portions of the U.S.-Mexican bor-
der, where it makes sense. Certainly, I
am willing to provide support to im-
prove those existing barriers and to
provide the sort of equipment, drones,
and other technical devices that are
cutting edge, that Border Patrol agents
and ICE agents say will improve our
border security. That is what we
should be doing.
But what we should not be doing is
holding America hostage because of a
political campaign promise that was
made 2 years ago. That is wrong. That
is simply wrong.
Mr. Speaker, Congressman
GARAMENDI is to be commended for
taking a leadership role in this effort.
We have to do some things here that
change the debate and how we produce
a budget so that we don’t allow groups
of either party—our extreme ele-
ments—to decide: Well, gee, I am not
going to go through the regular proc-
ess. I will hold this Congress and I will
hold the American people hostage.
This is impacting our GDP. If the
President doesn’t believe us, he should
ask his own Council of Economic Ad-
visers, because they came out with a
report last week. It is not affecting
only our economy, but it, therefore, af-
fects the world’s economy. That is why
we need to reopen government and
have a thoughtful debate on how we
can, on a bipartisan basis, improve our
border security.
Of the $1.2 million we allocated in
last year’s budget for border security,
this administration, I am told, has
spent around 10 percent of that $1.2 bil-
lion. Now we were going to give him
another $1.6 billion. Then the Presi-
dent—I know we are getting close to
the Super Bowl—to use a football anal-
ogy, on December 18, when we thought
we had an agreement, he decided to
move the goalposts. I can’t say it any
plainer than that.
Mr. Speaker, I ask Congressman
GARAMENDI if he can.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, if I
might, I say to Mr. COSTA that is ex-
actly what he did. In the negotiations,
before inviting the leaders in, agree-
ment had been reached with both
Houses. We were going to move for-
ward. The President changed his mind,
demanded $5 billion, and took credit.
He said: I will shut the government
down, and I will take credit for it.
Indeed, the credit goes to him.
The gentleman said things that are
very interesting. The gentleman went
back to the Gingrich shutdown. That
reminded me, at that time, I was actu-
ally at the Department of the Interior.
There was nobody in the Department of
the Interior except three of us in that
entire department who were working.
Then there was the TED CRUZ shut-
down, and then there were two other
short shutdowns having to do with one
or the other of the fiscal cliffs. In every
case, our Republican colleagues—Ging-
rich, TED CRUZ, other leadership, and
now the President—have used the
American Government as a hostage to
get something that they wanted. Sen-
ator CRUZ wanted to kill the Affordable
Care Act. I don’t recall, but I think
Gingrich was over some tax issues or
some financial issues, fiscal issues. But
in every case, they used the govern-
ment as the hostage.
Now, over in the Senate, Senate Ma-
jority Leader MCCONNELL is cobbling
together a piece of legislation that
would affect the rest of Americans.
Let me just show you some things
here. He is taking a piece of legislation
that we passed last week—it was the
supplemental Disaster Relief Act to
provide additional money. In this case,
this is Paradise, California, where some
18,000 homes were destroyed and 87 peo-
ple killed. The President was there, to-
gether with Governor Brown and our
new Governor, Mr. Newsom. It is a sup-
plemental disaster recovery program
that we passed last week. It is over in
the Senate.
I understand that Senator MCCON-
NELL is going to take that bill and lit-
erally hold not just Paradise, Cali-
fornia, but also Puerto Rico.
Does the gentleman remember the
hurricane in Puerto Rico?
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I was in
Puerto Rico last weekend, and the re-
covery funding is a serious matter, as
it is in Paradise. It is simply wrong. It
is wrong and immoral for us to do this.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, he
intends to hold Puerto Rico hostage,
along with South Carolina; Houston,
Texas; and southern California, the
Ventura area, all of which have in-
curred a natural disaster and, in this
case, a dam breaking in Puerto Rico.
In the case of Paradise, California—
the great fire that occurred there and
the wipeout of a community of 30,000
people—it is now being held hostage for
the border wall. So not only do we have
the U.S. Government hostage—and the
American economy with 800,000 em-
ployees who are not getting paid—we
are now using the supplemental dis-
aster recovery, some $12 billion that
would go to recover these communities
that have been wiped out that are now
being held hostage.
So the gentleman said earlier that
there is something immoral about this,
that to use people’s lives and their
ability to recover, their ability to sus-
tain their family, to get a paycheck, to
work for the American Government to
keep this economy moving, to be held
hostage somehow is terribly, terribly
wrong. But that is what the President
is doing. And, apparently, that is what
Senator MCCONNELL wants to do with
this new bill that he intends to intro-
duce that would hold the disaster re-
covery program hostage for a $5.7 bil-
lion wall somewhere on the border, un-
defined. Something is terribly, terribly
wrong here.
Now, there is an alternative, and I
think Mr. COSTA mentioned it. We
passed legislation repeatedly beginning
on January 3, the first day of the new
Congress, and every day thereafter. I
think it is about 8 days now that we
passed legislation to open the govern-
ment. That is, the new Democratic ma-
jority has done that to open the gov-
ernment. All of those bills are over on
the Senate side.
There is a clean bill that is also open
for discussion on the Senate side this
week. It is the bill that we passed last
week. It would fund the government at
the appropriations level that the Sen-
ate agreed to, $1.6 billion for border se-
curity and all the other programs all
worked out in a great compromise.
That bill passed the House last week. It
is sitting over in the Senate.
There would be one exception to full
funding for the remainder of this
year—that is until September 30—and
that is the Department of Homeland
Security, which controls the border.
That would be a temporary continuing
resolution until February. I think it is
the 28th of February.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I think
until the end of February, which would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.042 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H987
January 22, 2019
allow us to debate appropriate border
security in a committee process in the
House and in the Senate, working to-
gether with this administration and
the President. There would be give and
take. There would be compromises. I
think we should get back to doing the
people’s business in an appropriate
fashion, without taking hostages, be-
cause it is simply wrong. We should not
let the American public think that we
have lost sight of what the regular
order of the United States Congress is
to pass appropriations bills and, ulti-
mately, to pass a budget.
That is where this incredibly egre-
gious activity is taking place in recent
years. I think we know that, at some
point, there will be a series of com-
promises, and we will reopen govern-
ment. So why don’t we just do it sooner
rather than later and end the pain and
anguish of hundreds of thousands of
people who are protecting our secu-
rity—they are hardworking men and
women of our country—without pay-
checks?
All the other independent contrac-
tors who do business with the govern-
ment and who have employees or have
small businesses, like that Subway
sandwich shop in Fresno or the market
or the kabob restaurant, let these peo-
ple do what they do best—work hard
and make a living for themselves and
their families, and contribute to our
economy—because what we are doing
right now is wrong.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, Mr.
COSTA mentioned the Subway sandwich
shop. When I was back in my district
over the weekend, I was contacted by a
small company operating in Davis,
California, that has technology that
the TSA would employ at the airports
to keep us all safer. They will go out of
business. They have 13 employees.
Their contract is sitting, not finished.
They are not getting paid for past work
that they have done. They just said:
We don’t know how we will continue
here.
It is a good program. It is necessary
for security at the airports. That is
just one example.
The gentleman mentioned the farm-
ers. I have farmers in my district with
the same problem. I have universities
with research contracts that are being
held up. All of that is being held up.
The reality is that the most impor-
tant government of the world is not op-
erating. When they say it is just 25 per-
cent, that is 25 percent of the money. It
happens to be 80 to 85 percent of the ac-
tivities of the government.
Mr. COSTA. And the ripple effect.
Mr. GARAMENDI. And the ripple ef-
fect all the way through.
Mr. COSTA. To our national parks.
Mr. Speaker, let me close by under-
lining one comment that Mr.
GARAMENDI made earlier. I know, as a
member of the Armed Services Com-
mittee, the gentleman is one of our
leaders as it relates to our Nation’s se-
curity. And I am engaged with a host
of other efforts in our Foreign Affairs
Committee and with our European al-
lies. When the gentleman said that no
one could be happier about this series
of events than the President of Russia,
President Putin, let me underline that,
because we are doing to ourselves what
the Soviet Union and Russia today
have never been able to do to us, which
is undermine our security, undermine
NATO’s security, and undermine the
security of the free world.
That is how serious this is. This man-
ufactured crisis has now risen to such a
level that we are doing to ourselves
what our adversaries have never been
able to do to us through decades of Re-
publican and Democratic Presidents
and Congresses in which, at the water’s
edge, we all bind together because it is
America’s security. I don’t know how
they celebrate in Moscow, but right
now, they must be very pleased this
evening, with smiles on their faces, as
we look at the 32 days of this govern-
ment shutdown.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman so very much for
joining us and bringing to our atten-
tion the issues in his district, as well
as his experience.
The final words that he has said ring
in my ears, and I am sure they ring in
the ears of people around this world
who are looking at the United States
and saying: What is going on there?
What is this all about?
There is much, much more to say. I
will go through a couple things very,
very quickly here.
There are 800,000 government employ-
ees across the Nation—in California,
there are 37,542—who are not being paid
but still working. They are furloughed,
and they are wondering how they will
meet their mortgages and how they
will meet their bills.
b 2000
We also know that this shutdown is
approaching the 1-month mark. And
very, very soon, if we don’t act and we
don’t get this government back up and
working, there are 45,714,688 people in
the United States who will lose their
SNAP benefits—these are the food
stamps—in other words, their ability
to have food on their tables—45,714,000
people.
The day of reckoning for these people
is coming very soon. The exact day is
not exactly known, but it is toward the
end of this month or the first weeks of
February. So let’s keep in mind those
45 million people who depend upon food
stamps.
In my own district, just upstream
from the district is the Oroville Dam,
which came close to collapsing and put
at risk nearly 200,000 people down-
stream from it. Part of the disaster re-
covery is to shore up the levees down-
stream from the Oroville Dam, but
that is now being used as a hostage by
Senator MCCONNELL.
It is unconscionable what is going on
here in America, and it is not nec-
essary.
Democrats have always supported
border security—always supported bor-
der security—and we have supported
walls along the border. In 2006, almost
700 miles of border fencing and walls
were built. In California, in the Ti-
juana-San Diego border area, those
walls have been there for nearly 30
years, maybe even longer than that.
The point here is border security is
more than a wall, and if the President
wants a wall, he needs to tell us where
and why.
Why is it more important than up-
grading the ports of entry, as Mr.
COSTA talked about, where we know 80
to 90 percent of the drugs come
through the ports of entry, the legal
ports of entry? One out of five cars is
checked; four are not.
The containers, the trains, the
planes, the ships all coming through
legal ports of entry, but we don’t have
the technology to check all of them,
nor do we have the operations to be
able to check all of the cars, all of the
planes, all of the containers. So the
drugs come in—even through the post
office.
Wouldn’t it be wise that we spend
money where 80 to 90 percent of the
drugs enter the United States? It is not
in a bunch of children carrying
backpacks who are bringing drugs into
the United States. That is not where
the problem is. The problem is at the
ports of entry.
Mr. President, you have the author-
ity and you have the budget today, the
appropriation today, to fill 3,000 posi-
tions that have remained unfilled for
more than a year, positions at the
ports of entry, U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Patrol positions—3,000. Why are
they not filled? If there is such an
emergency, why are you not out hir-
ing?
You were given $1.2 billion a year ago
to enhance the border security. Less
than 20 percent of that money has been
spent. Why? Why?
If we have a national emergency, why
are you not hiring the necessary people
who are authorized? Why have you not
spent the money that was appropriated
previously?
Why did you shut down the American
Government for an ill-defined border
wall that seems, in the minds of most
of us, to simply be a fulfillment of a
campaign pledge? What is that all
about?
What is going through your mind
that you ignore things that we know
create security: better devices to ob-
serve what is going on, unmanned aer-
ial vehicles to observe what is hap-
pening, sensing devices to know what
is in those containers, men and women
to conduct the inspections, all of those
things? Why are you not doing it?
Why?
Why, Mr. President, did you say that,
unless you get your way, you are going
to shut down the American Govern-
ment; in your own words, you will take
the mantle of the shutdown? In so
doing, you created a real serious na-
tional security threat. Yes, you did.
You shut down the government, and,
in doing so, you have created a real—a
real—national security threat.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.044 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H988 January 22, 2019
HONORING HARRIS WOFFORD, JR.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, be-
fore I terminate this, I want to change
subjects.
A very, very dear friend died, and I
want to bring to the attention of the
House Harris Wofford.
Harris Llewellyn Wofford, Jr., was
born in New York City on April 9, 1926.
At the age of 11, he had the oppor-
tunity to travel around the world with
his grandmother, in 1938. He experi-
enced many defining events during
that time, including what was going on
in Italy with Benito Mussolini and in
Germany with Hitler, the Japanese ag-
gression in Shanghai, and Gandhi’s
movement in India.
His passion for creating change and
fighting for progress began in earnest
during those years. As the civil rights
movement began, Mr. Wofford quickly
became a fervent supporter of Reverend
Martin Luther King, Jr., whom we re-
membered yesterday.
He marched alongside Reverend King
for civil rights and voting rights in
Selma. And during John F. Kennedy’s
campaign for President, Mr. Wofford
played a key role in Kennedy’s efforts
that freed Reverend King from prison,
a move that galvanized the civil rights
movement and helped carry President
Kennedy to the White House a year
later.
Following that election, he served as
President Kennedy’s special assistant
for civil rights and later served as the
head of two colleges. And during his
time with the Kennedy administration,
he helped launch the Peace Corps,
which my wife and I joined shortly
thereafter; and that inspired Patti and
me as we served 2 years in Ethiopia.
In 1991, Mr. Wofford became Penn-
sylvania’s first Democratic Senator in
more than 20 years, unseating the
former Republican Governor and U.S.
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh.
As Senator, he led the effort that es-
tablished the community service pro-
gram, AmeriCorps. My wife, Patti, had
the opportunity to work with Mr.
Wofford as they, together, created the
AmeriCorps program in the 1990s.
In 2008, he introduced then-Senator
Barack Obama before his defining ‘‘A
More Perfect Union’’ speech that is
often credited as the origin of Obama’s
successful campaign for President.
In 1995, Mr. Wofford left the Senate
and began serving as the chief execu-
tive at AmeriCorps, where my wife was
able to work with him.
In a 2005 speech commemorating the
work of French philosopher Teilhard de
Chardin, Mr. Wofford, in considering
the impact of the invention of nuclear
weapons during World War II, said this:
‘‘ . . . the burning question, above all
other questions in the political world,
is: How do we crack the atom of civic
power and start a chain reaction of
constructive force to do for peace what
man has shown can be done for war?
You may say that is the old question
that vexed the 20th century in its occa-
sional search for the moral equivalent
of war. For the 21st century, let’s ac-
cept Teilhard’s challenge and set out to
discover the moral and political equiv-
alent of fire.’’
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
all of Mr. Wofford’s speech on that day,
April 11, 2005.
[From the Woodstock Forum, Apr. 11, 2005]
THE GLOBAL LEGACY OF TEILHARD DE
CHARDIN—GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
(By Harris Wofford)
It’s a special honor to participate in this
50th Anniversary commemoration of
Teilhard’s death—but really this is much
more a celebration of his birth, his new birth
that came to pass after his death when his
words began to be published and spring to
public life.
I would have been here earlier today listen-
ing and learning but for our family’s memo-
rial service in Philadelphia this morning for
my 96-year-old stepmother, who died this
week. Phyllis Taylor Wofford was the first
woman Minister of the Riverside Church of
New York, ordained at age 50 in 1959, just as
Teilhard’s books were spreading around the
world.
Remembering our many discussions in the
43 years since she married my father and
reading her sermons and poems this week-
end, I know she was a reader of Teilhard—
and I think he would have liked one of her
most recurring metaphors that she at-
tributes to her mentor, the great preacher
Harry Emerson Fosdick: The Sunset of Spir-
it that people fear as death. ‘‘Sunset,’’ she
believed, ‘‘is only our limited human way of
looking at things. Nothing has happened to
the sun.’’
You can say that about Teilhard. The lim-
ited human way of looking at his writings
led to perhaps the greatest intellectual mis-
take made by the Church since Galileo. The
earth does move around the sun, and the sun-
light of Teilhard is still there for us, even if
he did not live to see it shine on the world
during his lifetime.
Teilhard would have understood what my
mother the Congregational minister meant
when she said in her ordination statement
that her studies at Union Theological Semi-
nary started ‘‘an adventure in faith’’: ‘‘Doors
which had been closed opened and beyond
them were tremendous vistas.’’ She said that
‘‘All the little scattered fragments of exist-
ence as I know it were at last caught up and
knit together in one comprehensible whole.’’
In the late 1950’s that is what seemed to be
happening to me, in a more amateur fashion,
as my heart leaped up when I first started to
read Teilhard. I was ready for Teilhard—for
his vision that knit together in one com-
prehensible whole, not only a view of the
world and human destiny but a view of the
ever-expanding universe of universes—the
existence we are all trying to comprehend.
Before there was anything of Teilhard’s to
read, I had committed my mind and heart to
his proposition: ‘‘The Age of Nations is past.
The task before us now, if we would not per-
ish, is to build the Earth.’’
At age 12, in the spring of 1938, while
Teilhard was in China or briefly back in
France, I was looting Shanghai. Literally
looting. Except for the international quarter
protected by the French and British forces
and the United States Marines, Shanghai
had been bombed almost out of existence,
and then occupied by the Japanese army.
They sold looting permits to tourists and my
grandmother and I were driven into the de-
serted Chinese city to the roofless remains of
a teahouse. I went in to find some loot.
Other tourists came out with china, silver
and works of art. To my grandmother’s dis-
may, I emerged with a 4-foot stuffed os-
trich—which later I tossed overboard when
we sailed into Yokohama harbor.
That six-month trip around the world on
the eve of World War II is no doubt what led
to my later readiness for Teilhard. It
sparked a lasting love affair with the world—
with the Earth, Teilhard would say—and a
deep-seated sense that the world is truly our
stage and the frame in which all the burning
questions of our time must be seen.
I returned to 7th grade as an ardent inter-
ventionist; a presumptuous, know-it-all, po-
litically active boy who wanted America to
join the war to stop Hitler and the Japanese
militarists from conquering the world.
After Pearl Harbor, before entering the
Army Air Corps, I started what grew into the
nation-wide Student Federalist organization
that became an enthusiastic part of the cam-
paign for a union of democracies to win the
war and be a nucleus of a post-war world fed-
eration with power to keep the peace.
When the United Nations was established
without the power to control the atomic
bomb we campaigned to strengthen it and to
establish nuclear control backed by a world
police force. But by then the Cold War was
closing in, and the vision without which we
thought people would perish became distant
and dim.
Then came Teilhard’s books, one by one,
re-lighting the vision of world unity in the
broader context of the Human Phe-
nomenon—and of a Divine Milieu. To our re-
alistic discouragement from the vicious cir-
cle of international power politics, he offered
a different possibility: ‘‘the passionate con-
cern for our common destiny which draws
the thinking part of life ever further onward.
The only truly natural and real human unity
is the spirit of the Earth.’’ This ‘‘sense of the
Earth’’, he prophesied, would become ‘‘the ir-
resistible pressure which will come at the
right moment to unite humanity in a com-
mon passion.’’
And as a scientist, he spoke to the skep-
tics: ‘‘To the common sense of the ‘man in
the street’ and even to a certain philosophy
of the world to which nothing is possible
save what has always been, perspectives such
as these will seem highly improbable. But to
a mind become familiar with the fantastic
dimensions of the universe they will, on the
contrary, seem quite natural, because they
are simply proportionate with the astronom-
ical immensities.’’
One last personal account of Teilhard’s im-
pact. In the presidential campaign of 1960
and for years afterward, I had the privilege
of working with Sargent Shriver, the most
creative social inventor of the 20th century
and a lover of the words of Teilhard. A broth-
er-in-law of President Kennedy, Shriver or-
ganized the Peace Corps and later led Presi-
dent Johnson’s War on Poverty, along the
way launching the domestic Peace Corps, the
Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA),
the forerunner of AmeriCorps; the Job Corps:
Foster Grandparents, Community Action
agencies, and Legal Services for the Poor. On
nights when we worked late I often found
myself staying in Shriver’s suite at the
Mayflower Hotel or in some hotel while trav-
eling to other countries. Each night before
he turned out the lights he would read in his
bed for a while, usually a book of spiritual
import. Often it would be Teilhard de
Chardin and the next morning he would talk
about it on the way to an early mass.
Then in the Presidential campaign of 1972,
after George McGovern asked Shriver to be-
come his running mate, I was helping Sarge
work on his acceptance address. As we were
due to leave and the police motorcade was
revving up, he was still unsatisfied with its
ending. ‘‘I know how to end it,’’ he said, ‘‘It’s
Teilhard de Chardin! I’m going to find the
quote on a plaque in a pile upstairs.’’ We
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.045 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H989
January 22, 2019
physically tried to stop him but he bounded
out and in two minutes, came back with the
plaque. He ended the address with these
words of Teilhard that brought the delegates
to their feet:
‘‘The day will come when, after harnessing
the winds, the tides and gravitation, we shall
harness for God the energies of Love. And on
that day, for the second time in the history
of the world, man will have discovered fire.’’
No one on that day is likely to have forgot-
ten the fire with which Shriver said that
word ‘‘fire’’. Teilhard’s watchwords became
the theme of his Vice Presidential campaign
and recurred again when he ran for the
Democratic presidential nomination in 1976.
And Sargent Shriver practiced what Teilhard
preached, as he went on to help his wife Eu-
nice and son Tim spread Special Olympics to
the far corners of the world.
Let me note that those and many other
words of Teilhard played a significant part in
my own little journey from the Angelican
Episcopal Church of my father to the wider
Catholic Church centered in Rome (as the
world well-observed this week of the Pope’s
funeral)—the church of Teilhard and the So-
ciety of Jesus. As an advocate of civil disobe-
dience of the Gandhian and Martin Luther
King kind on fundamental matters of con-
science I should confess that I find it hard to
fathom the faith it took for Teilhard to ac-
cept the silencing of his most important
thoughts. But we can respect his agonizing
decision to choose what he may have viewed
as ‘‘divine obedience.’’
What does Teilhard’s vision say to politics
today—and to the burning questions of our
times? To the world-wide poverty, including
the poverty of spirit? To the epidemics
sweeping Africa and other places that seem
to be behind God’s back? To the maybe a bil-
lion children who are not learning to read
and go to sleep hungry at night? To all those
suffering violence in the streets or in their
homes, from crime or terrorism or war?
Teilhard’s vision tells us to do everything
in our power to find the ways and means to
harness the energies of love in order to end
as soon as possible the scandal that such
conditions exist anywhere in the world. This
requires We the People of this earth to do in
the political world what wartime America
did with the physical atom; to win the war
scientists, backed by all the necessary re-
sources of our society, worked with fierce ur-
gency to produce the quantum leap and
chain reaction that put in man’s mortal
hands the power to end human life on earth.
Therefore, the burning question, above all
other questions in the political world, is:
How do we crack the atom of civic power and
start a chain reaction of constructive force
to do for peace what man has shown can be
done for war. You may say that is the old
question that vexed the 20th century in its
occasional search for the moral equivalent of
war. For the 21st century, let’s accept
Teilhard’s challenge and set out to discover
the moral and political equivalent of fire.
This Woodstock Forum’s other question:
What is Teilhard’s literary legacy? is not a
burning one, but it brings to mind Gertrude
Stein’s explanation for her famous line: ‘‘A
rose is a rose is a rose.’’ When Gertrude was
asked what in the world was the reason for
such repetition, she said that for thousands
of years poets have been writing about roses,
so often and so sentimentally that the rose
had lost its redness. Her intent, she said, was
to restore redness to the rose.
Teilhard was a far better poet than Ger-
trude Stein, but as I’ve been re-reading him
after many years, it seems to me that his
most repeated metaphor, which he delivered
in a hundred different ways, is indeed Fire—
the fire that will blaze forth when we do dis-
cover how to harness for God and for all
human beings the power of love, and achieve
the unity of man that Teilhard foresaw.
The poet in Teilhard, I think, is seeking, in
politics as in science, philosophy and reli-
gion, to restore to the ancient idea of cre-
ative fire the energy, heat and light that our
divided world so sorely needs. So we can
hope the sparks that Teilhard’s words sent
out will catch fire in the dry tinder of these
times.
‘‘The world is very different now,’’ John
Kennedy began in stating the first propo-
sition of his Inaugural Address. ‘‘For man
holds in his mortal hands the power to abol-
ish all forms of human poverty and all forms
of human life.’’ To follow that proposition
where it leads, we can do no better than to
lift our sights to the perspective and the pas-
sionate concern for our common human des-
tiny that pervades the writings of Teilhard
de Chardin. But we let’s not leave it to hope,
to time, or to Teilhard to discover this fire,
‘‘knowing,’’ as Kennedy said in closing his
summons to a New Frontier, ‘‘that here on
earth God’s work must truly be our own.’’
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, it is
with considerable sorrow that Patti
and I bid farewell to a very dear friend
and an incredible leader who spent his
life fighting for justice, civil justice,
civil rights, and world peace.
Harris Llewellyn Wofford Jr. was born in
New York City on April 9, 1926 and grew up
in Scarsdale, N.Y. with his 2 younger siblings.
Growing up in an upper-middle class family, at
age 11 he had the opportunity to travel the
world with his grandmother in 1938. During
this formative trip, he experienced many of the
defining events of that time including Benito
Mussolini speaking about the League of Na-
tions, the results of Japanese aggression in
Shanghai and the movement of Mohandas
Ghandi in India.
His passion for creating change and fighting
for progress began in earnest. After his return
to the United States, he quickly established
the first chapter of the Student Federalists,
which would later become a central pillar of
what is now Citizens for Global Solutions.
After serving in the Army Airforce, he grad-
uated from the University of Chicago in 1948
and married his fellow student Clare Lindgren.
As the civil rights movement began, Mr.
Wofford quickly became a fervent supporter of
Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. He marched
alongside Rev. King for civil and voting rights
in Selma and, during John F. Kennedy’s cam-
paign for President, Mr. Wofford played a key
role in Kennedy’s efforts that freed Rev. King
from prison—a move that galvanized the civil
rights movement and helped to carry Presi-
dent Kennedy to the White House later that
year.
Following the election, he served as Presi-
dent Kennedy’s special assistant for civil rights
and later served as the head of 2 colleges.
During his time with the Kennedy administra-
tion, he helped to launch the Peace Corp,
which helped to inspire me to enter the realm
of public service as one of the first Peace
Corp officers serving in Ethiopia.
In 1991, Harris became Pennsylvania’s first
Democratic Senator in more that 20 years, by
unseating the former Republican governor and
U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. As
Senator he led the effort that established the
community service program, AmeriCorp and in
2008 introduce then-Senator Barack Obama
before his defining ‘‘A More Perfect Union
Speech’’ that is often credited as the origin of
Obama’s successful campaign for President.
In 1995, he left the Senate and began serv-
ing as Chief Executive at AmeriCorp. Harris
Wofford, a Democratic Senator from Pennsyl-
vania, a university president and a defining
colleague of President John F. Kennedy died
yesterday on the Federal Holiday commemo-
rating the work and vision of Martin Luther
King, a vision that as a lifelong champion of
civil rights he shared. He was 92.
In a 2005 speech commemorating the work
of French philosopher Teilhard de Chardin,
Mr. Wofford in considering the impact of the
invention of nuclear weapons during World
War II said this:
‘‘. . . the burning question, above all other
questions in the political world, is: how do we
crack the atom of civic power and start a
chain reaction of constructive force to do for
peace what man has shown can be done with
war. You may say that is the old question that
vexed the 20th century in its occasional
search for the moral equivalent of war. For the
21st century, let’s accept Teilhard’s challenge
and set out to discover the moral political
equivalent of fire.’’
Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the op-
portunity to talk about the necessity
of reopening our government, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to prop-
erly yield and reclaim time in debate.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it is an
honor to be here tonight, with so much
going on, but it seems, other than some
people rushing to judgment to beat up
on a smiling high school kid with a
sweet disposition, people are still con-
cerned about the border.
In talking to some TSA agents, some
Border Patrol, some of those who are
not getting checks—we are still getting
some calls—I am still hearing from
people, personally, saying: Look, it is
really hurting not to have gotten a
check; and if we don’t get a check, our
next check here in the next week, it is
going to hurt. But we also know how
many American people are hurting be-
cause of an insecure border.
How many people have to die, how
many people have to have their homes
broken into, how many people have to
be hit by drivers that should not be
driving without insurance, without a
driver’s license, without fully under-
standing the laws?
It shouldn’t have to be said, but be-
cause there are so many people who are
quite dense in the liberal media, we
know that everybody who comes into
this country illegally is not out to hurt
America. But what they don’t under-
stand and what some in this country—
thank God, literally, that it is a minor-
ity—don’t understand is that, if you
keep the border as open as it is, then
this country will continue to be more
and more overwhelmed, and we will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.030 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H990 January 22, 2019
lose that great light on the hill that
has helped illuminate so much of the
world through our being the most gen-
erous country in the history of the
world, helping others that couldn’t
help themselves.
But when you do enough damage to a
country, this country—the greatest, I
would continue to submit, in the his-
tory of the world, and that is because
of all races, creed, color, gender. I
mean, we have blessed the world. God
has blessed this world through us.
But as we weaken ourselves by hav-
ing more and more people without re-
gard to the law and we give more and
more of our cities over to being used by
the drug cartels in Mexico, and as we
continue to use Homeland Security—
thank goodness it is to a much, much
lesser extent than during the Obama
administration. But during the Obama
administration, I have said here before,
the Border Patrol says: The drug car-
tels call us at Homeland Security, and
also HHS, their logistics. They get peo-
ple illegally into the country who still
owe more money to the drug cartels,
and they provide them with a piece of
paper with an address, a name some-
times, sometimes a phone number, but
mainly that address.
b 2015
And Homeland Security, sometimes
HHS, they ship them where the drug
cartels need them to be to help finish
out their network through the United
States that will continue to poison our
young people with drugs, 70,000 or so a
year, to their deaths. At some point it
has got to stop.
I was fortunate to be on a trip to the
border. Actually, we all just met there,
down in southern Arizona. I have spent
a tremendous amount of time, all
hours of the day and night, on our
Texas-Mexico border, but I had not
spent time, like I should have, on the
Arizona border. It was quite eye-open-
ing.
They have areas where they do have
some border fence that is making a
world of difference. Like Secretary
Nielsen testified, when we add a wall
barrier, it cuts down illegal immigra-
tion by 90 to 95 percent. They have seen
it in San Diego, El Paso, and some
places in Arizona where there is a mas-
sive fence or barrier. So it was inter-
esting.
Here is something we put up down by
Douglas, Arizona, and we have got this
fence here, and you can see between
these big metal poles—and those go
deep into the ground. These metal, hol-
low pipes are filled with concrete. So it
is not easy to get through those. And
then even if you do, you get over it—
and there is some razor wire. But if you
get over it, then at least to this point
you still have another barrier.
When there are heavy rains, there is
water in there, but then you have got
that to get over, and then you have a
road here that the border patrol drives.
They can see—and I was there—you
can see for a long way. They can come
zipping up, just like we watched them
do near Nogales, Arizona, yesterday.
So it does make a difference. Talking
to the border patrolmen that were pa-
trolling this area, they said: Oh, you
wouldn’t believe what a help this is. It
is a huge help.
Here is another area. This barrier, it
is hard to tell, it looks solid, but you
can see through the wall. Border pa-
trolmen say they actually like to see
through the wall or the fence so they
can see what is on the other side, and,
you know, see what is coming, and it is
very helpful. And this is a great fence—
a great barrier. You can tell a little
better here that, you know, it has got
razor wire.
And they were telling us that that is
something that the National Guard,
that President Trump had sent down—
or not National Guard—our military.
The military has been sent down. Just
in the last 90 days, they put up a tre-
mendous amount of concertina wire
that has made it much more difficult
for people to get over.
So this has been a terrific barrier
until you get up here to the end, and
that is the end of the barrier. They say:
Well, then we have got this Normandy
barrier for vehicles. Well, most of them
aren’t coming in vehicles into the
United States, unless they have real se-
rious drugs. But anyway, this is a
major, major problem.
So I now recognize my friend, who
was down there on the border with me
on this trip that ANDY BIGGS and PAUL
GOSAR helped put together. I yield to
MORGAN GRIFFITH.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I really
want to ask a question. So I guess I
should ask if the gentleman would
yield for a question.
Because if he would put up that slide
where they had the barrier that would
stop the vehicles, I wonder if he had
time yet—because we just got back
to—in fact, I think that might be me in
the picture.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it looks
like—no, it is him because that is his—
nobody else had binoculars that good. I
yield to Congressman GRIFFITH.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate that. We were able to—maybe not
here, but that’s fine.
But just on the other side of that, do
we have a picture of the rope?
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, funny
he should ask. Yes, we just happen to
have the rope. So here is the end of the
barrier right here. It is an impressive
barrier till you get to the end, and then
you have got the rope he was referring
to, and then they have got this barb-
wire fence—pretty sad barbwire, four-
strand, and it is anything but tight.
The only thing that keeps somebody
from crossing our border, you have got
the massive barrier, the concertina
wire, and then you have this little
quarter-inch cord here and kind of a
slipknot that you can undo, and then
pull the gate open and come right
through.
That is one of our brave border pa-
trolmen right there. I won’t give Art’s
full name. But anyway, and the other
thing we saw, there is a trail that goes
right down there. That trail—and I
know Mr. GRIFFITH noticed this—but
that trail doesn’t come down all the
way to the barrier. It leads—and you
can follow it all the way through this
area for miles. It comes right here to
where the cord is instead of where the
big barrier is.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, shock-
ing. I mean, you know, it was shock-
ing. And then the trail, if I remember
correctly, and Mr. GOHMERT can cor-
rect me if I am wrong, but the trail
then goes on up into the hills.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it abso-
lutely does.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Where it makes it
much harder for the border patrol
agents, we heard, to track them down.
So where there is a wall, even if they
get over it somehow, it slows them
down.
The border patrol folks can then spot
them, using some of that electronic
equipment we have talked about,
maybe using their pony patrols, you
know, where they are out on horse-
back, but they can then have a better
chance of catching a substantial num-
ber of these folks.
But where you don’t have that wall/
fence barrier, and you just have a rope
or a little fence—in fact, I know a pic-
ture was taken of it, too—we saw a
rancher, who may not want his picture
out there—but we saw a rancher who
has to be in his seventies, and probably
is in his eighties, who had climbed
under the fence to show that even he,
in his advanced age, could get under
the fence. It was just remarkable.
I mean, did you have the same reac-
tion I did that this was just out-
rageous, and that, clearly, we just have
a line that demarks it, so that if you
are law-abiding, you know that is
where to stop. But the people we are
dealing with are not law-abiders, are
they, sir?
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it was
interesting to hear from the land-
owners down there that, you know,
even up to the 1990s, the people that
came were, you know, mainly people
looking for jobs, and they would put
out food and stuff. The border patrol-
men had confirmed this. We were hear-
ing it from the landowners, and we
were hearing it from the border patrol.
It used to be that when they caught
people, it was the first time they had
been caught. They probably were just
looking for a job in the U.S.
But now, most of the people coming,
other than family units, most of them
have records, criminal records. Not
just in Mexico. Like one that we were
being told about is wanted for murder
in Mexico, but for all kinds of crimes,
including murder in the United States.
And that this has become a common
event. You catch them, you do the fin-
gerprints, and then here comes this big
criminal history, and that that is what
they are getting so much of. That used
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.048 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H991
January 22, 2019
to be an anomaly, and now it is regular
course of business.
I yield to Mr. GRIFFITH.
Mr. GRIFFITH. I would say to the
gentleman that one of the things that
really struck me that I probably didn’t
know or hadn’t heard stories of—a lot
of this was just confirming what I be-
lieved might be going on and bringing
it visually home.
But one of the things that I was as-
tounded with was the residents in the
area who were talking about it—we had
a number of residents we met with—
that the drug runners are bringing the
drugs in, sometimes they are just drop-
ping them off at a GPS site, sometimes
they are handing them off and getting
cash and bringing the cash back, but
they also were looters. So all those
properties along the border have to
worry about home invasions and bur-
glaries and thieving; because there is
nothing to stop them, whatever they
can carry, they are carrying out and
carrying south as well.
You know, if it was folks, that would
be one issue—and I understand that
issue is a big part of it—but if it was
just folks coming north to look for a
better way of life, that would be one
thing. But a huge number of these peo-
ple are coming north with meth-
amphetamine that comes into my dis-
trict, and probably into Mr. GOHMERT’s
as well, with fentanyl, with heroin, and
with marijuana, and they are coming
in with that. They are taking the cash
and anything they can steal back with
them.
And so it is a two-way street, so to
speak. We have got illegal commerce
going both ways through a rope as our
defense for our country, a mere rope,
an inch of cotton thread.
Mr. GOHMERT. It is amazing.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Amazing.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, he
brings up a matter that touched a
memory of what was being said by my
friend—and sometimes people say that
sarcastically—JOHN GARAMENDI is a
friend. He is a good man.
But there were people talking before
us about the drugs and that 90 percent
of the drugs are coming through our
legal ports of entry.
I have been contending for some
time, having spent so much time on
the Texas-Mexico border, we cannot
know how much drugs is coming where.
They are catching more drugs coming
through the legal port of entries. But
there have been all hours—virtually
every night down on that border south
of McAllen, southwest there, where the
border patrol tell us: We know. They
send a group of people across in the
middle of the night; they know we have
to all come to start processing them,
asking the questions, and we know that
is when the big drug shipments come
across, and they know we are tied up.
And how do we know how much
drugs? Nobody can say there is a per-
centage.
I now yield to my good friend, RALPH
NORMAN.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I was
there along with him, and I just want-
ed to emphasize the statement—I don’t
think I will ever forget—from an angel
mom who said: Congressman NORMAN,
a wall won’t stop everyone. No wall
will stop no one.
And put that picture up right there.
What we found on the border was—par-
ticularly where the wall ended where
Mr. GOHMERT showed the rope was.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, this is
a different spot where the wall ended
from the one that we are talking about
a moment ago.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, right.
All along were bottles of water. We
walked up on a sleeping bag. We
walked up on all types of——
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, he
pulled that sleeping bag out, and that
was in the area where the wall stopped,
was it not?
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, exactly.
That is where it stopped. You know,
and in talking with these agents, who
are drastically understaffed, they can’t
do—they can’t chase down everybody
that comes.
I will tell you, every agent we talked
with had no hesitation to run after one
person or run after a group of 10 or
more. And my question to him was:
How do you handle that type? That is
how dedicated they are. That is how
diligent they are. They are sacrificing
their safety.
The other thing I would point out
that you and I saw to show you how de-
ceptive these drug runners are, they
use carpet; they have stitched together
a carpet-type that wraps their feet so
that you can’t tell where they go. You
can’t track them. And that is all along.
You can see where they are going, but
you can’t see the actual footprint that
they are leaving.
The other thing that stuck out to me
that I thought was just amazing were
to talk to the ranchers. That one
rancher had had four home invasions.
Now, think about it. How would you
like to wake up, as he did, in the mid-
dle of the night, with a person dressed
in black staring at his wife? How would
you like, what the sheriff told us—I am
not going to name his name—when his
home—a bounty was put on his head.
He woke up, because he had surveil-
lance, to see four people coming in to
kill him.
b 2030
How would you like to see the rape
trees that you and I saw? Children’s
underwear, clothing, it really is a hu-
manitarian crisis. It is a crisis, as Con-
gressman GRIFFITH mentioned, the
drugs in this country, the photo you
showed where the ropes were, 60 per-
cent of the heroin comes in there, 40 to
60 percent.
So anybody, once you go down
there—and what was sad is when they
said we were some of the few who had.
Our nine were some of the few who
have ever visited the border.
When you put a face with a situation
like we saw with the ranchers, like we
saw with the Border Patrol agents, like
we saw with the Angel Moms—and the
Angel Mom is the one who made the
comment about the wall:
A wall’s not going to stop everyone.
No wall stops no one.
Her husband or her son was killed.
The other Angel Mom we talked to,
an illegal alien came in a store. The il-
legal asked for cigarettes. He gave it.
While he was counting change, he shot
him in the face. These are the type of
real-life stories.
Anybody who says that this thing
isn’t real, go down to the border. You
look at what we saw and I think you
will change your mind. And I think
that now, if we don’t do it now, it will
never happen.
Mr. GOHMERT. If my friend will
yield for a question.
Did you go in the Sasabe little store
there where we stopped?
Mr. NORMAN. I did, Congressman
GOHMERT. And to see what they sell,
bullets for the drug-runners to carry
out.
Mr. GOHMERT. How were those bul-
lets packaged? I had not seen them in
a store like that.
Mr. NORMAN. The bullets were pack-
aged in a small plastic bag.
Mr. GOHMERT. Have you ever seen
bullets for sale in a plastic bag like
that before?
Mr. NORMAN. I have never seen bul-
lets sold like that, and this is what we
are dealing with. This is what we are
dealing with.
Mr. GOHMERT. What was the other
big thing you don’t normally see, but it
took up a whole row there?
Mr. NORMAN. The rations, the Army
MREs.
Mr. GOHMERT. MREs, Meals, Ready-
to-Eat.
Mr. NORMAN. MREs, which was food
that would last for weeks.
And I guess the other thing is these
are professionals. They are armed. The
rations that they carry out, they are
planning to stay there for a long time,
until they get the drugs over, and then
they come back.
It is our duty—we are not doing our
duty to not stop this or make the ef-
fort to stop it.
So, Congressman, I want to thank
you for showing the pictures. What
makes it real is to go down there and
see it. And there is no way you can
make the case that this is not a crisis,
this is not a safety issue, this is not a—
we are in it for the sovereignty of the
country.
Mr. GOHMERT. I hope the gentleman
can stick around and we can talk some
more.
But we have been joined by our friend
from northern California, Congressman
DOUG LAMALFA. I know his friends and
families have endured quite a tragedy
this past year with the fire, but I yield
to the gentleman for such comments as
he might have about our border.
Mr. LAMALFA. Thank you, Mr. GOH-
MERT, for leading this tonight and for
allowing me and some of my colleagues
some time on this.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.050 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H992 January 22, 2019
Yes, coming from California, you
know, we feel the brunt, as any border
State does, especially. But we know it
is pervasive through all 50 States of
this Nation.
What are the ideals of this country,
its founding? We welcome legal immi-
gration. What is so hard about that
concept?
Instead, we get into these euphe-
misms of just immigration or immi-
grants or migrants. And that is the dis-
service that is being done by people out
there who are listening and watching
what we are arguing about here, that
we are somehow all against immigra-
tion or against migrants or evacuees or
refugees, and that couldn’t be further
of from the truth.
You don’t have a sovereign nation if
you don’t have defined borders that we
as a nation set the policy, set what is
going to happen with who is going to
enter, and so it is chaos.
So, Mr. GOHMERT, we could do DACA
after DACA, amnesty after amnesty.
Ronald Reagan, in good faith, back in
1986, sat down and hammered some-
thing out, and the other side did not
adhere to it.
Mr. GOHMERT. What was that some-
thing? He signed off on the amnesty.
What was it that the other side didn’t
provide that they had promised in that
law?
Mr. LAMALFA. A continued effort at
establishing a solid border, a barrier.
Mr. NORMAN talked about this as well.
We are not talking about a solid
fence for all 2,000 miles. We are talking
about a system. We are talking about a
system where the fence makes sense,
where there would be patrols where
you have the type of terrain where you
don’t need to do a whole lot.
So it is a combination, like any other
aspect of—whether it is a sports team,
you know, a football offense, you have
got linemen, quarterback, running
backs, split ends, or even in the mili-
tary situation.
An Army tank by itself is a good
piece of equipment, but you have got to
have people in it. You have to have
people surrounding it. You have to
have air support. It is not that much
different an analogy that you have to
have an overall system that is tailored
to each piece of region there.
So when we have seen our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle, in pre-
vious years, Bill Clinton, right on this
floor, talking about the scourge of ille-
gal immigration in this country—
Barack Obama, Senator SCHUMER down
the hall here, Senator Hillary Clinton,
they have all talked about this, and
others that I am not naming, they have
all talked about the need to do this.
So the question is: What has
changed? What has changed in the last
2 years, 4 years, 5 years, when we, just
as recently as 2013, had funding put in
place in a bipartisan fashion to put
stronger and more border barrier up?
What has changed?
Is it merely because of the election of
Donald J. Trump, and we are all in for
resistance from here till whenever that
Presidency ends, that we have to hold
hostage the entire country to this con-
cept of merely resistance instead of
doing what is right for the border?
This shouldn’t be a partisan issue at
all, and, in the past, it has proven not
to be partisan. It has proven to be what
makes sense for our sovereign border.
And it is so sad and maddening, I
think, for a lot of American people be-
cause here we are right now. The line
has been drawn on this, and we need to
get this done.
Nobody wants to get the government
operations open once again that are
closed, that are being hampered right
now, but there is a combination of
things that need to happen here.
What is so appalling is that this
President has put a lot of different
ideas on the table: a year ago, the four
pillars, and recently, with different
ideas, different combinations. He has
invited every Member of this body to
come down to the White House at one
time or another and sit and talk about
this.
And when the other side roundly re-
jects the opportunity to have a con-
versation, that is what we are supposed
to always try and do, have a conversa-
tion in this body, in this place, where
we are duly elected, to hammer out our
differences.
We come from such diverse back-
grounds and diverse States and diverse
districts. Just California alone, 53 dif-
ferent Members of the House, very di-
verse viewpoints and ideas and geog-
raphy. It is our job to hammer this
stuff out.
Why are Members of this House and
over in the Senate getting away with
roundly rejecting a conversation about
our sovereign borders here, about the
need to have a good steel barrier and
the other combination, the other sys-
tem, parts of the system that make the
whole thing work? It is appalling, and
we need to do better.
Mr. GOHMERT, you were speaking
with Mr. NORMAN and others about
your recent visit. I have also spent
time on the California border, San
Ysidro, and a little bit of time in Ari-
zona as well.
Mr. GOHMERT. Has the gentleman
been there where the fence is or where
the barrier is, like San Diego?
Mr. LAMALFA. The San Diego por-
tion, yes, but not currently, as addi-
tional pieces have been done. I need to
go back again and see how the newest
design is working and such.
But we have had experience at this,
and we see that the stations where peo-
ple are coming through, we have got an
incredible amount of volume being
done, an incredible job by our per-
sonnel there to vet people and vet their
vehicles and make sure that stuff is
not getting through that should not
get through, whether it is drugs or
guns or what have you, and they are
doing an incredible job.
But we are also doing them a dis-
service by making it so overwhelming
for them by not giving them the whole
system and the whole amount of fund-
ing as the President laid out. He wants
to put extra border security personnel,
I think 2,750, as well as the facilities
for those who are coming to meet that
border for medical attention and for
speeding up the process for those who
are seeking asylum.
What is wrong with this package? Or
what is wrong with at least the con-
versation that could be had about well,
if it is a little short in some area, then
talk to the President, talk to all of us
about what needs to be boosted up in
it.
Instead, it is a nonconversation, and
that is what is so appalling for the
American public who are watching
this, who are depending on us to uphold
our oath for the security of this Nation
and of its people.
Mr. GOHMERT. All three of you, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr. GRIF-
FIN, you guys are caring guys, and the
Republicans are often castigated as
being hard-hearted and not caring. But
the stories we have heard from Angel
Families and Angel Moms, I know it
has affected you guys. We have talked
about it.
How anybody can work so hard to get
elected to come to this body and not be
deeply moved by these stories of fami-
lies that are ripped apart because
someone came in illegally and killed a
family member—and I know it is a seri-
ous issue.
We don’t normally abide separating
children from families, even though it
is temporary, but there is a point to
make sure that children are not handed
over to sex traffickers.
But it broke my heart as a felony
judge, and it happens in this country
over and over every single day of the
year, that someone commits a crime
and they are taken away; their chil-
dren are separated from the parent—
the parent goes to jail—because we
don’t believe in incarcerating the chil-
dren for the father’s sins or illegal ac-
tivity or the mom’s. It happens every
day.
So it rings kind of hollow to me when
people start screaming about that and
yet have no compassion whatsoever.
We heard from a lot of Angel Moms, so
many of those who are so derogatory
about Republicans wanting to secure
our borders, but they will not even give
these moms who have lost precious
children a minute of their time to hear
these tragic stories.
One of the stories we heard this
weekend was there was a group of peo-
ple who were being smuggled into the
country, and as we have talked about
before, nowadays, the drug cartels con-
trol every inch of our border from the
south side—and, some might argue,
from our side as well.
There was a wife who was the only fe-
male with the group, and they got to
the border and they spent, I believe it
was, 7 days where the wife was raped by
all the other men; and they would hold
the husband hostage while the men, for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.051 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H993
January 22, 2019
several nights in a row, raped his wife,
and there was nothing he could do
about it.
I mean, how hard-hearted do you
have to be to not want to stop the invi-
tations of the drug cartels to con-
tribute to that kind of activity?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. GRIFFITH) for his
comments.
I hope my friend from California
won’t have to go far because we have
got enough microphones for everybody
here.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, that
was a horrible story. And what was so
interesting was that the people who we
were talking to in that group, some of
them had helped these folks out when
they were found and helped them re-
cover as best they could in that situa-
tion. It was just a horrible situation,
and it was just one of many stories.
My colleague referenced the rape
trees. We heard one of the ranchers tell
us that he was out on his property and
he saw all this women’s underwear, and
he picked up three trash bags full of
women’s underwear. That represents
somebody, each one of those, somebody
who had been raped.
This is a crisis, as you know. It is a
crisis, and it is a crisis of so many di-
mensions that we are not going to be
able to talk about all the different as-
pects.
One of the ranchers said to me: Why
isn’t anybody talking about the envi-
ronment?
It was really interesting. He pointed
up to the mountains, and he said:
Those mountains used to be filled with
Douglas firs.
Whether intentionally or uninten-
tionally, whether it was somebody
building a campfire and was negligent
or whether it was a diversion by the
cartels to pull all the first responders
to one end of the county while they ran
drugs into the other end of the county,
he didn’t know, but they burned down
that mountain, all the trees on the
whole range of mountains.
Mr. GOHMERT. It was over 200,000
acres in one of the fires.
Mr. GRIFFITH. It was.
And he said, you know: That wasn’t
just old growth. That was virgin forest.
Where are the folks who normally care
about the environment? Why aren’t
they saying anything?
And what I found really interesting,
he talked about some of the other envi-
ronmental problems with all the trash
and so forth.
Well, the next day, we were talking
to border security, and the fellow who
was in our car started talking about
how once they put the wall up and
made it more secure, it was amazing. It
just took a few years for the wildlife to
come back.
b 2045
Apparently, where they cross on a
regular basis and are having lay-bys—
that is where they hang out until they
move on to the next camp, and they
leave all their trash and stuff there—a
lot of the wildlife had just disappeared.
But once they started having a fence
like this or the ability to have a road
into certain areas and they cut that
off, all of a sudden, the wildlife started
coming back.
He showed me a picture on his phone
that he had taken of a bear. He said:
That wasn’t here 5, 6, 10 years ago. Now
they are back. We have big cats. We
have bear. It really is amazing.
He didn’t know that, the day before,
I had been talking to a rancher about
similar issues, that it is a real det-
riment to the environment.
Then the other thing that probably
won’t get a lot of attention is that,
even if we are not able to build the wall
everywhere we want, it channels the
folks. Just like we saw on the end of
each wall, we saw several segments and
you could see the paths. What happens
is that you are then channeling the il-
legal immigrants into a particular
area, which makes it easier for the
electronic devices and the agents to get
in there.
If you have the electronic surveil-
lance, you have the walls, or the wall
fence, and you have the border agents
with the supplies and the equipment,
including dogs and horses, et cetera,
that they need, then they know where
there are pinch points where they can
cut off a lot of this. But it will be an
ongoing problem that we will have to
deal with as a Nation.
This year is just a part of it. As we
close in and close off some areas, we
will see other areas where they start
going in, in greater numbers. But we
will start concentrating on where we
can catch more of the drugs coming in.
As my colleague said, the lady had
said you won’t catch them all, but
without a wall, you will not catch any
of them. I think that those are two im-
portant points.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t know how the
gentleman felt about that, but I would
love to hear his opinion on that as
well.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I was
going to ask Congressman NORMAN if
he would reflect. We heard from a lot of
landowners. Individually, we talked to
a number of folks on a separate basis.
But, yes, we see here the end of that
barrier, all you have to do is just go to
the end.
Mr. Speaker, after all the folks we
talked to in the last few days, I would
like to ask Mr. NORMAN his thoughts
about what needs to be done. We have
some of our friends across the aisle
who say we don’t need any kind of bar-
rier. We just need the technical equip-
ment, the cameras, the drones. We
don’t need a wall.
After what he has seen and heard, I
would like to hear his thoughts regard-
ing that.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, specifi-
cally about the drones, we were talking
to one of the agents, and he said: Tell
me one drone that has ever run down
an illegal alien and put him in hand-
cuffs? Drones don’t do that.
Electronic devices alert you. Like
the illegals that we saw at the end of
the day who were near us, the cameras
picked it up. But you have to have a
body, somebody like these brave
agents, to go catch them. That is what
they do.
But it is just words, as far as I can
tell, to anybody who ever witnesses
this.
To hear the ranchers, we asked about
vacations, with all of the crime. When
you see their truck chained in the car-
port, as we saw, because somebody
tried to steal it, we asked how they
take a vacation. He said: Well, we have
to stagger it.
These are older people. They were 70
and up. At this stage of their life, for
them to have to worry about their life,
worry about their property being de-
stroyed? How many waterlines did we
see that were cut? How many fires did
he point to on the mountaintops that
were set fire?
So these people are trying to make
an honest living. Ranchers are some of
the most honest, hardworking people I
know. It is in their DNA. For them to
have to worry about their safety, about
their life, as was described when one of
the ranchers went up to the person who
was hobbling and he got shot and
killed, you know, to hear——
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, that
was a family member of some of the
folks we were with.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, that was
his sister, who could talk about him.
So that is why there is urgency to
this thing. And, you know, go down
there. Like Congressman GRIFFITH
mentioned, this is just a start. The $5.7
billion, it is a start to really get the
job done and add enough fence to help
these agents. If you do it for nothing
else, help these agents so that at least
it is quarantined where they come in.
I compare it to a football game. I
think I mentioned I had a friend of
mine who is deathly opposed to the
wall. I knew he went to the Clemson-
Alabama game, and I knew he had tick-
ets. I said: Did you have a problem?
He said: With what?
I said: Getting into the game.
He said: Oh, no. I had a ticket.
I said: Did you go in at one place?
He said: Yeah, I went in at one place.
We were in line, not for long.
I said: You couldn’t just walk in?
Then he got it. He said: That is dif-
ferent.
I said: Well, wait a minute. If you go
to a football game and have it walled
off where you had to go to a point of
entry, you tell me how that is different
than what we are talking about on this
wall.
He said, and this astounded me: Well,
it wasn’t a concrete wall.
I said: Okay. It was a combination of
metal. It was a combination of posts,
concrete. It was a barrier. How would
you feel if people had just walked in
there and taken your seat and hadn’t
paid for it? What is the difference?
He couldn’t tell me. He could not tell
me, because he couldn’t.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.052 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H994 January 22, 2019
That is what we are talking about
here, but we are talking about human
lives.
Back on that story about the hus-
band who watched the rape, what they
did to him is stabbed him. They
stabbed him in the side as to make a
point that he was to bring the drug
money back and watch his wife get
raped over a 3-day period.
So if anybody can watch that and see
these people, I mean, really.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, that is
right. It was seven people raping his
wife 3 days in a row.
Mr. NORMAN. Three days in a row.
Mr. GOHMERT. Right. That is it.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is the
right thing to do. Now is the time. I ap-
plaud the gentleman for having these
pictures. This brings it to life.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, we
were all taking pictures down there.
I want to go to a point about the
caravans. We all heard about the cara-
vans. We knew that this was a serious
invasion coming. The mainstream, or
lame stream, media was trying to say
it was a manufactured crisis. These
were thousands and thousands of peo-
ple coming to try to invade this coun-
try.
From news reports, it sounded like
they were originally heading to Texas,
but our Governor made it clear he was
going to work with the Federal Gov-
ernment and anybody the President
would send, and we were going to do all
within Texas’ power with Federal help
and the military that was there, to
keep them from coming in. Then we
hear they are heading toward Cali-
fornia, Congressman LAMALFA’s State.
It sounds like this new caravan that
is ginned up may be heading to Cali-
fornia, too. I would appreciate the Con-
gressman’s comments and thoughts
about people heading toward Cali-
fornia. People elected him. Surely,
they can’t be thrilled about an inva-
sion coming like that.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, it is in-
teresting that even Mexico is catching
on to this, because, yes, it is about
twice as many miles to come from
those Central American countries just
to gain entrance to the U.S. If you are
doing it legally at a point of entry,
why wouldn’t you go to Texas and go
through the process?
It is almost double the mileage to
come over toward the California border
from Central America, because Cali-
fornia has a sanctuary-state and a
defy-the-Federal-Government-on-this-
work attitude, and so it is a magnet for
that.
We are seeing, in Tijuana on the
Mexican side of the border there, those
folks are fed up with what is going on
there.
We are doing a disservice. The other
side wants to talk about compassion.
Where is the compassion when you are
basically fooling people into saying:
Oh, I guess we have an open door up
there. Let’s all go do it. Let’s all head
that way and get an opportunity.
You are teasing people, basically.
When we talk about compassion, as
my colleagues mentioned, as a family,
we were talking about this over the
weekend. Rape trees? Articles of wom-
en’s clothing there that are basically
trophies for these people, showing who
is in charge. It is the gangs at the bor-
der? Who are we helping?
Then we talk about the individual
names. I can name some Californians
here. I will go back to Kate Steinle;
Jamiel Shaw; and, more recently, a po-
lice officer from central California,
Ronil Singh, serving honorably, cut
down unnecessarily by people who
shouldn’t be having access to be able to
commit crime in our country.
So where are we? There are a lot of
things we need to do.
California, being very heavily in-
volved in agriculture, high-value crops
that really don’t grow anywhere else in
this country, we need a labor force. We
need a legal labor force. All this goes
hand-in-hand here.
You do the workers a much better
service by having them come here with
legal documentation, with numbers
that we decide as a country, and allow
them to take part in what we see fit.
They have documents; they are safer.
We have so much more we can do by
having a comprehensive approach to le-
gally enforcing our borders and who
comes across. It is better for the people
and better for those who we ask to
come in, and not have them break in.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it is a
great point, just a great point.
We have heard from angel moms,
angel families here, and they complain
that they have tried to talk to our
Speaker and others on the other side of
the aisle, and they are not given time.
But we heard from additional angel
moms and families down in southern
Arizona in the last few days. They
didn’t seem to me to be bitter. They
were just heartbroken, seemed like,
not only for losing their loved one, but
there will continue to be people who
were separated from their children for-
ever, not just for the pendency of a
hearing, but forever, because we
weren’t doing our job that we took an
oath to do.
Congressman GRIFFITH, what about
those meetings struck you?
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I mean,
we heard from so many people, and the
ones who had lost loved ones really
just wanted to try to make a dif-
ference. They just wanted to make a
difference to make their communities
safer, to make it safer for everybody.
They are not going to bring back their
family member, but they want to make
the whole area safer.
They believe that it is a crisis. Every
one of them believed it was a crisis.
One night, we were having dinner,
and a lady who didn’t know we were
from the United States Congress
walked over because she recognized one
of the local officials and said we have
to do something on the border—sponta-
neously. We are just in town having
dinner.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, she
didn’t know who we were.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, she had
no idea who we were until she walked
over and said that and then was invited
to address us: Well, you have some
Members of the United States Congress
here. Why don’t you tell them what
you think we need to do?
There wasn’t any question. These
folks who live right down there on the
border, they believe that the wall,
fence, whatever you want to call that
structure there in your picture, they
believe that that helps, that it is not
the whole equation, but that it is a big
help and that we have to do it.
They were very encouraging to us, to
a person, to continue to work hard to
try to secure that border, to stop this
humanitarian crisis, to stop our secu-
rity crisis, to stop the environmental
crisis.
That one person was adamant that
this is devastating. He was an environ-
mentalist person who really was very,
very concerned about what had hap-
pened to the ecology in his area and to
the environment. He attributes that di-
rectly to the flood of not a handful of
people, but tens of thousands coming
across.
One of the ranchers that we talked
to, their ranch is looking at 10,000 or
more people coming across there every
year.
We are not talking about a trickle.
We are talking about a flood. We are
talking about a crisis.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I know
some on the left try to say, oh, this is
because you are a xenophobe or afraid
of Hispanics. I know this is a general-
ization, but personally, in my opinion,
I think the three things that helped
make America the greatest country in
history were a love of God, a love of
family, and a hard-work ethic.
Generally speaking, when I look at
the Hispanic culture, all my friends,
they have a love of God, tremendous
devotion to family, kind of like a lot of
people in my hometown used to have,
but don’t have.
b 2100
I think the Hispanic culture can help
reinvigorate what made America the
greatest country in the world. I want
those folks coming. But like Congress-
man LAMALFA was saying: Legally. I
know Congressman LAMALFA has got a
lot of agriculture, and it takes a lot of
workers who are willing to get out
there and sweat. I hear it is harder and
harder to find those folks. We know it.
Hispanic folks are some of the hardest
working folks I have ever been around.
But, as Congressman LAMALFA said, it
has got to be legal.
Some people are saying: Well, so
what is it going to take? Why don’t you
throw out there on the table so many
more visas? And my contention is: We
have been through this in ‘86, again
when Clinton was President; how many
times do we have to be fooled?
I keep contending: We secure the bor-
der and we can work this out. We are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.054 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H995
January 22, 2019
already the most generous country in
the history of the world when it comes
to legally allowing people to come into
this country. Nobody gives a million
visas like we do—over a million. But,
even then, we can still get the workers
we need, we can do what we need.
But as long as that border is porous—
it is silly to keep luring more people in
with the hope that they will be given
amnesty before we secure the border,
because then we will see more and
more of the human tragedy that both
gentlemen have been talking about.
California has had its share of human
tragedy at the hands of illegal aliens,
but so has the whole country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend
from California (Mr. LAMALFA) one
more time, and then I would like to
hear from my friend, Congressman
GRIFFITH, before we wrap this up.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman again for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the bottom line, for our
personnel on the border, our Border Pa-
trol folks: this infrastructure helps
them to do their job much easier, with
much less risk. We are talking about
the stadium analogy. Having a focused
effort where they don’t have to run
every mile. They can put one every 10
miles, one officer every 10 miles.
Mr. GOHMERT. By the way, we saw,
last week, a big photograph of a mas-
sive metal barrier around the perim-
eter of the 2016 Democratic National
Convention. Somebody there knows
that walls or fences work when they
are combined with security.
I yield to my friend.
Mr. LAMALFA. Of course they do.
They have worked for millennia. The
argument these days is really very spe-
cious on this.
I throw it right back: How is it com-
passionate to put people at risk with
the magnet this country is, the oppor-
tunity it is, when we are making peo-
ple take horrendous risk, whether it is
the men in the family, their wives,
their children, the separation, and all
the things that happen. That is not
compassion at all. It, indeed, is a hor-
rendous crime against them, by giving
them these mixed signals.
We need to have a legal process for
people who want to come here to work,
who want to come here for education,
whatever it is. I do not see the down-
side of anything they have argued
about here tonight: Mr. GRIFFITH on
the environmental side of it, the wild-
life and all that. There is no downside
to what we are talking about. Once we
put this barrier in place and that infra-
structure is paid for, it will pay for
itself many, many, many times over,
not just in tax dollars, but in people’s
lives, in people’s quality of life, in this
country and those that would approach
it.
There is no negative argument to
this, other than the rhetoric out there
in this resistance movement that is
seeming trying to cash out, I guess, in
terms of elections.
When we are talking about the cen-
sus that is coming up here, the number
of illegal immigrants that are in Cali-
fornia is probably untold.
But here is a distortion that happens
in California: We may have up to three
or more Members of Congress in the
State who are representing a popu-
lation that is not legal here, which is
unfair to the other 49 States and their
representation because they should be
counting citizens and not illegal aliens
in this country in that State.
Mr. GOHMERT. So you are going on
the record as saying, you believe the
question of citizen or noncitizen should
be on the census?
Mr. LAMALFA. Absolutely. I think
anybody with common sense would
look at it that way.
Mr. GOHMERT. Well, that would ex-
clude some of our Federal judges, ap-
parently.
Mr. LAMALFA. I can’t speak for ev-
erything.
Yeah, the common sense seems to be
lost because of this obfuscation, the re-
sistance, and what have you that is a
political end.
Normal people sitting around their
kitchen table would say: Yeah, that is
right, we should count citizens.
We treat people, otherwise, humanely
in this country, we help them. We need
to help people where they come from.
Whether we are talking about the ref-
ugee situation, whether it is in the
Middle East, or in Central America,
help them to thrive where they are,
help them to beat back the things that
are causing the problems there, wheth-
er it is the drug cartel. We shouldn’t
have the magnet of drug use in this
country, but that is a whole other dis-
cussion and battle. But let’s help them
where they are. We are that compas-
sionate country that will do so. We
can’t be a magnet for, basically, an
erased border and think that is going
to provide a solution.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for the time tonight, and my col-
leagues for bringing this argument for-
ward. I hope the American people can
hear that we care about all human life.
We do. But address it in a way that
works as a sovereign nation and for
other nations as well.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman LAMALFA, and I thank
my friend, Congressman NORMAN, who
was here earlier, for their comments.
Mr. Speaker, we ought to be able to
extend that barrier just a little fur-
ther. It is too easy to walk around the
end. Where it is there, it does a lot of
good.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. GRIFFITH) for his
comments.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman BIGGS and Congressman
GOSAR for inviting us out there to see
this, making the arrangements for us
to meet with people who live on the
border, people who work on the border,
people who are trying to secure Amer-
ica’s border and are putting their lives
on the line, and they know that. They
have had friends and family members
who have died. I appreciate them invit-
ing us down. And I appreciate Con-
gressman GOHMERT for having this
time this evening and giving me an op-
portunity to talk about some of the
things I saw. This discussion will con-
tinue because there is a crisis on the
American border.
I yield back.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman GRIFFITH. I appreciate his
wisdom. I always have and always will.
I, again, echo the comments he made
about thanking Congressman ANDY
BIGGS, for arranging this, and PAUL
GOSAR for his help. They are both fan-
tastic Members of Congress from Ari-
zona.
I thank Arizona for sending ANDY
BIGGS and PAUL GOSAR here. They are
invaluable.
I hope we are going to be able to help
Arizona finish—look, the President has
already backed off of the $25 billion re-
quested. I thought that was an exceed-
ingly reasonable request when you look
at the damage occurring to families all
over America, and especially to the
families of people who are being lured
in here to their death or detriment.
Let’s move that fence a little further
along. Let’s get an agreement done so
that we can help out these landowners
and the people who are suffering, so no
more people will be stabbed, even
though they were not American citi-
zens, stabbed and forced to watch your
wife be repeatedly raped. I mean, how
callous do you have to be to say: No,
we don’t want to deal with that prob-
lem; we are going to allow that to keep
going? How callous do you have to be?
As we understand it, the family
member—we have talked to his sister—
he went out there and always provided
water and food to people who were ille-
gally crossing into the United States
and were illegally on their property,
and yet he ends up being shot dead in
the head.
It is time to start doing more to pro-
tect Americans. It is time to start
doing more out of compassion for the
people of Mexico to dry up the tens of
billions of dollars every year going to
the drug cartels. Let’s extend the bar-
riers where we need it. Let’s do the hu-
mane thing for our friends south of the
border, and especially those people to
whom we have taken an oath to pro-
tect their constitution, including
them.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to prop-
erly yield and reclaim time in debate.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. KIND (at the request of Ms.
PELOSI) for today on account of weath-
er affecting travel.
Mr. DEFAZIO (at the request of Ms.
PELOSI) for today on account of med-
ical appointment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.057 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H996 January 22, 2019
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 9 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
January 23, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the fourth quar-
ter of 2018, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ETHICS, U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS, Chairman, Jan. 10, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, JOINT COMMITTEE ON TAXATION, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. KEVIN BRADY, Vice Chairman, Jan. 11, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
55. A letter from the General Counsel, Fed-
eral Energy Regulatory Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule —
Elimination of Form 80 and Revision of Reg-
ulations on Recreational Opportunities and
Development at Licensed Hydropower
Projects [Docket No.: RM18-14-000; Order No.:
852] received January 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
56. A letter from the Senior Counsel, Legal
Division, Bureau of Consumer Financial Pro-
tection, transmitting the Bureau’s final rule
— Civil Penalty Inflation Adjustments
[Docket No.: CFPB-2018-0034] (RIN: 3170-
AA62) received January 15, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
57. A letter from the Director, Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, transmit-
ting a legislative proposal that would clarify
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion’s authority to supervise for compliance
with the Military Lending Act; jointly to the
Committees on Financial Services and
Armed Services.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules. H.
Res. 61. A resolution providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 648) making appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; providing for
consideration of the joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 31) making further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Homeland
Security for fiscal year 2019, and for other
purposes; providing for consideration of mo-
tions to suspend the rules; and waiving a re-
quirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with re-
spect to consideration of certain resolutions
reported from the Committee on Rules
(Rept. 116–4). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. COHEN, Mr. ESTES, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. COLLINS of New
York):
H.R. 693. A bill to amend the Horse Protec-
tion Act to designate additional unlawful
acts under the Act, strengthen penalties for
violations of the Act, improve Department of
Agriculture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. SERRANO, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
ZELDIN, Ms. MENG, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. REED, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr.
NADLER):
H.R. 694. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
40 Fulton Street in Middletown, New York,
as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gilman Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. SERRANO, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
ZELDIN, Ms. MENG, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. REED, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr.
NADLER):
H.R. 695. A bill to redesignate the Hudson
River Valley National Heritage Area as the
Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River Valley Na-
tional Heritage Area, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 696. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 697. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to pay costs relating to the
transportation of certain deceased veterans
to veterans’ cemeteries owned by a State or
tribal organization; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 698. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to report biennially on ac-
tions taken to address areas of concern re-
garding the Department of Veterans Affairs
in the High Risk List of the Government Ac-
countability Office, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 699. A bill to amend the National
Housing Act to require the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to issue
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22JA7.060 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H997
January 22, 2019
guidance to reduce up-front premiums for
FHA-insured mortgages if the capital ratio
of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund ex-
ceeds the statutory limit, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 700. A bill to increase the number of
operational aircraft carriers of the Navy, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 701. A bill to provide for the transfer
of the TARAWA class amphibious ship USS
NASSAU (LHA-4) to Japan; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 702. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to provide for the jurisdiction
of courts of the United States and of the
States over certain foreign entities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 703. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make public the names
and addresses of foreign persons contributing
$50,000 or more to certain tax-exempt organi-
zations and to require disclosure of foreign
campaign contributions; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 704. A bill to safeguard certain tech-
nology and intellectual property in the
United States from export to or influence by
the People’s Republic of China and to protect
United States industry from unfair competi-
tion by the People’s Republic of China, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Financial Services, the Judiciary,
Foreign Affairs, and Oversight and Reform,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. STEFANIK,
and Mr. STIVERS):
H.R. 705. A bill to authorize the Adminis-
trator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration to utilize the security service
fee to pay Transportation Security officer
salaries during a lapse in appropriations for
the Transportation Security Administration,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. ESHOO,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr. CICILLINE):
H.R. 706. A bill to strengthen transparency
and accountability within the Federal Gov-
ernment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on the Judiciary,
Ways and Means, and House Administration,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr. BEYER,
Ms. ADAMS, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. DESAULNIER, and Mr.
GARAMENDI):
H.R. 707. A bill to require the Bureau of
Economic Analysis of the Department of
Commerce to provide estimates relating to
the distribution of aggregate economic
growth across specific percentile groups of
income; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama,
Mr. BIGGS, Mr. COLE, and Mr. POSEY):
H.R. 708. A bill to require States to report
information on Medicaid payments to abor-
tion providers; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. POSEY (for himself and Mr.
GARAMENDI):
H.R. 709. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to provide statutory authority
for the Office of Consumer Affairs and Dis-
pute Resolution Services of the Federal Mar-
itime Commission, to increase public aware-
ness and understanding of ocean shipping
services agreements and such Office, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 710. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide pay to employees ex-
cepted from furlough during a Government
shutdown, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
LOEBSACK):
H.R. 711. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study and submit a report on filing require-
ments under the Universal Service Fund pro-
grams; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.J. Res. 31. A joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for the De-
partment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.J. Res. 32. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to give States the authority to
repeal Federal rules and regulations when
the repeal is agreed to by the legislatures of
two-thirds of the several States; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself and Mr. NEAL):
H. Res. 62. A resolution honoring the 100th
anniversary of Ireland’s First Dáil; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H. Res. 63. A resolution recognizing the Do-
minican community’s presence and contribu-
tions to Hamilton Heights, Washington
Heights, and Inwood; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H. Res. 64. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of a Juan Pablo Duarte Day;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H. Res. 65. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Dominican Heritage
Month; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself
and Mr. NADLER):
H. Res. 66. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the obligation of the Office for Civil
Rights of the Department of Education and
the Civil Rights Division of the Department
of Justice to enforce title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and its implementing reg-
ulations, and expressing the sense of the
House of Representatives regarding the obli-
gation of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development to ‘‘build inclusive and
sustainable communities free from discrimi-
nation’’, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Education and Labor, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 693.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. 1, § 8, cl. 3;
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 694.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. I, Section 8
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 695.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. I, Section 8
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 696.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the U. S. Constitu-
tion grants Congress the power to ‘‘lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
defense and general Welfare of the United
States.’’
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 697.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 698.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 699.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 700.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 701.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 702.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 703.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L22JA7.100 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H998 January 22, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 704.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 705.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 and Article I,
Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 706.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 707.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8.
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 708.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 709.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, which grants Congress
the authority ‘‘To make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 710.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof..
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 711.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion (clauses 3), which grants Congress the
power to regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.J. Res. 31.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law) . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States) . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.J. Res. 32.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article V of the U.S. Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 8: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
BASS, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, and Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ.
H.R. 24: Mr. CLOUD, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
HAGEDORN, Mr. HUDSON, and Mr. WILLIAMS.
H.R. 31: Mrs. LOWEY and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 38: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 51: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. ROUDA, and Mr.
ROSE of New York.
H.R. 56: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. SOTO, and Mr.
DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 94: Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 95: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. CROW, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr.
BANKS.
H.R. 96: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 120: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 125: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. NADLER, and
Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 145: Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 151: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 155: Mr. OLSON and Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 180: Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 186: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 197: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 211: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 230: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 275: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 280: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas.
H.R. 295: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 296: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 301: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois and
Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 305: Mr. GOHMERT and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 310: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 328: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 339: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 341: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 350: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 353: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina and
Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 360: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 365: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 367: Mr. HARRIS, Mr. SABLAN, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. DELGADO,
Mr. STAUBER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, and
Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 372: Mr. RYAN, Mr. RUIZ, and Ms.
WATERS.
H.R. 413: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 415: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 416: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 419: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 421: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 439: Mr. LUCAS and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 453: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 465: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 473: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 479: Mr. JONES, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. PALMER, and Mr.
BUCHANAN.
H.R. 487: Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 491: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 502: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 510: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. ROUZER, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. VELA, and Mrs.
WALORSKI.
H.R. 511: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 535: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 540: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Ms.
BONAMICI.
H.R. 545: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 553: Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. TIMMONS, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puer-
to Rico, Mr. TURNER, Mr. BACON, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. BRADY, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. MAST,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. VELA, and
Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 555: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Ms. SHALALA, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 557: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
MCGOVERN, and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 562: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 570: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 587: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. COOK, and
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 592: Mr. JONES.
H.R. 611: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. BANKS, Mr. ROY, and Mr.
BABIN.
H.R. 615: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 617: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 622: Mr. FORTENBERRY and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 628: Mr. CURTIS and Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 647: Mr. TONKO, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 650: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 653: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 657: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SABLAN, and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 658: Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 661: Mr. ROY and Mr. RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 664: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 671: Mr. JORDAN and Mr. CARTER of
Georgia.
H.R. 676: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. KEATING, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 683: Mr. SOTO.
H.J. Res. 2: Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
FOSTER, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.J. Res. 8: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.J. Res. 12: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.J. Res. 16: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.J. Res. 29: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H. Res. 23: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Ms. FRANKEL.
H. Res. 33: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, and Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 39: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H. Res. 44: Mr. TIMMONS.
H. Res. 47: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. YOHO.
H. Res. 49: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr.
HUIZENGA.
H. Res. 58: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON, Mr. TAKANO, Ms.
SHALALA, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.009 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H999
January 22, 2019
MCNERNEY, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
NORCROSS, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Miss RICE
of New York, Mrs. DINGELL, and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI.
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. YARMUTH
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on the Budget in H.R. 648 do
not contain any congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MS. ROYBAL-ALLARD
H.J. Res. 31, making further continuing ap-
propriations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, does not
contain any congressional earmarks, limited
tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as de-
fined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA7.016 H22JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S317
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2019 No. 13
Senate
The Senate met at 1 p.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable RICK
SCOTT, a Senator from the State of
Florida.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
God of endless mercy, You alone hold
power over the nations. We humbly ask
that You may soften our hearts so that
we might see the path away from dis-
cord and toward unity. As hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers brace for
another painful payday, remind our
lawmakers that they can ease the pain.
Lord, in this hour of need, we cry out
to You and ask You to send Your wis-
dom into this Chamber so that our
Senators might comprehend and act in
accordance with Your will.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 22, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable RICK SCOTT, a Senator
from the State of Florida, to perform the du-
ties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida thereupon as-
sumed the Chair as Acting President
pro tempore.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 268
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due a second reading.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will read the title of
the bill for the second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 268) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Objection having been heard, the
bill will be placed on the calendar.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
here is what happened this weekend
with respect to the continuing dis-
agreement over funding the govern-
ment. Two things happened over the
weekend.
On Saturday, the Senate was in ses-
sion, and Members of both parties came
to the floor to speak about the urgent
need for a bipartisan compromise to re-
open the Federal Government for the
sake of Federal workers who need cer-
tainty, and for the sake of the Amer-
ican people who need their Nation’s
government fully online.
Also on Saturday, President Trump
rolled out a bold, comprehensive offer
to do just that. It would break through
this stalemate and would reopen gov-
ernment swiftly and deliver on a num-
ber of other policy priorities that are
seen as important on both sides of the
aisle.
That is where we are on day 32 of this
partial government shutdown. That is
where we are as this new week begins.
We have heard Members of Congress on
all sides demanding a resolution to the
impasse and a plan to quickly restore
full funding to the Federal Govern-
ment. We now have a plan from the
President that would do exactly that,
and quickly, while incorporating both
the bipartisan work of the Appropria-
tions Committee and bipartisan pro-
posals on current immigration issues.
The opportunity to end all of this is
staring us right in the face. That is
why we will vote on this legislation on
the Senate floor this week. All that
needs to happen is for our Democratic
friends to agree that it is time to put
the country ahead of politics, take
‘‘yes’’ for an answer, and vote to put
this standoff behind us.
To be clear, the proposal outlined by
President Trump that we will consider
in the Senate is the only proposal be-
fore us that can be signed by the Presi-
dent and immediately reopen the gov-
ernment.
First and foremost, it is the only pro-
posal that would reopen the govern-
ment fully and immediately. But it is
not merely a continuing resolution. It
wouldn’t kick the can down the road.
Instead, it would fulfill Congress’s re-
sponsibilities—without footnotes, with-
out caveats, without hitting the snooze
button. This measure would wrap up
last year’s historic progress on appro-
priations. It would pass all seven re-
maining regular-order funding bills and
deliver supplemental funding for dis-
aster recovery.
Importantly, it is also the only pro-
posal that would deliver a comprehen-
sive investment in our Nation’s border
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.000 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S318 January 22, 2019
security. To be clear, that is com-
prehensive by the standards of Border
Patrol experts themselves—the men
and women actually on the ground.
The bill would provide funding for
each of the CBP’s top 10 priority in-
vestments for border security, includ-
ing a substantial investment in en-
hanced surveillance technologies, fund-
ing for the recruitment and training of
750 new Border Patrol agents, and $5.7
billion for the construction of the
physical barrier along the highest pri-
ority areas of the southern border.
In addition to these measures—simi-
lar to the ones that earned strong bi-
partisan support in the past—the legis-
lation would take significant steps to
modify certain areas of immigration
policy. For example, it would grant 3-
year lawful status for certain currently
enrolled DACA recipients and individ-
uals under TPS. These are areas where
congressional Democrats have ex-
pressed vocal interest. Now they are in-
cluded in a comprehensive proposal to
open the government, fulfill our prom-
ise to the Federal employees, and ad-
dress the humanitarian and security
crisis at our southern border.
It is a proposal that the President
will support. As I have stated consist-
ently over the past month, that fact
will earn it consideration in the Sen-
ate. A fully reopened Federal Govern-
ment. Certainty and stability for Fed-
eral employees once again. The bipar-
tisan appropriations legislation this
body worked out together. The full in-
vestment in border security that the
experts on the ground say they need.
Changes to our immigration policies
that are similar to the ones Democrats
themselves have been fighting for in
the past.
To reject this proposal, Democrats
would have to prioritize political com-
bat with the President ahead of Fed-
eral workers, ahead of DACA recipi-
ents, ahead of border security, and
ahead of stable and predictable fund-
ing. Is that really a price Democrats
want to pay to prolong this episode,
which they say they want to be over
and done with?
Is their plan truly to send Federal
workers, DACA recipients, Customs
and Border Patrol, and all Americans
under the bus just to extend this run of
political theater so they can look like
champions of the so-called resistance?
That is what some leading Democrats
tried to assert right out of the gate, be-
fore they had even studied the Presi-
dent’s new proposal. Speaker PELOSI
came out right away and tried to rally
her troops. She immediately described
the President’s proposals as ‘‘unaccept-
able.’’ That is not exactly surprising,
considering that just a few weeks ago,
the Speaker went out on a limb and de-
clared that physical border security is
on its face ‘‘an immorality.’’
Not every Democrat seems to see it
that way. And how could they? One
Democrat from the State of Wash-
ington admitted that ‘‘the wall is not
in itself a bad idea . . . it’s been done.’’
Another from Illinois asserted: ‘‘If we
have a partial wall, if we have fencing,
if we have technology used to keep our
border safe, all of that is fine.’’
One of the Speaker’s fellow Members
of the California delegation said: ‘‘We
will support border security . . . all of
its elements, including fences.’’
This is just a small sampling of
House Democrats’ actual views about
the merits of border security.
These quotations don’t even begin to
touch all of the Democrats’ demands
that we reopen the government right
away and their past calls to bring more
certainty to individuals affected by
DACA and TPS.
On one side of the scale, we have all
of my Democratic colleagues’ declara-
tions that we must reopen the rest of
the Federal Government and get Fed-
eral workers their paychecks. We have
their statements and past votes that
show they believe securing our border
with some physical barriers is a good
thing. And we have their stated desire
to help out a number of individuals
with a more certain immigration sta-
tus. That is one side of the scale. All
that is on the other side is the far-left
political animus for the current occu-
pant of the White House.
It seems to me it is about time to get
serious. Even the Washington Post’s
editorial board, which is no fan of the
President’s and does not support every
piece of this compromise proposal, had
this to say about Democrats’ outright
refusal to negotiate. This is the Wash-
ington Post:
To refuse even to talk until the govern-
ment reopens does no favors to sidelined fed-
eral workers and contractors. . . . A measure
of statesmanship for a member of Congress
now is the ability to accept some disappoint-
ments, and shrug off the inevitable attacks
from purists, if it means rescuing the lives of
thousands of deserving people living among
us.
The Washington Post.
If even the Post believes my friends
the Democratic leaders’ total refusal to
negotiate has grown very stale, you
have to believe many of their own
Members must be starting to feel the
same way.
The President has made a com-
prehensive and bipartisan offer that
would accomplish everything Demo-
crats have said needs to be accom-
plished right now, immediately. It is a
strong proposal. It is the only thing on
the table, and later this week, we will
vote on it.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to S. 1, which
the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
Trump shutdown is now in its 32nd day.
Essential government services are
straining under the lack of resources—
airport security, food safety, our Fed-
eral courts, our national parks. The
economy is taking a serious hit. It was
even revealed today that FBI inves-
tigations—law enforcement—are being
curtailed, and, of course, 800,000 public
servants who are dedicated to their
jobs and their country continue to lan-
guish without pay.
The personal financial crisis Presi-
dent Trump is inflicting on these patri-
otic Americans is worsening by the
day. He is hurting the 800,000 dedicated
public servants, the millions who de-
pend on them, and the entire country.
This must stop. The government shut-
down must end. President Trump and
Leader MCCONNELL need to come to
their senses and reopen the govern-
ment. Instead, over the weekend, Presi-
dent Trump made a televised address
to outline an immigration proposal
that is going nowhere fast.
It is clear that the President has re-
alized he has put himself and the coun-
try in an untenable position. Everyone
knows the President said he would be
proud to shut down the government.
Everyone knows that he and Leader
MCCONNELL are the only obstacles to
opening it back up. Across the board,
the polling shows it. Even a good
chunk of Republicans is getting disillu-
sioned with the President and the Re-
publican Senate because they persist in
keeping the government shut down be-
cause they demand that they get their
way or else. The leader’s attempts—
that I just heard on the floor—to blame
the Democrats for the shutdown are fu-
tile. They are so far from reality that
no one takes the leader seriously when
he says it. The American people know
President Trump is responsible for the
shutdown, and now they have learned
Leader MCCONNELL is a coconspirator
in the shutdown.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.002 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S319
January 22, 2019
In his realizing he is hurting the pub-
lic and hurting the economy and in the
underlining of the fact that his Presi-
dency has far too much chaos and too
little order, direction, and certainty,
the President has had to make a pro-
posal to try to shake things up. It is
not a good-faith proposal. It is not in-
tended to end the shutdown. The Presi-
dent’s proposal is one-sided, harshly
partisan, and has been made in bad
faith.
The President single-handedly can-
celed DACA and TPS protections. He
did it himself, on his own, a while
back. Now the offering of some tem-
porary protections in exchange for the
wall is not a compromise—it is more
hostage-taking. When the President
says: ‘‘I will give you DACA and TPS
partially’’—even though he created the
problem on his own—‘‘in exchange for
the wall,’’ it is like bargaining for sto-
len goods. The President didn’t offer
the DACA protections in good faith.
The President’s team sold the DACA
protections as the BRIDGE Act—a
temporary fix originally proposed by
Senators DURBIN and GRAHAM. It turns
out the actual legislation is even more
limited than the BRIDGE Act and
would barely restore the protections
that President Trump himself took
away.
The New York Times reported that
Stephen Miller, the architect of the
President’s harshest policies on illegal
immigration, intervened to narrow the
DACA proposal as much possible. When
Stephen Miller is crafting the policy,
you can be darned sure it is not a com-
promise.
Worst of all, we found out this morn-
ing that the legislation includes in-
credibly partisan changes to our asy-
lum system so as to make it nearly im-
possible for migrants to claim asylum
at our border. This is a dramatic
change in what America has been all
about—a dramatic turning around from
what America has always had as its
symbol—the Statue of Liberty. The
asylum changes are a poison pill, if
there ever were one, and show a lack of
good faith that the President and now
Leader MCCONNELL have in trying to
make a proposal.
The President and his team have
tried to spin this proposal as a reason-
able compromise with there being con-
cessions to the Democrats. That defies
credulity. Nothing could be further
from the truth. There were no serious
negotiations with the Democratic lead-
ers or any Democrat to produce this
proposal. Let me say that again. There
were no serious negotiations with the
Democratic leaders or any Democrat to
produce this proposal. The President
didn’t ask what the Democrats needed
in a bill to achieve our support. He
simply laid his proposal down on the
table and proclaimed it a compromise.
You can’t have a compromise when
one side declares: This is what we
want, and this is what you want. You
can’t have a compromise when one side
is determining not only what it wants
in the bill but what we want in the bill
without even seriously negotiating
with us. That is not how negotiating
works. That is not the ‘‘art of the
deal.’’ What we have here is just an-
other one-sided, partisan proposal from
the President.
Contrary to the President’s claims, it
hardly represents a softening of his po-
sition. If anything, it is even more rad-
ical. First, President Trump said: Give
me the wall or I will shut down the
government. Then President Trump
said: Unless you give me the wall, I
will keep the government shut down.
Now President Trump is saying: Give
me the wall, and make radical changes
to legal immigration or I will shut the
government down.
No one can call this new effort a
compromise. The President’s proposal
is just wrapping paper on the same par-
tisan package and hostage-taking tac-
tics. When you take off the wrapping
paper, it is the same partisan, narrow,
unacceptable package that cannot pass
the House and that cannot pass the
Senate.
So far, there is only one piece of leg-
islation that has a chance of arriving
at the President’s desk, and that is for
the Senate to take up and pass any of
the appropriations bills that have al-
ready been passed by the House. These
bills are noncontroversial, and there
are no surprises or poison pill riders. In
essence, what is in those bills has been
supported by Republicans already, and
each of them would reopen the govern-
ment and allow us to continue our dis-
cussions on border security. The sooner
Leader MCCONNELL allows a vote on
those bills, the sooner we can end this
pointless shutdown and reopen the gov-
ernment.
President Trump and Leader MCCON-
NELL, the American people and 800,000
workers are asking and waiting for you
to act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
TANF EXTENSION ACT OF 2019
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 430, which was received
from the House.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the bill by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 430) to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through June 30, 2019.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. BOOZMAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. BOOZMAN. I know of no further
debate on the bill.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. If there is no further debate, the
bill having been read the third time,
the question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 430) was passed.
Mr. BOOZMAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Continued
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.J. RES. 1
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 6, H.J. Res. 1,
making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland
Security. I further ask that the joint
resolution be considered read a third
time and passed and that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MCCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
Mr. KAINE. Thank you.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia is recognized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss the continuing effects of the
shutdown of part of the government on
American workers and the American
public.
I want to begin by discussing the ef-
fect of the shutdown on the Coast
Guard. Following that, I will talk
about a visit that I actually just made
to a restaurant at 7th and Pennsyl-
vania Avenues that was opened for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.003 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S320 January 22, 2019
purposes of offering free food to Fed-
eral employees and their families dur-
ing the shutdown. Finally, I will ad-
dress the proposal offered by the Presi-
dent on Saturday to reach an agree-
ment on border security and immigra-
tion issues.
To begin with, the Coast Guard. The
Coast Guard is a branch of the U.S.
military with a proud history. There
are 42,000 active members of the Coast
Guard. There are 7,500 reservists, 8,500
civilian employees, and nearly 50,000
Coast Guard retirees. All are affected
by the shutdown, most working with-
out pay, and others, particularly civil-
ians, are furloughed without pay. In
addition, the shutdown jeopardizes
payments to the 50,000 Coast Guard re-
tirees.
Virginia has a significant Coast
Guard presence, especially in Hampton
Roads and Northern Virginia. Vir-
ginians perform all of the missions
that the Coast Guard is entrusted to
perform—search and rescues, drug
interdictions, military missions, and
law enforcement. The Coast Guard
Honor Guard, which covers funerals
and ceremonial occasions all over the
world, is based in Virginia, and so is
the unit that provides IT support for
Coast Guard functions, including cut-
ters that are currently at sea, like the
USS Bertholf, which deployed out of Al-
ameda, CA, on Sunday.
As the Presiding Officer knows—
sometimes it is a little bit confusing
not just to the public but even to the
military—the Coast Guard is unique in
the shutdown because they are a
branch of the military, but they are
budgeted through the Department of
Homeland Security, not the Depart-
ment of Defense.
DOD was funded by the work that
this Senate, the House, and the Presi-
dent did through appropriations bills
that were signed earlier in the year. So
every other branch of the military is
currently funded; the DHS, however, is
not funded. So the Coast Guard is the
one military branch that is not being
paid.
This is creating some enormous—
enormous—issues that my Coast Guard
members in Virginia have been sharing
with me. Just one, for example, is the
USS Bertholf, which is the Coast Guard
cutter that deployed Sunday out of Al-
ameda, CA, on a military mission as
part of PACOM in the Western Pacific.
So the traditional going-away event,
where everyone in the Coast Guard is
deploying for multiple months, and
their families are there, and they are
saying good-bye to their families—but
for the families who live in and around
Alameda, it is not necessarily cheap.
They are going to have to keep paying
bills—rent and other things—while
their Coasties, as they call themselves,
are deployed. Yet they are not being
paid. Even though this cutter will be
involved in missions together with
Navy ships where sailors are being
paid, the Coasties are not being paid.
You can imagine—and this has been
described by my Coast Guard members
in Virginia—that there are some siz-
able equity issues in this. The Coast
Guard likes to recruit among those
who want to volunteer to serve their
country, and they have said that they
have been able to recruit even-steven
with the Marines and the Navy and the
Army and the Air Force. They can re-
cruit even-steven. They offer a lot of
similar opportunities to serve and
similar abilities to advance in rank, so
they feel that in recruiting for IT pro-
fessionals or others, they can do their
very best. However, something like
this really affects their ability to re-
cruit.
As is well known, in a shutdown, the
DOD is likely to be funded. All of the
other branches of the military will be
funded, but the Coast Guard will not
be. It affects recruitment significantly,
and it affects retention.
I have heard a number of stories from
Coast Guard members in Virginia. Just
this morning, someone who is a young
coast guarder in their first 2 years said
this; this is a direct quote:
I skip dinners now so I can buy food for my
dogs. I have dogs. I care about my dogs. To
buy dog food is important for them, and so I
will do breakfast and lunch, but I skip din-
ners now to buy food for my dogs.
I had two Coast Guard members tell
me about challenges with paying rent—
one in the private sector and two, in-
teresting enough, are living on mili-
tary bases. Let me describe each.
Northern Virginia is not a cheap
place to live. There is a Coast Guard
member in Northern Virginia, and
when the shutdown started and he was
not being paid, he went to his landlord
and said: Landlord, can you give me an
extension? I am serving my country in
the Coast Guard.
The landlord, a regional firm that
has many apartments, came back and
said, in an effort that kind of sounded
friendly: Listen, we will let you pay
half of the month’s rent on the 15th
and half at the end instead of one big
rent check a month. We will do that,
but you have to agree to rewrite your
lease to allow us to evict you after 15
days rather than after 30 days.
He said: Look, I am a young guy. I
don’t know that much, but I have a
grandfather in the real estate business.
I showed him this proposal, and he said
‘‘Hold on a second. It would probably
be better if you keep your current lease
and try to even borrow money from
family than to sign an amendment of
your lease allowing you to be evicted
after 15 days.’’
I think the Presiding Officer and I
would say: What kind of landlord would
do this? What kind of landlord would
take somebody serving their country
and try to accelerate the ability to
evict them because of the shutdown?
That is, in fact, happening, and it is
not a small landlord either.
That one surprised me, but I will say
there was another one that surprised
me more. Two of the Coast Guard
members I had visited with in Northern
Virginia live on military bases. One
lives in Quantico in military housing,
and one lives in Fort Belvoir, the Army
base in Fairfax County, in military
housing. So you would think that this
landlord would be a more under-
standing landlord than maybe a private
sector landlord, but when the shutdown
happened, in each instance, they went
to their landlord and said: Hey, we are
being shut down. We are not being
paid.
The response was: What do you mean
you are not being paid? The Marines
are being paid. The Army is being paid.
You are living on a military base, and
everybody is being paid. What do you
mean you are not being paid? You have
to pay your rent.
The military, which is in charge of
military housing on these bases, was
not aware that because the Coast
Guard comes up through DHS, they are
not being paid. So they are having
trouble with their landlords, even
though their landlords are part of the
military and should understand this.
That same challenge is affecting one
of the servicemembers whose child is in
a child development center on the base
at Quantico. Not being able to pay—
you would think that a military child
development center might understand,
but, in fact, that is not the case.
Other Coast Guard members have
told me about an additional challenge.
The Coast Guard relies on civilians,
just as all of our other military
branches rely on civilians, and the ci-
vilians are hit very hard by the fur-
lough.
At one facility in Virginia, civilians
are in charge of maintaining more than
40 buildings that are old and need some
TLC. Boilers that need work in Janu-
ary and other physical infrastructure
that has needs—that work is done by
private contractors who are fur-
loughed, so that work, which is critical
to their being able to operate the in-
stallations, is hard to get done.
The IT functions of the Coast Guard
take advantage of the civilian exper-
tise of people in Northern Virginia too.
One Coast Guard member described a
job offer they extended to somebody to
come work for the Coast Guard. They
made the job offer just a day or two be-
fore the shutdown happened, so now
they can’t hire the individual.
They are trying to convince the indi-
vidual: Please, hang on; don’t take an-
other job. IT jobs are plentiful in
Northern Virginia, but don’t take an-
other job. Wait for us.
Well, wait for how long?
I don’t know for how long.
They are worried that they are going
to lose a critical employee.
One of the Coast Guard individuals I
talked to basically put it this way: ‘‘It
is embarrassing. It is psychologically
embarrassing. We signed up to help
others, not beg for charity at food
banks or restaurants for Federal em-
ployees’’—and just talked about how
hard it is.
In a way, we should all be willing to
ask for help. We all need help in our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.005 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S321
January 22, 2019
lives. But somebody who has signed up
and their goal is to help others—they
were just being candid in saying that it
is really hard to go ask others for help,
for food.
When the Coast Guard can’t do mis-
sions or when they can’t do some of the
other functions they are supposed to
do—the Honor Guard can’t go to funer-
als at Arlington or other occasions—
then those jobs fall heavier on the
other services. So they talk about not
just the degradation of their own work
but the fact that others have to pull
extra weight for them.
Here is what a Coast Guard employee
said to me: I am paid as an officer to
motivate and to lead. That is what offi-
cers do, we try to motivate and to lead.
I shouldn’t have to stand before a
group of Coasties and offer a class on
how to file unemployment insurance.
Yet that is something that he is now
being told that he has to do.
So many of the Coast Guard members
mention what other Federal employees
say—almost a cliche line that I am
hearing from everybody: I guess I will
figure it out for myself, but I worry
about my shipmates. I guess I will fig-
ure it out for myself, but I worry about
someone else. So many of the Federal
employees are struck.
Finally, a general question: Why
would anyone sign up if they knew
they would be treated this way?
Some of the Coast Guard members
authorized me to use their names and
let me tell a few of their stories with
their first names attached before I
move into talking about my visit to
the pop-up restaurant just seven blocks
from here.
Katherine from Fairfax County:
I am directly affected by this senseless
government shutdown. I retired from the
U.S. Coast Guard in 2006. Since the U.S.
Coast Guard is an organization of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, all U.S.
Coast Guard personnel (active duty, civilian
employees, reservists, and retirees) are being
inflicted with undue financial hardship and
stress. Today, I went to my local [credit
union] branch office to enroll in a 0% APR
Government Shutdown Assistance Program.
Admittedly, I was embarrassed and saddened
to have to take this action to maintain some
sense of personal financial health and secu-
rity. My heart goes out to my brothers and
sisters of the [U.S. Coast Guard] that are
currently on active duty, working without
pay, and supporting a family. This is our re-
ality today.
Lisa from Ashburn:
My husband works for the Coast Guard and
is required to work without pay. We suffered
a house flood during Hurricane Matthew that
wiped out our savings and have a daughter in
college. Not sure how we can manage if we
miss more than one paycheck, as we also as-
sist my mother, who has had a stroke. Pray-
ing that this is over sooner than later.
Sue from Loudoun County:
My Coast Guard son and his family live in
Kodiak, Alaska, and are not getting paid.
Senator MURKOWSKI gave a speech
about Kodiak and the Coast Guard
presence in Kodiak on the floor on Sat-
urday.
Risking his life as a rescue pilot with no
pay is unpatriotic as well as dangerous for
the country. These men and women work for
us, to protect our country. They should be
paid and not told to have a yard sale to
make due.
Mary from Williamsburg:
My husband has worked tirelessly as a
member of the all-volunteer Coast Guard
Auxiliary. He teaches Safe Boating classes
and has used his boat as a vessel to assist in
search and rescue in Sector Hampton Roads.
Now with the shutdown, he cannot do any of
the boat safety activities to help the Coast
Guard keep our waters safe. It is ridiculous
to shut down the federal government—but it
is dangerous to have curbed the lifesaving
activities of the Coast Guard and their in-
valuable volunteer auxiliarists!
He cannot volunteer. He cannot vol-
unteer because of the shutdown.
Trinity from Suffolk:
My father works on the US Coast Guard
base in Portsmouth, VA. Even though my fa-
ther hasn’t gotten a paycheck, Hampton
University still wants the payments for my
tuition. Just because his paychecks have
stopped doesn’t mean our bills have.
Gary from Chesapeake:
My son is a Chief in the Coast Guard. For
the past 19 years, he went to sea to protect
our coastline, enforce our laws, and rescue
those in need. Over the years he missed
countless holidays, birthdays, and anniver-
saries with family and friends. Now, there’s
no respect for his sacrifices and service.
Finally, Samantha from Herndon:
My husband is a civilian employee of the
Coast Guard. We are having to pull money
from savings and significantly change our
spending habits just to make sure we can
make it through the month. We worry about
paying our mortgage and keeping the heat
and lights on. A wall will not help border se-
curity, and everyday working people are pay-
ing the price for a pointless standoff over it.
These are just a few of the stories I
have heard from Guard members. There
are many, many more.
I want to talk about a visit that I
just paid, and I would encourage every-
one in Congress to do this—in the Sen-
ate. We are here this week. There is a
pop-up restaurant at Seventh and
Pennsylvania—just seven blocks from
here—that was opened by an organiza-
tion called Chefs for Feds. Chefs for
Feds is an organization started by Jose
Andres to deal with emergencies. They
went to Puerto Rico and served mil-
lions of meals to people affected by
hurricanes there. They have done simi-
lar work in California to deal with the
communities affected by wildfires and
in Indonesia to deal with communities
affected by earthquakes and tsunamis.
This is an NGO that focuses on helping
people in the midst of disasters.
Now they have opened a restaurant
at Seventh and Pennsylvania. This is
the first manmade disaster in which
they are trying to figure out a way to
help. The restaurant opened last Tues-
day. Any Federal employee or family
member can come. Six to eight thou-
sand people have come every day. It is
open from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Today, they
expanded services. They have also
opened, broadly, a coat closet, a food
bank, a place where moms can go to
get diapers, which aren’t cheap, femi-
nine products, which aren’t cheap, and
basic pharmaceutical things that
aren’t cheap. So it is a combination of
a restaurant and sort of a broader so-
cial services ministry.
Chefs for Feds is an interesting
group. They have other nonprofits that
are involved—DC Diaper Bank, Mar-
tha’s Table, which is an effective,
faith-based ministry to hungry and
homeless people.
I showed up there at about 11:45. It is
cold today. I showed up to go thank
people and work as a volunteer. There
was a line like you see in pictures of
the Depression of hundreds of people
waiting outside. The restaurant is ac-
tually kind of short. You go in, get in
a line, and you are offered a sandwich
or soup and some fruit and maybe an
iced tea and utensils. People are com-
ing in and eating quickly and leaving.
You can take a sandwich for a col-
league at work or for somebody at
home if you need that. It looked like
one of those photos you might see from
the Depression.
The volunteers are chefs and res-
taurant workers around Virginia who
have their own issues and challenges to
deal with, but they are there helping.
Many of the volunteers are furloughed
Federal employees. If you are being
locked out of your job, you still want
to help others, and so probably the big-
gest group of the volunteers were fur-
loughed Federal employees.
I met a Federal employee from Rich-
mond who was furloughed and drove up
just to volunteer today to help others,
who lives not far from where I live.
There were other volunteers who are
just concerned citizens—not Federal
employees, but they heard about it and
came.
I met one of the volunteers, a kind of
supervisor of the kitchen. His name is
Tim, and so that was easy for me to re-
member. He was here from Ventura,
CA. He knew nothing about this group
until his house burned down in Cali-
fornia, and they came to his commu-
nity to offer meals. With his whole
house destroyed, he started to volun-
teer to help others. When he heard
about the shutdown, even as he is still
dealing with his own issues in Cali-
fornia after the wildfire, he came to
help run the kitchen operation.
Today, they not only expanded to the
clothes closet and diaper distribution;
they also announced a whole series of
other restaurants and similar pop-up
operations they are going to do all over
the United States. They have looked
where there is a high density of Fed-
eral employees, and they announced 15
to 20 other locations around the coun-
try where they are now going to start
serving.
It was something to see this long line
of Federal employees waiting out in
the cold to get into that restaurant.
Just the length of the line made a real
impression on me. It was emotional. It
was interesting that so many were law
enforcement in uniform—Park Service,
people from the FBI and other Agen-
cies, clearly law enforcement in uni-
form—waiting in the cold to come in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.006 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S322 January 22, 2019
and get a sandwich. There were parents
with their children, young children.
Being furloughed, it is hard to afford
childcare, so if you are going to come
down to get food, what do you do with
your 3-year-old? Well, they had their
children in their arms.
As I said, it looked like something
from the Depression, but we are not in
a depression. Our economy is strong
right now. Our stock market is up
right now. It is one thing to see that
kind of a line when we are in a depres-
sion, but when we are being told that
the economy is great, to see that kind
of line made a huge impression upon
me—so unnecessary.
I thank Jose Andres and the chefs. I
thank the volunteers. I thank Martha’s
Table. I thank others who are respond-
ing. They pointed out to me—they said:
Look, this one is different from all the
other ones we have done because it is
the only disaster that is manmade and
unnecessary.
Jose looked at me and said: Shut us
down by reopening government. You
guys reopen and then shut us down. We
don’t want to be open at Seventh and
Pennsylvania. We want to send the vol-
unteers home and have the government
reopen.
The President said he was proud to
shut down the government. I defy any
thinking and feeling person in this
country to go to Seventh and Pennsyl-
vania between 11 and 6 and look at that
line in the middle of January and say
they are proud. I have a lot of words
that I might attach to it. I don’t think
anybody could look at that—I don’t
think anybody going and talking to
people or working the line like I did—
just the faces. The faces of people as
they came to the line—all were grate-
ful. All were grateful that others were
there to provide some help, but many
were embarrassed, certainly for their
country and sometimes personally—
again, like my Coast Guarder who said:
I signed up to help people. I don’t like
asking for help. I don’t like asking for
charity.
There are people who are there that—
yes, they are grateful, but they are em-
barrassed and some are angry at how
they are being treated, and who can
blame them for that?
As I conclude, there is a way out.
There is a way out, and I think the way
out has two steps: First, reopen govern-
ment ASAP, and second, treat the
President’s proposal from Saturday se-
riously. I do believe the President’s
proposal—and we have talked about
this—I do believe it is a proposal that
deserves to be treated seriously.
The proposal he has made, if it were
offered for a vote now, with no oppor-
tunity to study it and improve it, I
probably would vote against it, but it
is a proposal that deserves to be treat-
ed seriously because it deals with four
issues. It deals with the right invest-
ment in border security; that is an im-
portant issue. It deals with how to deal
with Dreamers; that is an important
issue. It deals with how to deal with
the TPS program; that is an important
issue. There is a fourth issue in the
proposal that the President didn’t
speak about Saturday—the standards
and processes for applying and poten-
tially receiving asylum in the United
States. He didn’t mention that during
the speech. It is in the proposal. It is
an important issue.
What does it mean to take the Presi-
dent’s proposal seriously? Even if I
have some points of difference on each
of the four elements, I would not dis-
agree with the assertion that each of
the elements is very important. We
should be dealing with them.
What does it mean to take the Presi-
dent’s proposal seriously? If he means
it seriously, then he should want us to
address it seriously.
I understand that the bill is 1,200
pages. I understand that it might be in-
troduced today. I haven’t seen it. I
don’t think it has been introduced yet.
Maybe it has and I was down serving
lunch and haven’t had a chance to read
it. But 1,200 pages is a big bill, and
these are big and important topics.
What would be the way we would en-
gage, Democrats and Republicans, with
this proposal to show the President we
are taking it seriously? We would put
it in a committee—the Judiciary or
Appropriations Committee. The Parlia-
mentarians would determine where it
would go based upon how it is drafted,
but it would likely be one of those two
committees. The relevant committee
obviously has a Republican chair in a
Republican majority body; that is fine.
There is a Republican majority on the
committee; that is fine. But you would
put it in the committee, and the first
thing you would do is you would ask
the administration to come up and ex-
plain each point.
They put a proposal on the table. OK,
$5.7 billion—how do you want to spend
it? What does your TPS proposal
mean? What does your Dreamer pro-
posal mean? How do you propose to
change the asylum laws? The adminis-
tration would explain their proposal
and answer questions about it.
Then promptly—especially with a Re-
publican committee chair with some
power over timing—promptly, the com-
mittee could take up the matter and
have a normal committee process, with
members able to make amendments. I
am not on either of the relevant com-
mittees, so this is easy for me to say,
but if a Democrat had an idea about,
here is a way to improve it, there is no
chance that idea is getting passed
without some Republican votes because
the Democrats are in the minority. But
a Democrat and a Republican should be
able to offer ideas for how the proposal
should be improved, and that can be
done promptly.
With a Republican majority, the
chances of the President’s proposal—
hopefully with some improvements—
being reported out to the floor is very
high. If it is reported out to the floor,
we could have a similar process here,
with Members being able to make
amendments. Again, no amendment is
going to be accepted from a Democrat
without some Republicans saying it is
a good idea. No amendment would be
accepted without a majority or a
supermajority of this body saying:
That is a good idea; that improves the
proposal.
That would be how we would show
President Trump that we take the pro-
posal seriously.
I have heard—and I know it is not yet
completely decided, though—that there
is an effort that we want to have a vote
on it this week. We don’t want to have
a committee process. We don’t want to
have amendments. We just want to
have a vote on it this week.
That would suggest that the proposal
was not offered in seriousness and the
Senate was not being serious about ad-
dressing it.
I think the Senate, on this proposal,
should just be the Senate, and we
should count on committees, which are
helmed by Republicans, to try to
promptly move this through a process
where they all get to put their thumb-
prints on it and make it better.
Let me address quickly, as I con-
clude, the elements of the proposal.
How much to spend on border secu-
rity? For this Senator, the dollar
amount that the President proposed
does not trouble me as long as it is
used right. I have voted for proposals
to try to advance to the White House
that had more than $5.7 billion of bor-
der security. Our 2013 bill had $40-plus
billion over 10 years. The bill we voted
on in February had $25 billion over 10
years. The dollar amount is not the
challenge for this Senator. The chal-
lenge is that I want to make sure we
use it the right way.
When every Member of Congress who
represents the border—all nine—say
that just using the money to build a
big wall is a bad idea, that should tell
us something. When our border profes-
sionals say there are higher priorities
than using all the money to build a
wall, that should tell us something.
But if the administration goes to the
committee and presents their case, and
they have border professionals saying,
‘‘Here are the ways to spend it, and
physical barriers are really important
in this place or that place,’’ they would
really help us. I am very open to that.
I just don’t want to waste the money,
but the dollar amount is less important
to me than the way money should be
spent. That is the kind of thing we can
negotiate and find an accord on.
Dreamers. The President terminated
protection for about 1.7 million Dream-
ers two Septembers ago. He then chal-
lenged us to find a congressional reso-
lution.
His proposal is to restore protections
to about 700,000 Dreamers for a period
of 3 years. Well, I am curious—700,000.
Why not the full 1.7 million whose pro-
tections you pulled. Three years—why
not four? But these are issues we could
debate. These are issues where amend-
ments could be offered, and we could
find—again, I believe—a compromise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S323
January 22, 2019
The President is terminating TPS
programs for about 400,000 people from
10 countries. He is proposing, actually,
to restore about 300,000 of the individ-
uals with rights under the Temporary
Protected Status Program. I want to
know: Why not all 400,000? What is it
about some countries that you want to
restore the protections you took away
but you don’t want to restore protec-
tions to the other countries? Maybe
there is a reason. Maybe there is a good
reason. But maybe there isn’t a good
reason, and we ought to have that dis-
cussion and offer Democrats and Re-
publicans the ability to take some
sandpaper to it and try to make it bet-
ter.
Finally, asylum. This was the issue
that the President did not speak about
in his speech, but apparently the bill,
which I haven’t seen, has dramatic
changes to the processes for applying
for asylum and possibly the standards
for getting asylum.
That is an important issue. We want
to make sure that we do it right. There
are international legal ramifications,
and there are also ramifications in
terms of this ‘‘Statue of Liberty’’ Na-
tion. We want to make sure we get it
right, but is there an openness to hav-
ing discussions about asylum proce-
dures? Of course there is.
So I would say that when President
Trump put a proposal on the table on
Saturday that dealt with border secu-
rity funding, TPS, Dreamers, and asy-
lum, each of those issues are issues on
which we ought to be having a discus-
sion, and we ought to be able to find
some accord.
Frankly, if we can’t find a pretty sig-
nificant bipartisan accord here, the
chances of there being one in the House
is slim. So we ought to take the time
to find it here. We ought to take the
time to do that and do it promptly
without people being needlessly hurt.
That is why I return to my original
request. I hope we will take a step that
will shut down the pop-up restaurant
at 7th and Pennsylvania, as the chefs
asked me to do today. Let’s reopen
government and shut down the res-
taurant that has popped up to serve
those 6,000 to 8,000 people a day who are
being punished unnecessarily.
I thank the patience of the Chair and
those in the Chamber.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PORTMAN). The Senator from Mary-
land.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, on
December 11 of last year, at a meeting
at the White House, President Trump
said he would be ‘‘proud’’—‘‘proud’’—to
shut down the government of the
United States if he didn’t get things 100
percent his way. Then, 11 days later, on
December 22, President Trump shut
down the government.
We are now 32 days into the longest
government shutdown in the history of
the United States, and I say to Presi-
dent Trump: That is nothing to be
proud of.
The damage is growing by the day in
every part of our country and across
different sectors of our economy. It is
estimated that the partial government
shutdown is now costing the economy
$6 billion every week. Eight hundred
thousand Federal employees are going
without pay, and this coming Friday
will mark the second full pay period in
which they get pay stubs with a big fat
goose egg on them.
Hundreds of thousands of those Fed-
eral employees are working every day
without pay, and hundreds of thou-
sands of them have been locked out of
work and want to get back to doing the
business of the American people but
are prohibited from doing so because of
the government shutdown. So as a re-
sult of their inability to go to work,
there are tens of millions of our fellow
Americans who are losing access to
vital government services.
There is nothing to be proud of in
shutting out a whole sector of service
contract employees and small busi-
nesses that provide support services to
the Federal Government.
I am going to go into a little more
detail in a moment, but small busi-
nesses around this country that depend
on the Small Business Administration
for loans or because they do business
with the Federal Government are get-
ting absolutely clobbered. That is
nothing to be proud of.
It is not anything to be proud of that
so many Federal employees are not
able to make their rent or mortgage
payments or the monthly tuition in-
stallment payments for their children’s
college education or for other provi-
sions they want to provide for their
family.
Now, sadly, this Senate is complicit
in the shutdown. Let me actually re-
phrase that. The majority in the Sen-
ate is complicit in the shutdown be-
cause we have not been allowed a vote
on two bills that are on the Senate cal-
endar that we could vote on today and
would reopen the government.
I have one of those bills right here. I
have brought it to the floor in the past.
It is a bill that would open eight of the
nine Federal Departments that have
nothing to do with the Homeland Secu-
rity Department or border security or
a wall—eight of the nine of them. This
bill is sitting on the Senate calendar.
We could vote on it today, and yet the
majority leader refuses to bring it up
for a vote.
The great irony is that this bill that
is on the Senate calendar contains pro-
visions that have already been sup-
ported in the Senate by overwhelming
bipartisan majorities. A big part of this
bill includes about four Federal De-
partments where we voted by 92 to 6 on
the funding levels for the whole fiscal
year until the end of September. In
other cases, what is in this bill passed
the Senate Appropriations Committee
on a vote of 31 to 0 and another on a
vote of 30 to 1. So why aren’t we bring-
ing up these bills?
Now, the majority leader had said
previously he wasn’t going to bring up
any bills in the Senate unless they
were supported by President Trump
and by the Democrats. Do you know
what? That is an abdication of the re-
sponsibility of this Senate as a sepa-
rate and coequal branch of govern-
ment. Since when do we say to this
President or any President: We are not
going to consider a piece of legislation
on the floor of the Senate unless you
tell us ahead of time that you are good
with it?
That is not doing our job. That is not
fulfilling our constitutional responsi-
bility. We have an obligation to do our
duty as a separate branch of govern-
ment and vote, especially when it is on
a piece of legislation the Senate has al-
ready voted on and already supported
overwhelmingly on a bipartisan basis
and that would reopen the government.
So instead of doing our job, we are
going to contract out our responsibil-
ities to the President of the United
States, but apparently it is going to
get worse because now, as I understand
it, the majority leader has changed his
position and now he will allow a vote
on something in the Senate Chamber.
But guess what it is. It is on the Presi-
dent’s proposal.
So now not only are we going to es-
sentially say that we will not vote on
something the President doesn’t like,
but now the one thing the majority
leader says we will vote on is what the
President wants—what the President
wants.
Well, do you know what? I am OK
having to vote on the President’s pro-
posal, but if we are going to vote on
that, my goodness, we should also vote
on the bill that is already on the Sen-
ate calendar and that has already re-
ceived strong bipartisan support in the
U.S. Senate.
So I do have a question for the ma-
jority leader. If we are going to be vot-
ing on President Trump’s most recent
proposal, are we also going to be able
to have a vote on the bill that was al-
ready on the Senate calendar, that has
already been supported by a bipartisan
majority, and that would reopen the
government right away? That is my
question.
Let’s vote, and let’s just see what
happens, but let’s vote on not just what
the President of the United States
wants. Since when does the President
dictate what we do here in the Senate?
That is a question for every Member.
So I am for voting, but I am not for
doing what appears to be about to hap-
pen, which is just to say that we are
going to vote on what the President
wants and, again, contracting out our
responsibilities to the White House.
What we are seeing every day, as I
said, is the growing damage from this
shutdown. I mentioned that small busi-
nesses are really feeling the pain.
There is a story in the Wall Street
Journal, headline: ‘‘Small Businesses’
$2 Billion Problem: Government Shut-
down Leaves Loans in Limbo.’’
This is happening all over the coun-
try. What you are seeing is that busi-
nesses and startups and the engines of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.010 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S324 January 22, 2019
our economy are not able to access
loans through the Small Business Ad-
ministration. In fact, Mark Zandi of
Moody’s Analytics estimates the shut-
down has delayed the $2 billion in SBA
lending. Jill Emerson, the CEO of an
electrical components company in Ten-
nessee, just heard that her lender shut
down their $3 million line of credit.
‘‘Our frustration is unbelievable,’’ she
said. This is the CEO of an electrical
components company in Tennessee.
‘‘To keep us alive, I am borrowing from
business associates who have worked
with us for years.’’
We are hearing other small busi-
nesses that are just starved for lack of
capital, others where the small busi-
ness owners are personally guaran-
teeing loans. For the most part, there
are many who are just not getting the
capital they need to open up their busi-
nesses, to sustain their businesses, and
as a result, they are laying off workers.
That is a growing consequence of this
shutdown.
Many times, I have shared on this
floor some of the stories of Federal em-
ployees who work in Maryland and the
fact that they want, first and foremost,
to get back to work. Everywhere I go,
even before people mention the fact
that they are missing their paychecks,
they tell me they want to get back to
do the work for the American people.
Then they do share terrible stories
about how the lack of pay is impacting
them more and more, day by day.
Beyond the stories you will hear
from Federal employees who work in
my State of Maryland or Senator
KAINE’s State of Virginia—and I want
to thank Senator KAINE for all of his
efforts to reopen the government and,
of course, Federal employees in the
District of Columbia—the reality is, 80
percent of Federal employees live out-
side of this region. They live all over
the country. We are talking about the
Coast Guard, Coast Guard officials. We
are talking being TSA officials. We are
talking about Homeland Security offi-
cials. We are talking about people in
Federal Agencies who are scattered
across this country.
A former marine who is now an EPA
employee in Kansas is the primary
breadwinner for her family and two
children. Here is what she had to say
the other day: ‘‘To have to go to your
landlord and say, ‘I don’t know how I’m
going to pay you,’ I have never had to
do that.’’
The President said people would
‘‘make adjustments.’’ The President
said he could ‘‘relate.’’ It is easy for
the President to say. He is sort of
jetting from the White House to Mar-a-
Lago, to Trump Tower. Those words
are hollow to the millions of Ameri-
cans who are actually really hurting.
Here is what this Federal worker in
Kansas said:
We’re trying to cut the grocery bill just
down to the necessities, I mean we don’t live
extravagantly so it’s hard to cut out any
bills.
Her children notice, she said. She
said:
My son wants to sell art to pay our bills.
Right now, we have Federal employ-
ees all over the country who are trying
to take on odd jobs to make ends meet.
Sometimes that takes startup costs,
which, of course, they don’t have be-
cause they don’t have any income com-
ing in the door.
One story from Cadillac, MI, goes as
follows: Debra-Ann Brabazon, a fur-
loughed Forest Service worker, said
she is paying $100 to get fingerprinted
and get background-checked so she
could get certified as a substitute
teacher. She was down to eating one
meal a day. She didn’t have the $100 to
pay to get the fingerprinting and back-
ground check to get an odd job in order
to bring in some income while she
wasn’t getting her Federal paycheck.
She said she leapt to volunteer in ex-
change for grocery money and that ‘‘I
was a nanny in college. I am falling
back on everything I learned about
how to survive.’’
As we can see, as each day goes by,
the pain grows—the pain grows on
small businesses, the pain grows on
families. The Trump shutdown is also
hurting our national security and cre-
ating growing harm to our national se-
curity by the day.
The FBI Agents Association put out
a report today on the impacts they are
seeing. One agent said:
I have been working on a long term MS–13
investigation for over three years. We have
indicted 23 MS–13 gang members. . . . Since
the shutdown, I have not had a Spanish
speaker in the Division. We have several
Spanish speaking informants. We are only
able to communicate using a three way call
with a linguist in another division.
The government shutdown is hurting
the FBI’s efforts to go after MS–13
gangs.
I often hear President Trump talking
about the need to crack down on MS–
13, and when it comes to MS–13, he is
absolutely right. Long before the Presi-
dent even started talking about MS–13,
many of us in this body and in the
House of Representatives have been
working to crack down on MS–13 gang
violence. The President just discovered
MS–13 when he decided to run for
President, but many of us had been
working on that issue for a long time.
Yet now the government shutdown is
undermining that effort.
Here is what another national secu-
rity official says:
Not being able to pay Confidential Human
Sources risks losing them and the informa-
tion they provide FOREVER. It is not a
switch that we can turn on or off.
Here is another FBI official indi-
cating that the shutdown has shut off
funds they used for critical informants
to track down criminals, but appar-
ently that doesn’t matter to President
Trump. That effort is just another cas-
ualty of the shutdown he brought
about.
We are also seeing impacts on cyber
security. WIRED magazine reported
last week: ‘‘As the Government Shut-
down Drags On, Security Risks Inten-
sify.’’ The article notes that the new
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Secu-
rity Agency at the Department of
Homeland Security is operating with a
skeleton crew, risking government
websites and systems.
Many government websites have had their
HTTPS encryption certificates expire during
the shutdown, exposing them to potential
snooping or even impersonator sites. And
with most IT staff staying home, it seems
unlikely that software patches and upgrades
are being installed at their regular clip, po-
tentially leaving them exposed to malware
they’d otherwise be protected against.
In other words, since President
Trump has sent all these employees
home without pay, they are not able to
ensure that government computers are
not kept up to date with the software
they need to protect them against
cyber attacks. The shutdown is leaving
a lot of the U.S. Government’s com-
puter systems more vulnerable. When
that happens, it makes all of us more
vulnerable.
In addition, the private sector that
relies, in many ways, on a public-pri-
vate partnership with cyber security
resources from the National Institutes
of Standards and Technology, NIST,
says they are not able to access that
information at this point in time.
Those are just some of the more re-
cent impacts that harm our national
security. Interestingly, what we are
seeing is that not everyone is hurting.
It turns out, if you have friends in the
Trump administration, you may able
to get some relief.
I think many of us were interested
last week when the mortgage industry
was able to persuade the administra-
tion to bring back some employees
from the IRS back to work. Here is
what the mortgage industry said:
Could you make these guys essential,
meaning some of the folks then wanted
to bring back at the IRS.
Do you know what? In response to
the mortgage industry, the White
House brought more people back. Ac-
cording to the report, the shutdown
was stalling an IRS process to confirm
borrowers’ incomes before they could
grant home loans, and that of course is
a problem for the mortgage industry in
making those loans. So the Mortgage
Bankers Association reached out to the
Department of the Treasury, and sud-
denly the Department of the Treasury
said: Oh, that is an essential function.
The mortgage industry wants it. We
are going to bring back folks to process
that information.
The story quotes the chief executive
of the Bankers Association, saying: I
would like to take some credit. Our di-
rect request got quite rapid results.
I am glad people are getting their in-
come checked through IRS validations
so they can get their mortgages. The
way to do this isn’t to respond piece-
meal to some powerful special inter-
ests. We shouldn’t be playing favorites
in this shutdown, and that is what we
are seeing from this administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:12 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.012 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S325
January 22, 2019
The way to deal with it is obvious:
open up the government so we can re-
sume these functions. In the U.S. Sen-
ate, the fastest and best way to open up
the government is to have a vote—to
have a vote on the bill that is on the
Senate calendar that has already re-
ceived broad bipartisan support in the
U.S. Senate.
I want to talk a minute about Home-
land Security. The Trump administra-
tion’s request for this portion of border
security funding was $1.6 billion. That
is what is in their budget. You can look
at their budget online. They requested
$1.6 billion. I serve on the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee, and the Sen-
ate Appropriations Committee pro-
vided that request—provided that re-
quest for strengthening barriers. We
did say you can’t use that money to
build that sort of new, huge wall the
President used to talk about, but we
provided $1.6 billion. That was going to
work out fine in the long run.
Then, of course, in December, the
President said: Oh, I need this $5.7 bil-
lion for a big wall.
I think all of us who follow these
issues closely know that even before
President Trump was elected, we had
700 miles of barriers and fencing along
certain strategic parts of the border,
and we have provided funds to re-
enforce and strengthen some of those
barriers. So this is a totally manufac-
tured issue by the President of the
United States in terms of all of a sud-
den demanding more funds than the
President himself in his budget re-
quested.
So we should have a serious con-
versation on border security and immi-
gration issues, and we can have it now,
but what we cannot do is continue to
allow the country to be held hostage
through this government shutdown. As
I said at the beginning of my remarks,
it was the President of the United
States who said on December 11 of last
year, he would be ‘‘proud’’ to shut
down the government if he didn’t get
things his way. Well, that is just not
how things work, especially not how
things work in an era of divided gov-
ernment. So I appeal to my colleagues,
my Senate Republican colleagues to
work with us to find a way out. Obvi-
ously, the fastest way out is to vote on
the bills that already have bipartisan
support. We should have the conversa-
tion, but what I do find to be a very sad
reflection on this body, is if we move
forward and have a vote only on the
proposal the President of the United
States wants and not also a vote on the
bill that previously had bipartisan sup-
port in the U.S. Senate because that
would send an awful message. It would
send the message that the majority
party has allowed an independent and
coequal branch of government to be to-
tally hijacked by the President of the
United States, as opposed to doing our
job as a separate branch of government
under article I.
If we are going to take the position
that this Senate, with 53 Republicans
and 47 Democrats, is only going to vote
on a proposal from the President of the
United States, then we simply have be-
come a vehicle—an agent for the Presi-
dent. That would be a great shame on
this body.
If we are going to have a vote on that
bill—and I am fine to have a vote on
that bill. We should have votes. In the
light of day, we should have trans-
parency and accountability, but what
would be outrageous is to say: OK. We
are only going to vote on the bill the
President of the United States wants
and not on another measure that has
already received broad bipartisan sup-
port. That would be a dereliction of
duty in the U.S. Senate as a separate
and coequal branch of government.
Let’s end this shutdown. We have it
in our power to vote now. Let’s do our
job. The President can do what he
wants, but let’s do our job under the
Constitution and let’s do it and be held
accountable by the American public.
Let’s not use procedural devices to
only allow votes on what the President
wants and not votes on bills we voted
on before.
I am hoping this Senate will do its
job and do its duty and hold that vote
to reopen government and not just on
the President’s proposal but on the
other proposals as well. In the mean-
time, we should continue to have seri-
ous conversations about the most effec-
tive and cost-effective way to provide
border security and how we can deal
with other immigration issues, but no-
body should send the signal that shut-
ting down the government is a good
way to do business. I would hope that
neither Republican nor Democratic
Senators would want to send a signal
to the Executive that they are going to
be rewarded for shutting down the gov-
ernment—now 32 days long, a real
shame for the country, and something
nobody should be proud of. No matter
what the President of the United
States says, this is nothing for any-
body to be proud of.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—H.R. 268
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that it be in
order to move to proceed to H.R. 268.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—MOTION TO PROCEED
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to H.R. 268.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
H.R. 268, a bill making supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the motion to proceed.
The motion was agreed to.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 268) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 5
(Purpose: Of a perfecting nature.)
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
call up the Shelby amendment at the
desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment by
number.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] for Mr. SHELBY proposes an amend-
ment numbered 5 to H.R. 268.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority leader is recognized.
AMENDMENT NO. 6
(Purpose: Of a perfecting nature.)
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the pending
amendment be set aside, and I call up
my amendment, No. 6.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from New York [Mr. SCHUMER]
proposes an amendment numbered 6.
Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
f
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
further ask unanimous consent that
notwithstanding rule XXII, it be in
order to file cloture on amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.013 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S326 January 22, 2019
Nos. 5 and 6 during Thursday’s session
of the Senate and that cloture motions
filed on both amendments during
Thursday’s session of the Senate be
treated as if they were filed during to-
day’s session of the Senate and ripen at
2:30 p.m. on Thursday, January 24, 2019,
in the order filed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—RESUMED
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate resume consideration of the motion
to proceed to S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
S. 1, a bill to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 23, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
recess until 11 a.m., Wednesday, Janu-
ary 23, 2019, and that following the
prayer and pledge, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR RECESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand in recess, under the
previous order, following the remarks
of the Democratic leader.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
thank the Republican leader.
The Republican leader has just an-
nounced an agreement we have reached
about the schedule for the two votes on
Thursday, both of which will be amend-
ments to the House-passed continuing
resolution. First, the Senate will vote
on the President’s proposal, and then
we will vote on an amendment that is
identical to the underlying bill.
The President said his proposal was a
reasonable compromise. In fact, it is
neither reasonable nor a compromise.
There was no serious negotiation with
any Democrat about what went into
the proposal. That is because the pro-
posal was never intended to pass. It is
only a thinly veiled attempt by the
President to save face. Anyone who
looks at the legislation can tell it was
designed to fail. In exchange for the
wall, the President offers only limited
temporary protections for DACA and
TPS—protections he single-handedly
removed. So it is sort of like bar-
gaining for stolen goods. On top of
that, he has proposed new, radical
changes to our asylum system without
consulting any Democrats—changes
that controvert our Nation’s most fun-
damental and precious values. I hope
that it will be roundly defeated on
Thursday.
The good news is that after that vote,
we will have a second amendment that
could break us out of this morass we
are in. The Senate will proceed to an
amendment to the House bill that is
identical to the underlying legislation.
In other words, for the first time, we
will have a vote on whether to open up
the government without any decision,
one way or the other, on border secu-
rity. The proposal also adds necessary
disaster aid to several States that were
recently ravaged by natural disasters.
People are asking: Isn’t there a way
out of this mess? Isn’t there a way to
relieve the burden on the 800,000 Fed-
eral workers who are not getting paid?
Isn’t there a way to get government
services open first and then to debate
what we should do for border security?
There is a way, and that will be the
second vote that will occur on Thurs-
day. It would reopen all of the portions
of the government until February 8—
open them briefly, but open them it
will—and it would allow workers to get
paid and get their backpay. It would
allow us to then debate—without hos-
tage-taking, without temper tantrums,
without anything—how we can best do
border security. We would get that
done, hopefully, by February 8 and
keep the government open.
If you are looking for a way to open
up the government, this is the way. I
hope my Republican colleagues—many
of whom were circulating a letter that
does, basically, the same thing as does
this proposal but without the disaster
aid—will sign, will vote yes. The Amer-
ican people are looking for a solution.
I am glad that we will have a vote that
will bring us nearer to that solution,
much closer to that solution. That will
be the second vote here, which will
open up the government and then will
allow us to debate border security.
Again, I urge enough of my Repub-
lican colleagues to join us Democrats
in voting for the proposal, which has
already passed the House, that could
open up the government.
I yield the floor.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 268. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–141. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a legis-
lative proposal entitled ‘‘Consumer Finan-
cial Protection Bureau Amendment to the
Consumer Financial Protection Act to Clar-
ify Bureau Authority to Exercise Its Super-
visory Authority to Assess Compliance with
the Military Lending Act’’; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–142. A communication from the General
Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Elimination of
Form 80 and Revision of Regulations on Rec-
reational Opportunities and Development at
Licensed Hydropower Projects’’ ((Docket No.
RM18–14–000; Order No. 852) (RIN1902–AF51))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 17, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–143. A communication from the Execu-
tive Analyst (Political), Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
for Financial Resources, Department of
Health and Human Services, received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 17, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–144. A communication from the Execu-
tive Analyst (Political), Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
for Planning and Evaluation, Department of
Health and Human Services, received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 17, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–145. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Japan to
support the integration, installation, oper-
ation, training, testing, maintenance, and
repair of the IBIS III System in the amount
of $100,000,000 or more (Transmittal No.
DDTC 18–063); to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–146. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Belgium to support the design,
development, integration, and installation
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) Alliance Ground Surveillance (AGS)
program in the amount of $100,000,000 or
more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–055); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–147. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
5.56mm rifles to Qatar for use by their Inter-
nal Security Force in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–
061); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–148. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22JA6.015 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S327
January 22, 2019
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment abroad and the export of
firearm parts and components, including
technical data and defense services, abroad
controlled under Category I of the U.S. Mu-
nitions Lists to Italy and Qatar to support
the manufacture, integration, assembly, op-
eration, training, testing, and maintenance
of 5.56mm upper receivers in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–
073); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–149. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Switzerland and the United
Kingdom to support the integration, instal-
lation, upgrade, operation, training, testing,
maintenance, and repair of the F/A 18 Tac-
tical Operational Flight Trainer (TOFT) in
the amount of $50,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–064); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–150. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Switzerland and the United
Kingdom to support the integration, instal-
lation, upgrade, operation, training, testing,
maintenance, and repair of the F/A 18 Tac-
tical Operational Flight Trainer (TOFT) in
the amount of $50,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–064); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–151. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to the United
Kingdom to support the integration of the
MK 41 vertical launch system (VLS) on three
Type 26 Global Combat Ships for the use by
the United Kingdom’s Ministry of Defense in
the amount of $25,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–079); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–152. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, for the man-
ufacture of significant military equipment
abroad to Taiwan to support the manufac-
ture of the AR–1500 International 1-Channel
Airborne Radio (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–
046); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–153. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Workers’ Compensation Pro-
grams, Department of Labor, transmitting,
pursuant to law, Secretary of Labor’s re-
sponse to the Office of the Ombudsman’s 2016
Annual Report; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–4. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to salaries of Mem-
bers of Congress during full or partial federal
government shutdowns; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. REED, Mr.
SANDERS, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 197. A bill to provide for the confiden-
tiality of information submitted in requests
for deferred action under the deferred action
for childhood arrivals program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. WARNER:
S. 198. A bill to provide for continuing ap-
propriations in the event of a lapse in appro-
priations under the normal appropriations
process, other than for the legislative branch
and the Executive Office of the President; to
the Committee on Appropriations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 30
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 30, a bill to require the Secretary
of Defense to develop and implement a
plan to provide chiropractic health
care services for certain covered bene-
ficiaries as part of the TRICARE pro-
gram.
S. 145
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 145, a bill to expand
opportunity through greater choice in
education, and for other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 172, a bill to delay the reimposi-
tion of the annual fee on health insur-
ance providers until after 2021.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 178, a bill to condemn
gross human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 5. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. SHELBY)
proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
SA 6. Mr. SCHUMER proposed an amend-
ment to the bill H.R. 268, supra.
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 5. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
SHELBY) proposed an amendment to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike all after the word ‘‘appropriated,’’
on line 1 and insert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘End the
Shutdown and Secure the Border Act’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Explanatory statement.
Sec. 5. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 6. Availability of funds.
DIVISION A—AGRICULTURE, RURAL DE-
VELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Agricultural Programs
Title II—Farm Production and Conservation
Programs
Title III—Rural Development Programs
Title IV—Domestic Food Programs
Title V—Foreign Assistance and Related
Programs
Title VI—Related Agency and Food and Drug
Administration
Title VII—General Provisions
DIVISION B—COMMERCE, JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of Commerce
Title II—Department of Justice
Title III—Science
Title IV—Related Agencies
Title V—General Provisions
DIVISION C—FINANCIAL SERVICES AND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of the Treasury
Title II—Executive Office of the President
and Funds Appropriated to the
President
Title III—The Judiciary
Title IV—District of Columbia
Title V—Independent Agencies
Title VI—General Provisions—This Act
Title VII—General Provisions—Government-
wide
Title VIII—General Provisions—District of
Columbia
DIVISION D—DEPARTMENT OF HOME-
LAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Title I—Departmental Management, Oper-
ations, Intelligence, and Over-
sight
Title II—Security, Enforcement, and Inves-
tigations
Title III—Protection, Preparedness, Re-
sponse, and Recovery
Title IV—Research, Development, Training,
and Services
Title V—General Provisions
DIVISION E—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of the Interior
Title II—Environmental Protection Agency
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions
DIVISION F—DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED
PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of State and Related
Agency
Title II—United States Agency for Inter-
national Development
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.004 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S328 January 22, 2019
Title III—Bilateral Economic Assistance
Title IV—International Security Assistance
Title V—Multilateral Assistance
Title VI—Export and Investment Assistance
Title VII—General Provisions
Title VIII—Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism
DIVISION G—TRANSPORTATION, HOUS-
ING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of Transportation
Title II—Department of Housing and Urban
Development
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions—This Act
DIVISION H—ADDITIONAL SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DIS-
ASTER RELIEF, 2019
DIVISION I—EXTENSIONS, TECHNICAL
CORRECTIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS
Title I—Immigration Extensions
Title II—Pesticide Registration Improve-
ment Act Extension
Title III—Violence Against Women Act Ex-
tension
Title IV—Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness Extensions
Title V—Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families Program Extension
Title VI—Technical Corrections
Title VII—Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
Title VIII—Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau Inspector General Re-
form
Title IX—Budgetary Effects
DIVISION J—VULNERABLE IMMIGRANTS
PROTECTION AND SECURITY ACT
DIVISION K—PROVISIONAL PROTECTED
PRESENCE FOR CERTAIN ALIENS IN
THE UNITED STATES WHO PRE-
VIOUSLY RECEIVED TEMPORARY PRO-
TECTED STATUS
DIVISION L—PROTECTION OF CENTRAL
AMERICAN MINORS
SEC. 3. REFERENCES TO ACT.
Except as expressly provided otherwise,
any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ contained in any
division of this Act shall be treated as refer-
ring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
The explanatory statement regarding this
Act, printed in the Congressional Record on
or about January 22, 2019, and submitted by
the Chairman of the Committee on Appro-
priations, shall have the same effect with re-
spect to the allocation of funds and imple-
mentation of divisions A through G of this
Act as if it were a joint explanatory state-
ment of a committee of conference.
SEC. 5. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.
The following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019.
SEC. 6. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
Each amount designated in this Act by the
Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable)
only if the President subsequently so des-
ignates all such amounts and transmits such
designations to the Congress.
DIVISION A—AGRICULTURE, RURAL DE-
VELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINIS-
TRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH, AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $46,603,000, of which not to exceed
$5,051,000 shall be available for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed
$800,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Assistant to the Secretary for Rural De-
velopment: Provided, That funds made avail-
able by this Act to an agency in the Rural
Development mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $1,496,000 shall be available for the
Office of Homeland Security; not to exceed
$4,711,000 shall be available for the Office of
Partnerships and Public Engagement; not to
exceed $23,176,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Admin-
istration, of which $22,301,000 shall be avail-
able for Departmental Administration to
provide for necessary expenses for manage-
ment support services to offices of the De-
partment and for general administration, se-
curity, repairs and alterations, and other
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not oth-
erwise provided for and necessary for the
practical and efficient work of the Depart-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available by this Act to an agency in the Ad-
ministration mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $3,869,000 shall be available for the
Office of Assistant Secretary for Congres-
sional Relations to carry out the programs
funded by this Act, including programs in-
volving intergovernmental affairs and liai-
son within the executive branch; and not to
exceed $7,500,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Communications: Provided further,
That the Secretary of Agriculture is author-
ized to transfer funds appropriated for any
office of the Office of the Secretary to any
other office of the Office of the Secretary:
Provided further, That no appropriation for
any office shall be increased or decreased by
more than 5 percent: Provided further, That
not to exceed $22,000 of the amount made
available under this paragraph for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary shall be avail-
able for official reception and representation
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the amount made available under this
heading for Departmental Administration
shall be reimbursed from applicable appro-
priations in this Act for travel expenses inci-
dent to the holding of hearings as required
by 5 U.S.C. 551–558: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be transferred to
agencies of the Department of Agriculture
funded by this Act to maintain personnel at
the agency level: Provided further, That no
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be obligated after
30 days from the date of enactment of this
Act, unless the Secretary has notified the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress on the allocation of these
funds by USDA agency.
EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Economist, $21,286,000, of which
$5,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative
agreements for policy research under 7
U.S.C. 3155.
OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Hearings and Appeals, $15,222,000.
OFFICE OF BUDGET AND PROGRAM ANALYSIS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Budget and Program Analysis, $9,525,000.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Information Officer, $55,630,000, of
which not less than $38,000,000 is for cyberse-
curity requirements of the department.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, $6,028,000.
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, $901,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $24,206,000.
AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For payment of space rental and related
costs pursuant to Public Law 92–313, includ-
ing authorities pursuant to the 1984 delega-
tion of authority from the Administrator of
General Services to the Department of Agri-
culture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and
activities of the Department which are in-
cluded in this Act, and for alterations and
other actions needed for the Department and
its agencies to consolidate unneeded space
into configurations suitable for release to
the Administrator of General Services, and
for the operation, maintenance, improve-
ment, and repair of Agriculture buildings
and facilities, and for related costs,
$59,967,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Agriculture, to comply with the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,503,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That ap-
propriations and funds available herein to
the Department for Hazardous Materials
Management may be transferred to any
agency of the Department for its use in
meeting all requirements pursuant to the
above Acts on Federal and non-Federal
lands.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, including employment pur-
suant to the Inspector General Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000,
including such sums as may be necessary for
contracting and other arrangements with
public agencies and private persons pursuant
to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.),
and including not to exceed $125,000 for cer-
tain confidential operational expenses, in-
cluding the payment of informants, to be ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General pursuant to the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.)
and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97–98).
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
General Counsel, $45,146,000.
OFFICE OF ETHICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Ethics, $4,136,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND ECONOMICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Research, Education,
and Economics, $800,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Research, Education, and Economics
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S329
January 22, 2019
mission area for salaries and expenses are
available to fund up to one administrative
support staff for the Office.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the Economic
Research Service, $86,757,000.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the National Ag-
ricultural Statistics Service, $174,517,000, of
which up to $45,300,000 shall be available
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:
Provided, That amounts made available for
the Census of Agriculture may be used to
conduct Current Industrial Report surveys
subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Research Service and for acquisition of lands
by donation, exchange, or purchase at a
nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land
exchanges where the lands exchanged shall
be of equal value or shall be equalized by a
payment of money to the grantor which
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value
of the land or interests transferred out of
Federal ownership, $1,303,266,000, of which
$10,600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be used to carry out the science
program at the National Bio- and Agro-de-
fense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas:
Provided, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for the operation and
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of
not to exceed one for replacement only: Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250
for the construction, alteration, and repair
of buildings and improvements, but unless
otherwise provided, the cost of constructing
any one building shall not exceed $500,000,
except for headhouses or greenhouses which
shall each be limited to $1,800,000, except for
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at
a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 each, and ex-
cept for two buildings to be constructed at a
cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building or
$500,000, whichever is greater: Provided fur-
ther, That appropriations hereunder shall be
available for entering into lease agreements
at any Agricultural Research Service loca-
tion for the construction of a research facil-
ity by a non-Federal entity for use by the
Agricultural Research Service and a condi-
tion of the lease shall be that any facility
shall be owned, operated, and maintained by
the non-Federal entity and shall be removed
upon the expiration or termination of the
lease agreement: Provided further, That the
limitations on alterations contained in this
Act shall not apply to modernization or re-
placement of existing facilities at Beltsville,
Maryland: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available for grant-
ing easements at the Beltsville Agricultural
Research Center: Provided further, That the
foregoing limitations shall not apply to re-
placement of buildings needed to carry out
the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for granting easements at
any Agricultural Research Service location
for the construction of a research facility by
a non-Federal entity for use by, and accept-
able to, the Agricultural Research Service
and a condition of the easements shall be
that upon completion the facility shall be
accepted by the Secretary, subject to the
availability of funds herein, if the Secretary
finds that acceptance of the facility is in the
interest of the United States: Provided fur-
ther, That funds may be received from any
State, other political subdivision, organiza-
tion, or individual for the purpose of estab-
lishing or operating any research facility or
research project of the Agricultural Re-
search Service, as authorized by law.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For the acquisition of land, construction,
repair, improvement, extension, alteration,
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities
as necessary to carry out the agricultural re-
search programs of the Department of Agri-
culture, where not otherwise provided,
$381,200,000 to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $247,700,000 shall be allo-
cated for ARS facilities co-located with uni-
versity partners.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
For payments to agricultural experiment
stations, for cooperative forestry and other
research, for facilities, and for other ex-
penses, $927,649,000, which shall be for the
purposes, and in the amounts, specified in
the table titled ‘‘National Institute of Food
and Agriculture, Research and Education Ac-
tivities’’ in the joint explanatory statement
accompanying this Act: Provided, That funds
for research grants for 1994 institutions, edu-
cation grants for 1890 institutions, capacity
building for non-land-grant colleges of agri-
culture, the agriculture and food research
initiative, veterinary medicine loan repay-
ment, multicultural scholars, graduate fel-
lowship and institution challenge grants,
and grants management systems shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That each institution eligible to receive
funds under the Evans-Allen program re-
ceives no less than $1,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That funds for education grants for
Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving
institutions be made available to individual
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible
institutions with funds awarded equally to
each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii: Pro-
vided further, That funds for education grants
for 1890 institutions shall be made available
to institutions eligible to receive funds
under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222: Provided further,
That not more than 5 percent of the amounts
made available by this or any other Act to
carry out the Agriculture and Food Research
Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be re-
tained by the Secretary of Agriculture to
pay administrative costs incurred by the
Secretary in carrying out that authority.
NATIVE AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ENDOWMENT
FUND
For the Native American Institutions En-
dowment Fund authorized by Public Law
103–382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to re-
main available until expended.
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
For payments to States, the District of Co-
lumbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas,
and American Samoa, $505,692,000, which
shall be for the purposes, and in the
amounts, specified in the table titled ‘‘Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture, Ex-
tension Activities’’ in the joint explanatory
statement accompanying this Act: Provided,
That funds for facility improvements at 1890
institutions shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That institutions
eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221
for cooperative extension receive no less
than $1,000,000: Provided further, That funds
for cooperative extension under sections 3(b)
and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C.
343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) of Public
Law 93–471 shall be available for retirement
and employees’ compensation costs for ex-
tension agents.
INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES
For the integrated research, education,
and extension grants programs, including
necessary administrative expenses,
$38,000,000, which shall be for the purposes,
and in the amounts, specified in the table ti-
tled ‘‘National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture, Integrated Activities’’ in the joint
explanatory statement accompanying this
Act: Provided, That funds for the Food and
Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided
further, That notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, indirect costs shall not be
charged against any Extension Implementa-
tion Program Area grant awarded under the
Crop Protection/Pest Management Program
(7 U.S.C. 7626).
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Marketing and Regu-
latory Programs, $901,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Marketing and Regulatory Pro-
grams mission area for salaries and expenses
are available to fund up to one administra-
tive support staff for the Office.
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION
SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, including
up to $30,000 for representation allowances
and for expenses pursuant to the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085),
$1,011,136,000, of which $470,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant
diseases, animal diseases and for control of
pest animals and birds (‘‘contingency fund’’)
to the extent necessary to meet emergency
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used for
the cotton pests program for cost share pur-
poses or for debt retirement for active eradi-
cation zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for Animal
Health Technical Services; of which $705,000
shall be for activities under the authority of
the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended
(15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be used
to support avian health; of which $4,251,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for information technology infrastructure; of
which $186,013,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of
which, $11,826,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for field crop and range-
land ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be for
zoonotic disease management; of which
$40,966,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for emergency preparedness
and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for tree
and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for the scrapie program for
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the
wildlife damage management program for
aviation safety: Provided, That of amounts
available under this heading for wildlife
services methods development, $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That of amounts available
under this heading for the screwworm pro-
gram, $4,990,000 shall remain available until
expended; of which $13,600,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used to
carry out the science program at the Na-
tional Bio- and Agro-defense Facility located
in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided further, That
no funds shall be used to formulate or ad-
minister a brucellosis eradication program
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S330 January 22, 2019
for the current fiscal year that does not re-
quire minimum matching by the States of at
least 40 percent: Provided further, That this
appropriation shall be available for the oper-
ation and maintenance of aircraft and the
purchase of not to exceed five, of which two
shall be for replacement only: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition, in emergencies which
threaten any segment of the agricultural
production industry of the United States,
the Secretary may transfer from other ap-
propriations or funds available to the agen-
cies or corporations of the Department such
sums as may be deemed necessary, to be
available only in such emergencies for the
arrest and eradication of contagious or infec-
tious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or
plants, and for expenses in accordance with
sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health
Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and
sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unex-
pended balances of funds transferred for such
emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal
year shall be merged with such transferred
amounts: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available pursuant
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alter-
ation of leased buildings and improvements,
but unless otherwise provided the cost of al-
tering any one building during the fiscal
year shall not exceed 10 percent of the cur-
rent replacement value of the building.
In fiscal year 2019, the agency is authorized
to collect fees to cover the total costs of pro-
viding technical assistance, goods, or serv-
ices requested by States, other political sub-
divisions, domestic and international organi-
zations, foreign governments, or individuals,
provided that such fees are structured such
that any entity’s liability for such fees is
reasonably based on the technical assistance,
goods, or services provided to the entity by
the agency, and such fees shall be reim-
bursed to this account, to remain available
until expended, without further appropria-
tion, for providing such assistance, goods, or
services.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, preventive
maintenance, environmental support, im-
provement, extension, alteration, and pur-
chase of fixed equipment or facilities, as au-
thorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of
land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000,
to remain available until expended.
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE
MARKETING SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Marketing Service, $159,095,000, of which
$4,000,000 shall be available for the purposes
of section 12306 of Public Law 113–79; and of
which $1,500,000 shall be available for mar-
keting activities authorized under section
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of
1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) to provide to State de-
partments of agriculture, State cooperative
extension services, institutions of higher
education, and nonprofit organizations
grants to carry out programs and provide
technical assistance to promote innovation,
process improvement, and marketing relat-
ing to dairy products: Provided, That this ap-
propriation shall be available pursuant to
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and re-
pair of buildings and improvements, but the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building.
Fees may be collected for the cost of stand-
ardization activities, as established by regu-
lation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for administrative expenses: Pro-
vided, That if crop size is understated and/or
other uncontrollable events occur, the agen-
cy may exceed this limitation by up to 10
percent with notification to the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress.
FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME,
AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32)
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds available under section 32 of the Act
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be
used only for commodity program expenses
as authorized therein, and other related op-
erating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to
the Department of Commerce as authorized
by the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C.
742a et seq.); (2) transfers otherwise provided
in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,705,000
for formulation and administration of mar-
keting agreements and orders pursuant to
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 1961 (Pub-
lic Law 87–128).
PAYMENTS TO STATES AND POSSESSIONS
For payments to departments of agri-
culture, bureaus and departments of mar-
kets, and similar agencies for marketing ac-
tivities under section 204(b) of the Agricul-
tural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)),
$1,235,000.
LIMITATION ON INSPECTION AND WEIGHING
SERVICES EXPENSES
Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for inspection and weighing serv-
ices: Provided, That if grain export activities
require additional supervision and oversight,
or other uncontrollable factors occur, this
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 per-
cent with notification to the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD
SAFETY
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food Safety, $800,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE
For necessary expenses to carry out serv-
ices authorized by the Federal Meat Inspec-
tion Act, the Poultry Products Inspection
Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act,
including not to exceed $10,000 for represen-
tation allowances and for expenses pursuant
to section 8 of the Act approved August 3,
1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,049,344,000; and in addi-
tion, $1,000,000 may be credited to this ac-
count from fees collected for the cost of lab-
oratory accreditation as authorized by sec-
tion 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conserva-
tion and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Pro-
vided, That funds provided for the Public
Health Data Communication Infrastructure
system shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That no fewer than
148 full-time equivalent positions shall be
employed during fiscal year 2019 for purposes
dedicated solely to inspections and enforce-
ment related to the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.): Provided
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection
Service shall continue implementation of
section 11016 of Public Law 110–246 as further
clarified by the amendments made in section
12106 of Public Law 113–79: Provided further,
That this appropriation shall be available
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alter-
ation and repair of buildings and improve-
ments, but the cost of altering any one
building during the fiscal year shall not ex-
ceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building.
TITLE II
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FARM
PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Farm Production and
Conservation, $901,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Farm Production and Conservation mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the Office.
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
BUSINESS CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Pro-
duction and Conservation Business Center,
$216,350,000: Provided, That $60,228,000 of
amounts appropriated for the current fiscal
year pursuant to section 1241(a) of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985
(16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Serv-
ice Agency, $1,081,655,000, of which not less
than $20,000,000 shall be for the hiring of new
employees to fill vacancies at Farm Service
Agency county offices and farm loan officers
and shall be available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That not more than 50 percent
of the funding made available under this
heading for information technology may be
obligated until the Secretary submits to the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress, and receives written or
electronic notification of receipt from such
Committees of, a plan for expenditure that
(1) identifies for each project/investment
over $25,000 (a) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated
lifecycle cost for the entirety of the project/
investment, including estimates for develop-
ment as well as maintenance and operations,
and (c) key milestones to be met; (2) dem-
onstrates that each project/investment is, (a)
consistent with the Farm Service Agency In-
formation Technology Roadmap, (b) being
managed in accordance with applicable
lifecycle management policies and guidance,
and (c) subject to the applicable Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements; and (3) has been reviewed
by the Government Accountability Office
and approved by the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the agency shall submit a
report by the end of the fourth quarter of fis-
cal year 2019 to the Committees on Appro-
priations and the Government Account-
ability Office, that identifies for each
project/investment that is operational (a)
current performance against key indicators
of customer satisfaction, (b) current per-
formance of service level agreements or
other technical metrics, (c) current perform-
ance against a pre-established cost baseline,
(d) a detailed breakdown of current and
planned spending on operational enhance-
ments or upgrades, and (e) an assessment of
whether the investment continues to meet
business needs as intended as well as alter-
natives to the investment: Provided further,
That the Secretary is authorized to use the
services, facilities, and authorities (but not
the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion to make program payments for all pro-
grams administered by the Agency: Provided
further, That other funds made available to
the Agency for authorized activities may be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S331
January 22, 2019
advanced to and merged with this account:
Provided further, That funds made available
to county committees shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That none
of the funds available to the Farm Service
Agency shall be used to close Farm Service
Agency county offices: Provided further, That
none of the funds available to the Farm
Service Agency shall be used to permanently
relocate county based employees that would
result in an office with two or fewer employ-
ees without prior notification and approval
of the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress.
STATE MEDIATION GRANTS
For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the
Agricultural Credit Act of 1987, as amended
(7 U.S.C. 5101–5106), $3,904,000.
GRASSROOTS SOURCE WATER PROTECTION
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out well-
head or groundwater protection activities
under section 1240O of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb–2), $6,500,000, to re-
main available until expended.
DAIRY INDEMNITY PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses involved in making
indemnity payments to dairy farmers and
manufacturers of dairy products under a
dairy indemnity program, such sums as may
be necessary, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such program is car-
ried out by the Secretary in the same man-
ner as the dairy indemnity program de-
scribed in the Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001
(Public Law 106–387, 114 Stat. 1549A–12).
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed farm own-
ership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7
U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisi-
tion loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7
U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans
(7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly
fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be
available from funds in the Agricultural
Credit Insurance Fund, as follows:
$2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership
loans and $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership di-
rect loans; $1,960,000,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans and $1,530,000,000
for direct operating loans; emergency loans,
$37,668,000; Indian tribe land acquisition
loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation
loans, $150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated
land loans, $10,000,000; and for boll weevil
eradication program loans, $30,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall deem the
pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the
purpose of boll weevil eradication program
loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
and grants, including the cost of modifying
loans as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows:
farm operating loans, $59,670,000 for direct
operating loans, $21,168,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans, emergency
loans, $1,567,000 and $2,134,000 for Indian high-
ly fractionated land loans to remain avail-
able until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $317,068,000: Provided,
That of this amount, $290,917,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries
and Expenses’’: Provided further, That of this
amount $16,081,000 shall be transferred to and
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm
Production and Conservation Business Cen-
ter, Salaries and Expenses’’.
Funds appropriated by this Act to the Ag-
ricultural Credit Insurance Program Ac-
count for farm ownership, operating and con-
servation direct loans and guaranteed loans
may be transferred among these programs:
Provided, That the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress are notified
at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Risk Man-
agement Agency, $58,361,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses,
as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
CONSERVATION OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16
U.S.C. 590a–f), including preparation of con-
servation plans and establishment of meas-
ures to conserve soil and water (including
farm irrigation and land drainage and such
special measures for soil and water manage-
ment as may be necessary to prevent floods
and the siltation of reservoirs and to control
agricultural related pollutants); operation of
conservation plant materials centers; classi-
fication and mapping of soil; dissemination
of information; acquisition of lands, water,
and interests therein for use in the plant ma-
terials program by donation, exchange, or
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7
U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or alter-
ation or improvement of permanent and tem-
porary buildings; and operation and mainte-
nance of aircraft, $819,492,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That appropriations hereunder shall be
available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for con-
struction and improvement of buildings and
public improvements at plant materials cen-
ters, except that the cost of alterations and
improvements to other buildings and other
public improvements shall not exceed
$250,000: Provided further, That when build-
ings or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land, that the right to use such land
is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, $5,600,000, shall
remain available until expended for the au-
thorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–
1009 for authorized ongoing watershed
projects with a primary purpose of providing
water to rural communities.
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out pre-
ventive measures, including but not limited
to surveys and investigations, engineering
operations, works of improvement, and
changes in use of land, in accordance with
the Watershed Protection and Flood Preven-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–1009)
and in accordance with the provisions of
laws relating to the activities of the Depart-
ment, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That for funds provided
by this Act or any other prior Act, the limi-
tation regarding the size of the watershed or
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and
fifty thousand acres in which such activities
can be undertaken shall only apply for ac-
tivities undertaken for the primary purpose
of flood prevention (including structural and
land treatment measures): Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $50,000,000 shall be allocated to
projects and activities that can commence
promptly following enactment; that address
regional priorities for flood prevention, agri-
cultural water management, inefficient irri-
gation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or
watershed protection; or that address au-
thorized ongoing projects under the authori-
ties of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of
December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78–534) with a
primary purpose of watershed protection by
preventing floodwater damage and stabi-
lizing stream channels, tributaries, and
banks to reduce erosion and sediment trans-
port.
WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Under the authorities of section 14 of the
Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention
Act, $10,000,000 is provided: Provided, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing, $5,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for watershed rehabilitation projects
in states with high-hazard dams and other
watershed structures and that have recently
incurred flooding events which caused fatali-
ties.
CORPORATIONS
The following corporations and agencies
are hereby authorized to make expenditures,
within the limits of funds and borrowing au-
thority available to each such corporation or
agency and in accord with law, and to make
contracts and commitments without regard
to fiscal year limitations as provided by sec-
tion 104 of the Government Corporation Con-
trol Act as may be necessary in carrying out
the programs set forth in the budget for the
current fiscal year for such corporation or
agency, except as hereinafter provided.
FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION FUND
For payments as authorized by section 516
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
1516), such sums as may be necessary, to re-
main available until expended.
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION FUND
REIMBURSEMENT FOR NET REALIZED LOSSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the current fiscal year, such sums as
may be necessary to reimburse the Com-
modity Credit Corporation for net realized
losses sustained, but not previously reim-
bursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of
August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a–11): Provided,
That of the funds available to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation under section 11
of the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the conduct of its
business with the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and
used by the Foreign Agricultural Service for
information resource management activities
of the Foreign Agricultural Service that are
not related to Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion business.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
(LIMITATION ON EXPENSES)
For the current fiscal year, the Commodity
Credit Corporation shall not expend more
than $5,000,000 for site investigation and
cleanup expenses, and operations and main-
tenance expenses to comply with the require-
ment of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and section
6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6961).
TITLE III
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the administration and implementation of
Rural Development programs, including ac-
tivities with institutions concerning the de-
velopment and operation of agricultural co-
operatives; and for cooperative agreements;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S332 January 22, 2019
$236,835,000: Provided, That no less than
$6,000,000 shall be for information technology
investments: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated under this heading may be used
for advertising and promotional activities
that support Rural Development programs:
Provided further, That in addition to any
other funds appropriated for purposes au-
thorized by section 502(i) of the Housing Act
of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts col-
lected under such section, as amended by
this Act, will immediately be credited to
this account and will remain available until
expended for such purposes.
RURAL HOUSING SERVICE
RURAL HOUSING INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by title V of the Housing Act of
1949, to be available from funds in the rural
housing insurance fund, as follows:
$1,000,000,000 shall be for direct loans and
$24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guar-
anteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 hous-
ing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515
rental housing; $230,000,000 for section 538
guaranteed multi-family housing loans;
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family
housing acquired property; $5,000,000 for sec-
tion 523 self-help housing land development
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site devel-
opment loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed
loans, including the cost of modifying loans,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502
loans, $67,700,000 shall be for direct loans;
section 504 housing repair loans, $3,419,000;
section 523 self-help housing land develop-
ment loans, $431,000; section 524 site develop-
ment loans, $176,000; and repair, rehabilita-
tion, and new construction of section 515
rental housing, $9,484,000: Provided, That to
support the loan program level for section
538 guaranteed loans made available under
this heading the Secretary may charge or ad-
just any fees to cover the projected cost of
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provi-
sions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2
U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such
loans may not be subsidized: Provided further,
That applicants in communities that have a
current rural area waiver under section 541
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q)
shall be treated as living in a rural area for
purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That of the amounts available under this
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct
loans for individuals whose homes will be
built pursuant to a program funded with a
mutual and self-help housing grant author-
ized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949
until June 1, 2019: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall implement provisions to pro-
vide incentives to nonprofit organizations
and public housing authorities to facilitate
the acquisition of Rural Housing Service
(RHS) multifamily housing properties by
such nonprofit organizations and public
housing authorities that commit to keep
such properties in the RHS multifamily
housing program for a period of time as de-
termined by the Secretary, with such incen-
tives to include, but not be limited to, the
following: allow such nonprofit entities and
public housing authorities to earn a Return
on Investment on their own resources to in-
clude proceeds from low income housing tax
credit syndication, own contributions,
grants, and developer loans at favorable
rates and terms, invested in a deal; and allow
reimbursement of organizational costs asso-
ciated with owner’s oversight of asset re-
ferred to as ‘‘Asset Management Fee’’ of up
to $7,500 per property.
In addition, for the cost of direct loans,
grants, and contracts, as authorized by sec-
tions 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $16,853,000, to remain
available until expended, for direct farm
labor housing loans and domestic farm labor
housing grants and contracts: Provided, That
any balances available for the Farm Labor
Program Account shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed pursuant to the authority
under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of
1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of
debt forgiveness or payments for eligible
households as authorized by section
502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949,
$1,331,400,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020; and in ad-
dition such sums as may be necessary, as au-
thorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liq-
uidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992
to carry out the rental assistance program
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided,
That rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed during the current fiscal
year shall be funded for a one-year period:
Provided further, That any unexpended bal-
ances remaining at the end of such one-year
agreements may be transferred and used for
purposes of any debt reduction; mainte-
nance, repair, or rehabilitation of any exist-
ing projects; preservation; and rental assist-
ance activities authorized under title V of
the Act: Provided further, That rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a farm labor
multi-family housing project financed under
section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be re-
captured for use in another project until
such assistance has remained unused for a
period of 12 consecutive months, if such
project has a waiting list of tenants seeking
such assistance or the project has rental as-
sistance eligible tenants who are not receiv-
ing such assistance: Provided further, That
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to
the extent practicable, be applied to another
farm labor multi-family housing project fi-
nanced under section 514 or 516 of the Act:
Provided further, That except as provided in
the third proviso under this heading and not-
withstanding any other provision of the Act,
the Secretary may recapture rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a project that the
Secretary determines no longer needs rental
assistance and use such recaptured funds for
current needs.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVITALIZATION
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the rural housing voucher program as
authorized under section 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection
(b) of such section, and for additional costs
to conduct a demonstration program for the
preservation and revitalization of multi-fam-
ily rental housing properties described in
this paragraph, $51,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the
funds made available under this heading,
$27,000,000, shall be available for rural hous-
ing vouchers to any low-income household
(including those not receiving rental assist-
ance) residing in a property financed with a
section 515 loan which has been prepaid after
September 30, 2005: Provided further, That the
amount of such voucher shall be the dif-
ference between comparable market rent for
the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent
for such unit: Provided further, That funds
made available for such vouchers shall be
subject to the availability of annual appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, administer such vouchers with cur-
rent regulations and administrative guid-
ance applicable to section 8 housing vouchers
administered by the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development:
Provided further, That if the Secretary deter-
mines that the amount made available for
vouchers in this or any other Act is not
needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use
such funds for the demonstration program
for the preservation and revitalization of
multi-family rental housing properties de-
scribed in this paragraph: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under this
heading, $24,500,000 shall be available for a
demonstration program for the preservation
and revitalization of the sections 514, 515,
and 516 multi-family rental housing prop-
erties to restructure existing USDA multi-
family housing loans, as the Secretary deems
appropriate, expressly for the purposes of en-
suring the project has sufficient resources to
preserve the project for the purpose of pro-
viding safe and affordable housing for low-in-
come residents and farm laborers including
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring
loan payments, subordinating, reducing or
reamortizing loan debt; and other financial
assistance including advances, payments and
incentives (including the ability of owners to
obtain reasonable returns on investment) re-
quired by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall as part of the pres-
ervation and revitalization agreement obtain
a restrictive use agreement consistent with
the terms of the restructuring: Provided fur-
ther, That if the Secretary determines that
additional funds for vouchers described in
this paragraph are needed, funds for the pres-
ervation and revitalization demonstration
program may be used for such vouchers: Pro-
vided further, That if Congress enacts legisla-
tion to permanently authorize a multi-fam-
ily rental housing loan restructuring pro-
gram similar to the demonstration program
described herein, the Secretary may use
funds made available for the demonstration
program under this heading to carry out
such legislation with the prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress: Provided further, That in
addition to any other available funds, the
Secretary may expend not more than
$1,000,000 total, from the program funds made
available under this heading, for administra-
tive expenses for activities funded under this
heading.
MUTUAL AND SELF-HELP HOUSING GRANTS
For grants and contracts pursuant to sec-
tion 523(b)(1)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
RURAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For grants for very low-income housing re-
pair and rural housing preservation made by
the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by
42 U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $45,000,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by section 306 and described in sec-
tion 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, $2,800,000,000 for di-
rect loans and $148,287,000 for guaranteed
loans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S333
January 22, 2019
For the cost of guaranteed loans, including
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, $4,285,000, to remain available until
expended.
For the cost of grants for rural community
facilities programs as authorized by section
306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act, $45,778,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $6,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be available for a Rural Community
Development Initiative: Provided further,
That such funds shall be used solely to de-
velop the capacity and ability of private,
nonprofit community-based housing and
community development organizations, low-
income rural communities, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes to un-
dertake projects to improve housing, com-
munity facilities, community and economic
development projects in rural areas: Provided
further, That such funds shall be made avail-
able to qualified private, nonprofit and pub-
lic intermediary organizations proposing to
carry out a program of financial and tech-
nical assistance: Provided further, That such
intermediary organizations shall provide
matching funds from other sources, includ-
ing Federal funds for related activities, in an
amount not less than funds provided: Pro-
vided further, That $5,778,000 of the amount
appropriated under this heading shall be to
provide grants for facilities in rural commu-
nities with extreme unemployment and se-
vere economic depression (Public Law 106–
387), with up to 5 percent for administration
and capacity building in the State rural de-
velopment offices: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be available for commu-
nity facilities grants to tribal colleges, as
authorized by section 306(a)(19) of such Act:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL BUSINESS—COOPERATIVE SERVICE
RURAL BUSINESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of loan guarantees and grants,
for the rural business development programs
authorized by section 310B and described in
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $65,040,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $500,000 shall be made available for one
grant to a qualified national organization to
provide technical assistance for rural trans-
portation in order to promote economic de-
velopment and $8,000,000 shall be for grants
to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C.
2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional
Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the
Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C.
14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Ad-
vancement Program purpose as described in
section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, of which not more
than 5 percent may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for business grants to
benefit Federally Recognized Native Amer-
ican Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to
a qualified national organization to provide
technical assistance for rural transportation
in order to promote economic development:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to funds
made available under this heading.
INTERMEDIARY RELENDING PROGRAM FUND
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b),
$18,889,000.
For the cost of direct loans, $4,157,000, as
authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of
which $557,000 shall be available through
June 30, 2019, for Federally Recognized Na-
tive American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000
shall be available through June 30, 2019, for
Mississippi Delta Region counties (as deter-
mined in accordance with Public Law 100–
460): Provided, That such costs, including the
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as de-
fined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan programs, $4,468,000
shall be transferred to and merged with the
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Development, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’.
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANS
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized under section 313 of the Rural
Electrification Act, for the purpose of pro-
moting rural economic development and job
creation projects, $50,000,000.
The cost of grants authorized under sec-
tion 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for
the purpose of promoting rural economic de-
velopment and job creation projects shall
not exceed $10,000,000.
RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
For rural cooperative development grants
authorized under section 310B(e) of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
(7 U.S.C. 1932), $29,100,000, of which $2,800,000
shall be for cooperative agreements for the
appropriate technology transfer for rural
areas program: Provided, That not to exceed
$3,000,000 shall be for grants for cooperative
development centers, individual coopera-
tives, or groups of cooperatives that serve
socially disadvantaged groups and a major-
ity of the boards of directors or governing
boards of which are comprised of individuals
who are members of socially disadvantaged
groups; and of which $17,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for value-
added agricultural product market develop-
ment grants, as authorized by section 231 of
the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000
(7 U.S.C. 1632a), of which $2,500,000 may be
used for Agriculture Innovation Centers au-
thorized pursuant to section 6402 of Public
Law 107–171.
RURAL ENERGY FOR AMERICA PROGRAM
For the cost of a program of loan guaran-
tees, under the same terms and conditions as
authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107), $334,500: Provided, That the cost
of loan guarantees, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974.
RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE
RURAL WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans as authorized by sec-
tion 306 and described in section 381E(d)(2) of
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $1,400,000,000. For loan guarantees
and grants for rural water, waste water,
waste disposal, and solid waste management
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A,
306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in
sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2)
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $548,690,000, to remain available
until expended, of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall be available for the rural util-
ities program described in section
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to
exceed $1,500,000 shall be available for the
rural utilities program described in section
306E of such Act: Provided, That not to ex-
ceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be for grants au-
thorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act in
addition to funding authorized by section
306A(i)(1) of such Act and such grants may
not exceed $1,000,000 notwithstanding section
306A(f)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That
$68,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for loans and grants in-
cluding water and waste disposal systems
grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B)
and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes author-
ized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funding provided for section 306D
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act may be provided to a consortium
formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law
105–83: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the funding provided for section
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act may be used by the State of
Alaska for training and technical assistance
programs and not more than 2 percent of the
funding provided for section 306D of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
may be used by a consortium formed pursu-
ant to section 325 of Public Law 105–83 for
training and technical assistance programs:
Provided further, That not to exceed
$30,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for technical assistance
grants for rural water and waste systems
pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, un-
less the Secretary makes a determination of
extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be
made available for a grant to a qualified
nonprofit multi-State regional technical as-
sistance organization, with experience in
working with small communities on water
and waste water problems, the principal pur-
pose of such grant shall be to assist rural
communities with populations of 3,300 or
less, in improving the planning, financing,
development, operation, and management of
water and waste water systems, and of which
not less than $800,000 shall be for a qualified
national Native American organization to
provide technical assistance for rural water
systems for tribal communities: Provided fur-
ther, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be for contracting with qualified na-
tional organizations for a circuit rider pro-
gram to provide technical assistance for
rural water systems: Provided further, That
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid
waste management grants: Provided further,
That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be transferred to,
and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service,
High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide
grants authorized under section 19 of the
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C.
918a): Provided further, That any prior year
balances for high-energy cost grants author-
ized by section 19 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the Rural Utilities
Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S334 January 22, 2019
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
The principal amount of direct and guaran-
teed loans as authorized by sections 305, 306,
and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of
1936 (7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made
as follows: loans made pursuant to sections
305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of
that Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guar-
anteed underwriting loans pursuant to sec-
tion 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural tele-
communications loans, cost of money rural
telecommunications loans, and for loans
made pursuant to section 306 of that Act,
rural telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:
Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be
used for the construction, acquisition, design
and engineering or improvement of fossil-
fueled electric generating plants (whether
new or existing) that utilize carbon sub-
surface utilization and storage systems.
For the cost of direct loans as authorized
by section 305 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost
of modifying loans, as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost
of money rural telecommunications loans,
$1,725,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall
be transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
DISTANCE LEARNING, TELEMEDICINE, AND
BROADBAND PROGRAM
For the principal amount of broadband
telecommunication loans, $29,851,000.
For grants for telemedicine and distance
learning services in rural areas, as author-
ized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $34,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That $3,000,000 shall be made available for
grants authorized by 379G of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act: Pro-
vided further, That funding provided under
this heading for grants under 379G of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act may only be provided to entities that
meet all of the eligibility criteria for a con-
sortium as established by this section.
For the cost of broadband loans, as author-
ized by section 601 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act, $5,830,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the cost of direct
loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for a grant program to fi-
nance broadband transmission in rural areas
eligible for Distance Learning and Telemedi-
cine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C.
950aaa.
TITLE IV
DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD,
NUTRITION, AND CONSUMER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and
Consumer Services, $800,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Food, Nutrition and Consumer
Services mission area for salaries and ex-
penses are available to fund up to one admin-
istrative support staff for the Office.
FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21,
and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21;
$23,140,781,000 to remain available through
September 30, 2020, of which such sums as are
made available under section 14222(b)(1) of
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–246), as amended by this
Act, shall be merged with and available for
the same time period and purposes as pro-
vided herein: Provided, That of the total
amount available, $17,004,000 shall be avail-
able to carry out section 19 of the Child Nu-
trition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):
Provided further, That of the total amount
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to
provide competitive grants to State agencies
for subgrants to local educational agencies
and schools to purchase the equipment, with
a value of greater than $1,000, needed to
serve healthier meals, improve food safety,
and to help support the establishment, main-
tenance, or expansion of the school breakfast
program: Provided further, That of the total
amount available, $28,000,000 shall remain
available until expended to carry out section
749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act
of 2010 (Public Law 111–80): Provided further,
That section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C.
1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by
striking ‘‘2010 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘2010 through 2019’’: Provided further, That
section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3))
is amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2019’’: Provided further, That section
9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is
amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2019’’.
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
special supplemental nutrition program as
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,075,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2020: Provided, That notwithstanding section
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than $60,000,000
shall be used for breastfeeding peer coun-
selors and other related activities, and
$19,000,000 shall be used for infrastructure, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for telehealth com-
petitive grants to supplement the nutrition
education and breastfeeding support offered
in the WIC clinic, and to decrease barriers to
access to WIC services, particularly in rural
communities, and other populations facing
barriers to accessing support: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
account shall be available for the purchase of
infant formula except in accordance with the
cost containment and competitive bidding
requirements specified in section 17 of such
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds
provided shall be available for activities that
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal
Government departments or agencies unless
authorized by section 17 of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That upon termination of a fed-
erally mandated vendor moratorium and
subject to terms and conditions established
by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive
the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the
request of a State agency.
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.), $73,476,921,000, of which $3,000,000,000,
to remain available through December 31,
2020, shall be placed in reserve for use only in
such amounts and at such times as may be-
come necessary to carry out program oper-
ations: Provided, That funds provided herein
shall be expended in accordance with section
16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading, $998,000 may be used
to provide nutrition education services to
State agencies and Federally Recognized
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution
Program on Indian Reservations: Provided
further, That this appropriation shall be sub-
ject to any work registration or workfare re-
quirements as may be required by law: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
Employment and Training under this head-
ing shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That funds
made available under this heading for sec-
tion 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020:
Provided further, That none of the funds made
available under this heading may be obli-
gated or expended in contravention of sec-
tion 213A of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A): Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing may be used to enter into contracts and
employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations,
or to conduct activities related to program
integrity provided that such activities are
authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008.
COMMODITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out dis-
aster assistance and the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program as authorized by sec-
tion 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note);
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983;
special assistance for the nuclear affected is-
lands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the
Compact of Free Association Amendments
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–188); and the
Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, as au-
thorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966, $322,139,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2020: Provided,
That none of these funds shall be available
to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion for commodities donated to the pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, effective with
funds made available in fiscal year 2019 to
support the Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutri-
tion Program, as authorized by section 4402
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment
Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2020: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under sec-
tion 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use
up to 15 percent for costs associated with the
distribution of commodities: Provided fur-
ther, That $30,000,000 of prior year unobli-
gated balances of the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program shall be transferred to
The Emergency Food Assistance Program to
be used for administrative expenses.
NUTRITION PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Food and Nutrition Service for carrying
out any domestic nutrition assistance pro-
gram, $164,688,000, of which $12,297,000 shall
remain available through September 30, 2021,
for the development and dissemination of the
Dietary Guidelines for Americans: Provided,
That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404
of Public Law 107–171, as amended by section
4401 of Public Law 110–246.
TITLE V
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR TRADE
AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agri-
cultural Affairs, $875,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S335
January 22, 2019
agency in the Trade and Foreign Agricul-
tural Affairs mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CODEX ALIMENTARIUS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Codex Alimentarius, $3,976,000, including not
to exceed $40,000 for official reception and
representation expenses.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Foreign Ag-
ricultural Service, including not to exceed
$250,000 for representation allowances and for
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act ap-
proved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766),
$213,890,000, of which no more than 6 percent
shall remain available until September 30,
2020, for overseas operations to include the
payment of locally employed staff: Provided,
That the Service may utilize advances of
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for ex-
penditures made on behalf of Federal agen-
cies, public and private organizations and in-
stitutions under agreements executed pursu-
ant to the agricultural food production as-
sistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the for-
eign assistance programs of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available for middle-income country training
programs, funds made available for the
Borlaug International Agricultural Science
and Technology Fellowship program, and up
to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural
Service appropriation solely for the purpose
of offsetting fluctuations in international
currency exchange rates, subject to docu-
mentation by the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, shall remain available until expended.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE I DIRECT CREDIT AND
FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the credit program of title I, Food for Peace
Act (Public Law 83–480) and the Food for
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Ex-
penses’’.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE II GRANTS
For expenses during the current fiscal
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unre-
covered prior years’ costs, including interest
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480), for commodities supplied in
connection with dispositions abroad under
title II of said Act, $1,500,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
MCGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR
EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 3107 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 1736o–1), $210,255,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $1,000,000 is for
the use of recently developed potable water
technologies in school feeding projects: Pro-
vided, That the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion is authorized to provide the services, fa-
cilities, and authorities for the purpose of
implementing such section, subject to reim-
bursement from amounts provided herein:
Provided further, That of the amount made
available under this heading, $15,000,000,
shall remain available until expended for
necessary expenses to carry out the provi-
sions of section 3207 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION EXPORT
(LOANS) CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the Commodity Credit Corporation’s Export
Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103,
$8,845,000; to cover common overhead ex-
penses as permitted by section 11 of the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act and
in conformity with the Federal Credit Re-
form Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Foreign Agricultural Service,
Salaries and Expenses’’, and of which
$2,463,000 shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm Service
Agency, Salaries and Expenses’’.
TITLE VI
RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Food and
Drug Administration, including hire and pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles; for pay-
ment of space rental and related costs pursu-
ant to Public Law 92–313 for programs and
activities of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion which are included in this Act; for rent-
al of special purpose space in the District of
Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to
amounts appropriated to the FDA Innova-
tion Account, for carrying out the activities
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255); for mis-
cellaneous and emergency expenses of en-
forcement activities, authorized and ap-
proved by the Secretary and to be accounted
for solely on the Secretary’s certificate, not
to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding sec-
tion 521 of Public Law 107–188; $5,584,965,000:
Provided, That of the amount provided under
this heading, $1,010,323,000 shall be derived
from prescription drug user fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to
this account and remain available until ex-
pended; $204,730,000 shall be derived from
medical device user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this ac-
count and remain available until expended;
$501,721,000 shall be derived from human ge-
neric drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–42, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$38,847,000 shall be derived from biosimilar
biological product user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j–52, and shall be credited to this
account and remain available until ex-
pended; $30,331,000 shall be derived from ani-
mal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–12, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$18,335,000 shall be derived from generic new
animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–21, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco
product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
387s, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to and not-
withstanding any other provision under this
heading, amounts collected for prescription
drug user fees, medical device user fees,
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar bio-
logical product user fees, animal drug user
fees, and generic new animal drug user fees
that exceed the respective fiscal year 2019
limitations are appropriated and shall be
credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
fees derived from prescription drug, medical
device, human generic drug, biosimilar bio-
logical product, animal drug, and generic
new animal drug assessments for fiscal year
2019, including any such fees collected prior
to fiscal year 2019 but credited for fiscal year
2019, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2019
limitations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may accept payment during fiscal
year 2019 of user fees specified under this
heading and authorized for fiscal year 2020,
prior to the due date for such fees, and that
amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year
2020 for which the Secretary accepts pay-
ment in fiscal year 2019 shall not be included
in amounts under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That none of these funds shall be used
to develop, establish, or operate any program
of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount ap-
propriated: (1) $1,059,980,000 shall be for the
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutri-
tion and related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than
$15,000,000 shall be used for inspections of for-
eign seafood manufacturers and field exami-
nations of imported seafood; (2) $1,879,927,000
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research and related field activities in
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3)
$402,144,000 shall be for the Center for Bio-
logics Evaluation and Research and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (4) $223,611,000 shall be for the
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (5) $556,179,000 shall be for the
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
and for related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $66,712,000 shall be
for the National Center for Toxicological Re-
search; (7) $666,832,000 shall be for the Center
for Tobacco Products and for related field
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs;
(8) $173,847,000 shall be for Rent and Related
activities, of which $50,587,000 is for White
Oak Consolidation, other than the amounts
paid to the General Services Administration
for rent; (9) $237,849,000 shall be for payments
to the General Services Administration for
rent; and (10) $317,884,000 shall be for other
activities, including the Office of the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of
Foods and Veterinary Medicine, the Office of
Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of
Operations, the Office of the Chief Scientist,
and central services for these offices: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of
this amount shall be for official reception
and representation expenses, not otherwise
provided for, as determined by the Commis-
sioner: Provided further, That any transfer of
funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made
available under this heading for other activi-
ties: Provided further, That of the amounts
that are made available under this heading
for ‘‘other activities’’, and that are not de-
rived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices—Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of the programs and operations of the
Food and Drug Administration and shall be
in addition to funds otherwise made avail-
able for oversight of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading, $3,000,000 shall be used by the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, in coordination
with the Secretary of Agriculture, for con-
sumer outreach and education regarding ag-
ricultural biotechnology and biotechnology-
derived food products and animal feed, in-
cluding through publication and distribution
of science-based educational information on
the environmental, nutritional, food safety,
economic, and humanitarian impacts of such
biotechnology, food products, and feed: Pro-
vided further, That funds may be transferred
from one specified activity to another with
the prior approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S336 January 22, 2019
In addition, mammography user fees au-
thorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, export certifi-
cation user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381,
priority review user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed recall
fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary
qualified importer program fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379j–31, outsourcing facility fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j–62, prescription
drug wholesale distributor licensing and in-
spection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider li-
censing and inspection fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360eee–3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and med-
ical countermeasure priority review voucher
user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4a,
and, contingent upon the enactment of the
Over-the-Counter Monograph User Fee Act of
2018, fees relating to over-the-counter mono-
graph drugs authorized by part 10 of sub-
chapter C of Chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act shall be cred-
ited to this account, to remain available
until expended.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, improve-
ment, extension, alteration, demolition, and
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of
or used by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, where not otherwise provided,
$11,788,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FDA INNOVATION ACCOUNT, CURES ACT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
purposes described under section 1002(b)(4) of
the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to
amounts available for such purposes under
the heading ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’,
$70,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That amounts appropriated
in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures
Act, are to be derived from amounts trans-
ferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act,
and may be transferred by the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs to the appropriation for
‘‘Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration Salaries and
Expenses’’ solely for the purposes provided in
such Act: Provided further, That upon a de-
termination by the Commissioner that funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
are not necessary for the purposes provided,
such amounts may be transferred back to
the account: Provided further, That such
transfer authority is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided by law.
INDEPENDENT AGENCY
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $74,600,000 (from assessments
collected from farm credit institutions, in-
cluding the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation) shall be obligated during the
current fiscal year for administrative ex-
penses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:
Provided, That this limitation shall not
apply to expenses associated with receiver-
ships: Provided further, That the agency may
exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent
with notification to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS AND TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed
by law, appropriations and authorizations
made for the Department of Agriculture for
the current fiscal year under this Act shall
be available for the purchase, in addition to
those specifically provided for, of not to ex-
ceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68
shall be for replacement only, and for the
hire of such vehicles: Provided, That notwith-
standing this section, the only purchase of
new passenger vehicles shall be for those de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary
for transportation safety, to reduce oper-
ational costs, and for the protection of life,
property, and public safety.
SEC. 702. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture
may transfer unobligated balances of discre-
tionary funds appropriated by this Act or
any other available unobligated discre-
tionary balances that are remaining avail-
able of the Department of Agriculture to the
Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of
plant and capital equipment necessary for
the delivery of financial, administrative, and
information technology services of primary
benefit to the agencies of the Department of
Agriculture, such transferred funds to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That none of the funds made available by
this Act or any other Act shall be trans-
ferred to the Working Capital Fund without
the prior approval of the agency adminis-
trator: Provided further, That none of the
funds transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to this section shall be avail-
able for obligation without written notifica-
tion to and the prior approval of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of both Houses of
Congress: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to make any changes to the De-
partment’s National Finance Center without
written notification to and prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress as required by section 717
of this Act: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, imple-
ment, or make any changes to remove or re-
locate any systems, missions, or functions of
the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or
any personnel from the National Finance
Center prior to written notification to and
prior approval of the Committee on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress and in
accordance with the requirements of section
717 of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of Agriculture and the offices of
the Chief Financial Officer shall actively
market to existing and new Departments and
other government agencies National Finance
Center shared services including, but not
limited to, payroll, financial management,
and human capital shared services and allow
the National Finance Center to perform
technology upgrades: Provided further, That
of annual income amounts in the Working
Capital Fund of the Department of Agri-
culture attributable to the amounts in ex-
cess of the true costs of the shared services
provided by the National Finance Center and
budgeted for the National Finance Center,
the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4
percent for the replacement or acquisition of
capital equipment, including equipment for
the improvement, delivery, and implementa-
tion of financial, administrative, and infor-
mation technology services, and other sys-
tems of the National Finance Center or to
pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of
the National Finance Center: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the amounts reserved
shall be available for obligation unless the
Secretary submits written notification of
the obligation to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the limitations on the ob-
ligation of funds pending notification to
Congressional Committees shall not apply to
any obligation that, as determined by the
Secretary, is necessary to respond to a de-
clared state of emergency that significantly
impacts the operations of the National Fi-
nance Center; or to evacuate employees of
the National Finance Center to a safe haven
to continue operations of the National Fi-
nance Center.
SEC. 703. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 704. No funds appropriated by this Act
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost
rates on cooperative agreements or similar
arrangements between the United States De-
partment of Agriculture and nonprofit insti-
tutions in excess of 10 percent of the total di-
rect cost of the agreement when the purpose
of such cooperative arrangements is to carry
out programs of mutual interest between the
two parties. This does not preclude appro-
priate payment of indirect costs on grants
and contracts with such institutions when
such indirect costs are computed on a simi-
lar basis for all agencies for which appropria-
tions are provided in this Act.
SEC. 705. Appropriations to the Department
of Agriculture for the cost of direct and
guaranteed loans made available in the cur-
rent fiscal year shall remain available until
expended to disburse obligations made in the
current fiscal year for the following ac-
counts: the Rural Development Loan Fund
program account, the Rural Electrification
and Telecommunication Loans program ac-
count, and the Rural Housing Insurance
Fund program account.
SEC. 706. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Agriculture by this Act
may be used to acquire new information
technology systems or significant upgrades,
as determined by the Office of the Chief In-
formation Officer, without the approval of
the Chief Information Officer and the con-
currence of the Executive Information Tech-
nology Investment Review Board: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, none of the funds appropriated or other-
wise made available by this Act may be
transferred to the Office of the Chief Infor-
mation Officer without written notification
to and the prior approval of the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing section 11319 of title 40, United
States Code, none of the funds available to
the Department of Agriculture for informa-
tion technology shall be obligated for
projects, contracts, or other agreements over
$25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by
the Chief Information Officer: Provided fur-
ther, That the Chief Information Officer may
authorize an agency to obligate funds with-
out written approval from the Chief Informa-
tion Officer for projects, contracts, or other
agreements up to $250,000 based upon the per-
formance of an agency measured against the
performance plan requirements described in
the explanatory statement accompanying
Public Law 113–235.
SEC. 707. Funds made available under sec-
tion 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
(7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year
shall remain available until expended to dis-
burse obligations made in the current fiscal
year.
SEC. 708. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any former RUS borrower that
has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility
that is eligible to receive an insured or di-
rect loan under such Act, shall be eligible for
assistance under section 313(b)(2)(B) of such
Act in the same manner as a borrower under
such Act.
SEC. 709. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not more than $20,000,000 in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S337
January 22, 2019
unobligated balances from appropriations
made available for salaries and expenses in
this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for information technology expenses: Pro-
vided, That except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, unobligated balances from
appropriations made available for salaries
and expenses in this Act for the Rural Devel-
opment mission area shall remain available
through September 30, 2020, for information
technology expenses.
SEC. 710. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used for first-class travel by the employees
of agencies funded by this Act in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 711. In the case of each program estab-
lished or amended by the Agricultural Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–79) or by a successor to
that Act, other than by title I or subtitle A
of title III of such Act, or programs for
which indefinite amounts were provided in
that Act, that is authorized or required to be
carried out using funds of the Commodity
Credit Corporation—
(1) such funds shall be available for salaries
and related administrative expenses, includ-
ing technical assistance, associated with the
implementation of the program, without re-
gard to the limitation on the total amount
of allotments and fund transfers contained in
section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
(2) the use of such funds for such purpose
shall not be considered to be a fund transfer
or allotment for purposes of applying the
limitation on the total amount of allotments
and fund transfers contained in such section.
SEC. 712. Of the funds made available by
this Act, not more than $2,900,000 shall be
used to cover necessary expenses of activi-
ties related to all advisory committees, pan-
els, commissions, and task forces of the De-
partment of Agriculture, except for panels
used to comply with negotiated rule makings
and panels used to evaluate competitively
awarded grants.
SEC. 713. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available to pay indirect costs charged
against any agricultural research, education,
or extension grant awards issued by the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture that
exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds pro-
vided under each award: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 1462 of the National Ag-
ricultural Research, Extension, and Teach-
ing Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds
provided by this Act for grants awarded com-
petitively by the National Institute of Food
and Agriculture shall be available to pay full
allowable indirect costs for each grant
awarded under section 9 of the Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 715. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of
section 14222 of Public Law 110–246 (7 U.S.C.
612c–6; in this section referred to as ‘‘section
14222’’), none of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries
and expenses of personnel to carry out a pro-
gram under section 32 of the Act of August
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred
to as ‘‘section 32’’) in excess of $1,299,600,000
(exclusive of carryover appropriations from
prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutri-
tion Programs Entitlement Commodities—
$485,000,000; State Option Contracts—
$5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commod-
ities— $2,500,000; Administration of Section
32 Commodity Purchases—$35,853,000: Pro-
vided, That of the total funds made available
in the matter preceding this proviso that re-
main unobligated on October 1, 2019, such un-
obligated balances shall carryover into fiscal
year 2020 and shall remain available until ex-
pended for any of the purposes of section 32,
except that any such carryover funds used in
accordance with clause (3) of section 32 may
not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obli-
gated until the Secretary of Agriculture pro-
vides written notification of the expendi-
tures to the Committees on Appropriations
of both Houses of Congress at least two
weeks in advance: Provided further, That,
with the exception of any available carry-
over funds authorized in any prior appropria-
tions Act to be used for the purposes of
clause (3) of section 32, none of the funds ap-
propriated or otherwise made available by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries or expenses of any employee of the
Department of Agriculture to carry out
clause (3) of section 32.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries and expenses of personnel who pre-
pare or submit appropriations language as
part of the President’s budget submission to
the Congress for programs under the juris-
diction of the Appropriations Subcommit-
tees on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a
reduction from the previous year due to user
fees proposals that have not been enacted
into law prior to the submission of the budg-
et unless such budget submission identifies
which additional spending reductions should
occur in the event the user fees proposals are
not enacted prior to the date of the con-
vening of a committee of conference for the
fiscal year 2020 appropriations Act.
SEC. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by
this Act, or provided by previous appropria-
tions Acts to the agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation or ex-
penditure in the current fiscal year, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury de-
rived by the collection of fees available to
the agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure
through a reprogramming, transfer of funds,
or reimbursements as authorized by the
Economy Act, or in the case of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, through use of the au-
thority provided by section 702(b) of the De-
partment of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944
(7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89–
106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any project or activity for which
funds have been denied or restricted;
(4) relocates an office or employees;
(5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activi-
ties; or
(6) contracts out or privatizes any func-
tions or activities presently performed by
Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (as
the case may be) notifies in writing and re-
ceives approval from the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress at
least 30 days in advance of the reprogram-
ming of such funds or the use of such author-
ity.
(b) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for ob-
ligation or expenditure for activities, pro-
grams, or projects through a reprogramming
or use of the authorities referred to in sub-
section (a) involving funds in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities;
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(3) results from any general savings from a
reduction in personnel which would result in
a change in existing programs, activities, or
projects as approved by Congress; unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (as the case may
be) notifies in writing and receives approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in
advance of the reprogramming or transfer of
such funds or the use of such authority.
(c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall notify in writing and receive approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress before imple-
menting any program or activity not carried
out during the previous fiscal year unless the
program or activity is funded by this Act or
specifically funded by any other Act.
(d) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for—
(1) modifying major capital investments
funding levels, including information tech-
nology systems, that involves increasing or
decreasing funds in the current fiscal year
for the individual investment in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent of the total cost, which-
ever is less;
(2) realigning or reorganizing new, current,
or vacant positions or agency activities or
functions to establish a center, office,
branch, or similar entity with five or more
personnel; or
(3) carrying out activities or functions that
were not described in the budget request; un-
less the agencies funded by this Act notify,
in writing, the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress at least 30
days in advance of using the funds for these
purposes.
(e) As described in this section, no funds
may be used for any activities unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services receives from
the Committee on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress written or electronic
mail confirmation of receipt of the notifica-
tion as required in this section.
SEC. 718. Notwithstanding section
310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)),
the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for
any guaranteed business and industry loan
in an amount that does not exceed 3 percent
of the guaranteed principal portion of the
loan.
SEC. 719. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, or the Farm Credit Administration
shall be used to transmit or otherwise make
available reports, questions, or responses to
questions that are a result of information re-
quested for the appropriations hearing proc-
ess to any non-Department of Agriculture,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S338 January 22, 2019
non-Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, or non-Farm Credit Administration em-
ployee.
SEC. 720. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this Act, may be used by an executive branch
agency to produce any prepackaged news
story intended for broadcast or distribution
in the United States unless the story in-
cludes a clear notification within the text or
audio of the prepackaged news story that the
prepackaged news story was prepared or
funded by that executive branch agency.
SEC. 721. No employee of the Department of
Agriculture may be detailed or assigned
from an agency or office funded by this Act
or any other Act to any other agency or of-
fice of the Department for more than 60 days
in a fiscal year unless the individual’s em-
ploying agency or office is fully reimbursed
by the receiving agency or office for the sal-
ary and expenses of the employee for the pe-
riod of assignment.
SEC. 722. For the purposes of determining
eligibility or level of program assistance for
Rural Development programs the Secretary
shall not include incarcerated prison popu-
lations.
SEC. 723. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration, and the
Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a de-
tailed spending plan by program, project,
and activity for all the funds made available
under this Act including appropriated user
fees, as defined in the joint explanatory
statement accompanying this Act.
SEC. 724. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts made available for the supple-
mental nutrition program as authorized by
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $500,000,000 are hereby re-
scinded.
SEC. 725. The Secretary shall continue an
intermediary loan packaging program based
on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502
single family direct loans. The Secretary
shall continue agreements with current
intermediary organizations and with addi-
tional qualified intermediary organizations.
The Secretary shall work with these organi-
zations to increase effectiveness of the sec-
tion 502 single family direct loan program in
rural communities and shall set aside and
make available from the national reserve
section 502 loans an amount necessary to
support the work of such intermediaries and
provide a priority for review of such loans.
SEC. 726. For loans and loan guarantees
that do not require budget authority and the
program level has been established in this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may in-
crease the program level for such loans and
loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:
Provided, That prior to the Secretary imple-
menting such an increase, the Secretary no-
tifies, in writing, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress at least
15 days in advance.
SEC. 727. None of the credit card refunds or
rebates transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public
Law 107–76) shall be available for obligation
without written notification to, and the
prior approval of, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided, That the refunds or rebates so trans-
ferred shall be available for obligation only
for the acquisition of plant and capital
equipment necessary for the delivery of fi-
nancial, administrative, and information
technology services of primary benefit to the
agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 728. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the ‘‘variety’’ require-
ments of the final rule entitled ‘‘Enhancing
Retailer Standards in the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program (SNAP)’’ pub-
lished by the Department of Agriculture in
the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81
Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agri-
culture amends the definition of the term
‘‘variety’’ as de fined in section
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal
Regulations, and ‘‘variety’’ as applied in the
definition of the term ‘‘staple food’’ as de-
fined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, to increase the number of
items that qualify as acceptable varieties in
each staple food category so that the total
number of such items in each staple food cat-
egory exceeds the number of such items in
each staple food category included in the
final rule as published on December 15, 2016:
Provided, That until the Secretary promul-
gates such regulatory amendments, the Sec-
retary shall apply the requirements regard-
ing acceptable varieties and breadth of stock
to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram retailers that were in effect on the day
before the date of the enactment of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
SEC. 729. None of the funds made available
by this Act or any other Act may be used—
(1) in contravention of section 7606 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
(2) to prohibit the transportation, proc-
essing, sale, or use of industrial hemp, or
seeds of such plant, that is grown or cul-
tivated in accordance with subsection sec-
tion 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014,
within or outside the State in which the in-
dustrial hemp is grown or cultivated.
SEC. 730. Funds provided by this or any
prior Appropriations Act for the Agriculture
and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C.
450i(b) shall be made available without re-
gard to section 7128 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the match-
ing requirements in laws in effect on the
date before the date of enactment of such
section: Provided, That the requirements of 7
U.S.C. 450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
SEC. 731. In carrying out subsection (h) of
section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture
shall have the same authority with respect
to loans guaranteed under such section and
eligible lenders for such loans as the Sec-
retary has under subsections (h) and (j) of
section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p–2)
with respect to loans guaranteed under such
section 538 and eligible lenders for such
loans.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to propose, promul-
gate, or implement any rule, or take any
other action with respect to, allowing or re-
quiring information intended for a pre-
scribing health care professional, in the case
of a drug or biological product subject to sec-
tion 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be dis-
tributed to such professional electronically
(in lieu of in paper form) unless and until a
Federal law is enacted to allow or require
such distribution.
SEC. 733. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to notify a sponsor
or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a sub-
mission for an exemption for investigational
use of a drug or biological product under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section
351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a
human embryo is intentionally created or
modified to include a heritable genetic modi-
fication. Any such submission shall be
deemed to have not been received by the Sec-
retary, and the exemption may not go into
effect.
SEC. 734. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
carry out the final rule promulgated by the
Food and Drug Administration and put into
effect November 16, 2015, in regards to the
hazard analysis and risk-based preventive
control requirements of the current good
manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and
risk-based preventive controls for food for
animals rule with respect to the regulation
of the production, distribution, sale, or re-
ceipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the
alcoholic beverage production process.
SEC. 735. Hereafter, notwithstanding 5
U.S.C.5315, the Administrator for Rural Util-
ities Service, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, shall receive basic pay at a rate not
to exceed the maximum amount of com-
pensation payable to a member of the Senior
Executive Service under subsection (b) of
section 5382 of title 5 United States Code, ex-
cept that the certification requirement in
that subsection shall not apply to the com-
pensation of the Administrator.
SEC. 736. Funds made available under title
II of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et
seq.) may only be used to provide assistance
to recipient nations if adequate monitoring
and controls, as determined by the Adminis-
trator, are in place to ensure that emergency
food aid is received by the intended bene-
ficiaries in areas affected by food shortages
and not diverted for unauthorized or inap-
propriate purposes.
SEC. 737. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Secretary of
Agriculture, acting through the Food and
Nutrition Service, to commence any new re-
search and evaluation projects until the Sec-
retary submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a re-
search and evaluation plan for fiscal year
2019, prepared in coordination with the Re-
search, Education, and Economics mission
area of the Department of Agriculture, and a
period of 30 days beginning on the date of the
submission of the plan expires to permit
Congressional review of the plan.
SEC. 738. There is hereby appropriated
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107a): Provided, That the Secretary
may allow eligible entities, or comparable
entities that provide energy efficiency serv-
ices using their own billing mechanism to
offer loans to customers in any part of their
service territory and to offer loans to replace
a manufactured housing unit with another
manufactured housing unit, if replacement
would be more cost effective in saving en-
ergy.
SEC. 739. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
shall—
(1) conduct audits in a manner that evalu-
ates the following factors in the country or
region being audited, as applicable—
(A) veterinary control and oversight;
(B) disease history and vaccination prac-
tices;
(C) livestock demographics and
traceability;
(D) epidemiological separation from poten-
tial sources of infection;
(E) surveillance practices;
(F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
(G) emergency preparedness and response;
and
(2) promptly make publicly available the
final reports of any audits or reviews con-
ducted pursuant to subsection (1).
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under its international trade agree-
ments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S339
January 22, 2019
SEC. 740. No food that bears or contains
partially hydrogenated oils (as defined in the
order published by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration in the Federal Register on June
17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et seq.)) shall be
considered to be adulterated within the
meaning of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(C)(i) of
section 402 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 342(a)) because such
food contains such partially hydrogenated
oils until the applicable compliance dates
specified by FDA in the Federal Register on
May 21, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 23358 et seq.).
SEC. 741. For fiscal years 2019 through 2025,
the Administrators of the Agricultural Re-
search Service and the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service may make not to
exceed 50 appointments in any fiscal year for
employees of such agencies at the National
Bio- and Agro-defense Facility (NBAF) in
Manhattan, Kansas: Provided, That such ap-
pointments may be made in the manner pro-
vided by 7 U.S.C. 7657(b)(4)(A)(i–v): Provided
further, That such appointments may be
made at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the
rate payable for such positions under the
General Schedule or other applicable sched-
ule, as appropriate, but may not be more
than the rate payable for a position at level
I of the Executive Schedule, unless the rate
is approved by the President under section
5377(d)(2) of title 5.
SEC. 742. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000 for the Secretary to carry out a
pilot program that provides forestry inven-
tory analysis, forest management and eco-
nomic outcomes modelling for certain cur-
rently enrolled Conservation Reserve Pro-
gram participants. The Secretary shall allow
the Commodity Credit Corporation to enter
into agreements with and provide grants to
qualified non-profit organizations dedicated
to conservation, forestry and wildlife habi-
tats, that also have experience in conducting
accurate forest inventory analysis through
the use of advanced, cost-effective tech-
nology. The Secretary shall focus the anal-
ysis on lands enrolled for at least eight years
and located in areas with a substantial con-
centration of acres enrolled under conserva-
tion practices devoted to multiple bottom-
land hardwood tree species including CP03,
CP03A, CP11, CP22, CP31 and CP40.
SEC. 743. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this Act and notwith-
standing the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310,
there is appropriated $4,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to implement non-
renewable agreements on eligible lands, in-
cluding flooded agricultural lands, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, under the Water
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301–1311).
SEC. 744. There is hereby appropriated
$1,996,000 to carry out section 1621 of Public
Law 110–246.
SEC. 745. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to carry out any ac-
tivities or incur any expense related to the
issuance of licenses under section 3 of the
Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2133), or the re-
newal of such licenses, to class B dealers who
sell dogs and cats for use in research, experi-
ments, teaching, or testing.
SEC. 746. There is appropriated $6,000,000 to
the Commodity Credit Corporation, in addi-
tion to amounts otherwise made available,
for section 1110(f)(3) of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o(f)(3)).
SEC. 747. (a)(1) No Federal funds made
available for this fiscal year for the rural
water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid
waste management programs authorized by
sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall be used
for a project for the construction, alteration,
maintenance, or repair of a public water or
wastewater system unless all of the iron and
steel products used in the project are pro-
duced in the United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and steel
products’’ means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Sec-
retary of Agriculture (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) or the designee
of the Secretary finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities or of a satisfactory
quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Secretary or the designee re-
ceives a request for a waiver under this sec-
tion, the Secretary or the designee shall
make available to the public on an informal
basis a copy of the request and information
available to the Secretary or the designee
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Secretary or the des-
ignee shall make the request and accom-
panying information available by electronic
means, including on the official public Inter-
net Web site of the Department.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25
percent of the funds appropriated in this Act
for ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural Water
and Waste Disposal Program Account’’ for
carrying out the provisions described in sub-
section (a)(1) for management and oversight
of the requirements of this section.
(f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with re-
spect to a project for which the engineering
plans and specifications include use of iron
and steel products otherwise prohibited by
such subsection if the plans and specifica-
tions have received required approvals from
State agencies prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(g) For purposes of this section, the terms
‘‘United States’’ and ‘‘State’’ shall include
each of the several States, the District of Co-
lumbia, and each federally recognized Indian
tribe.
SEC. 748. The Secretary shall set aside for
Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP)
Zones, until August 15, 2019, an amount of
funds made available in title III under the
headings of Rural Housing Insurance Fund
Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help
Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance
Grants, Rural Community Facilities Pro-
gram Account, Rural Business Program Ac-
count, Rural Development Loan Fund Pro-
gram Account, and Rural Water and Waste
Disposal Program Account, equal to the
amount obligated in REAP Zones with re-
spect to funds provided under such headings
in the most recent fiscal year any such funds
were obligated under such headings for
REAP Zones.
SEC. 749. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for a pilot program for the Secretary
to provide grants to qualified non-profit or-
ganizations and public housing authorities
to provide technical assistance, including fi-
nancial and legal services, to RHS multi-
family housing borrowers to facilitate the
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing
properties in areas where the Secretary de-
termines a risk of loss of affordable housing,
by non-profit housing organizations and pub-
lic housing authorities as authorized by law
that commit to keep such properties in the
RHS multi-family housing program for a pe-
riod of time as determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 750. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used in any way, directly or
indirectly, to influence congressional action
on any legislation or appropriation matters
pending before Congress, other than to com-
municate to Members of Congress as de-
scribed in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
SEC. 751. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall carry out a pilot program dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 with respect to the 2018
crop year for county-level agriculture risk
coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), that provides all or some of the
State Farm Service Agency offices in each
State the opportunity to provide agricul-
tural producers in the State a supplemental
payment described in subsection (c) based on
the alternate calculation method described
in subsection (b) for 1 or more counties in a
State if the office for that State determines
that the alternate calculation method is nec-
essary to ensure that, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable, there are not significant
yield calculation disparities between com-
parable counties in the State.
(b) The alternate calculation method re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is a method of cal-
culating the actual yield for the 2018 crop
year for county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), under which—
(1) county data of the National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service (referred to in this
section as ‘‘NASS data’’) is used for the cal-
culations;
(2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
county (as determined under standards of
the Secretary in effect as of the date of en-
actment of this Act) or the available NASS
data produces a substantially disparate re-
sult, the calculation of the county yield is
determined using comparable contiguous
county NASS data as determined by the
Farm Service Agency office in the applicable
State; and
(3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
comparable contiguous county (as deter-
mined under standards of the Secretary in
effect as of the date of enactment of this
Act), the calculation of the county yield is
determined using reliable yield data from
other sources, such as Risk Management
Agency data, National Agricultural Statis-
tics Service district data, National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service State yield data, or
other data as determined by the Farm Serv-
ice Agency office in the applicable State.
(c)(1) A supplemental payment made under
the pilot program established under this sec-
tion may be made to an agricultural pro-
ducer who is subject to the alternate calcula-
tion method described in subsection (b) if
that agricultural producer would otherwise
receive a county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payment for the 2018 crop year in an
amount that is less than the payment that
the agricultural producer would receive
under the alternate calculation method.
(2) The amount of a supplemental payment
to an agricultural producer under this sec-
tion may not exceed the difference between—
(A) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would have received without the alter-
nate calculation method described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would receive using the alternate cal-
culation method.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S340 January 22, 2019
(d)(1) There is appropriated to the Sec-
retary, out of funds of the Treasury not oth-
erwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, to carry
out the pilot program described in this sec-
tion.
(2) Of the funds appropriated, the Sec-
retary shall use not more than $5,000,000 to
carry out the pilot program described in this
section.
(e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable,
the Secretary shall select States to partici-
pate in the pilot program under this section
so the cost of the pilot program equals the
amount provided under subsection (d).
(2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot
program exceeds the amount made available,
the Secretary shall reduce all payments
under the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
(f) Nothing in this section affects the cal-
culation of actual yield for purposes of coun-
ty-level agriculture risk coverage payments
under section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)) other than
payments made in accordance with the pilot
program under this section.
(g) A calculation of actual yield made
using the alternate calculation method de-
scribed in subsection (b) shall not be used as
a basis for any agriculture risk coverage
payment determinations under section 1117
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017)
other than for purposes of the pilot program
under this section.
SEC. 752. The Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary’s designees are hereby granted
the same access to information and subject
to the same requirements applicable to the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment as provided in section 453 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653) and section
6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify
the income for individuals participating in
sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and
1490r), notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of
the Social Security Act.
SEC. 753. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to procure raw or
processed poultry products imported into the
United States from the People’s Republic of
China for use in the school lunch program
under the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the
Child and Adult Care Food Program under
section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766), the
Summer Food Service Program for Children
under section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761),
or the school breakfast program under the
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et
seq.).
SEC. 754. (a) Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Agriculture and the Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs shall enter into a
formal agreement under which the respon-
sibilities of the two agencies for the regula-
tion of cell-cultured food products derived
from livestock and poultry are delineated as
follows:
(1) The Food and Drug Administration
shall be responsible for overseeing cell col-
lection, cell banks, and cell growth and dif-
ferentiation.
(2) The Food and Drug Administration and
the Department of Agriculture shall effect
the transition from the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration to the Department of Agri-
culture of oversight authority during the
cell harvest stage.
(3) The Department of Agriculture shall be
responsible for overseeing the processing,
preparation, packaging, and labeling of such
food products, after the oversight transfer
during the cell harvest phase.
(b)(1) Section 1(j) of the Federal Meat In-
spection Act (21 U.S.C. 601(j)) is amended in
the first sentence by inserting ‘‘or, during
and after harvest, cell-cultured products de-
rived from amenable species,’’ before ‘‘ex-
cepting products’’.
(2) Section 4(f) of the Poultry Products In-
spection Act (21 U.S.C. 453(f)) is amended by
striking ‘‘or part thereof, excepting’’ and in-
serting ‘‘or part thereof, or, during and after
harvest, cell-cultured products derived from
poultry, excepting’’.
SEC. 755. In response to an eligible commu-
nity where the drinking water supplies are
inadequate due to a natural disaster, as de-
termined by the Secretary, including
drought or severe weather, the Secretary
may provide potable water through the
Emergency Community Water Assistance
Grant Program for an additional period of
time not to exceed 120 days beyond the es-
tablished period provided under the Program
in order to protect public health.
SEC. 756. Of the total amounts made avail-
able by this Act for direct loans and grants
in the following headings: ‘‘Rural Housing
Service—Rural Housing Insurance Fund Pro-
gram Account’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants’’;
‘‘Rural Housing Service—Rural Housing As-
sistance Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Rural Community Facilities Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Business Program Account’’;
‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Service—Rural
Economic Development Loans Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Cooperative Development
Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Water and Waste Disposal Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Electrification and Telecommunications
Loans Program Account’’; and ‘‘Rural Utili-
ties Service—Distance Learning, Telemedi-
cine, and Broadband Program’’, to the max-
imum extent feasible, at least 10 percent of
the funds shall be allocated for assistance in
persistent poverty counties under this sec-
tion, including, notwithstanding any other
provision regarding population limits, any
county seat of such a persistent poverty
county that has a population that does not
exceed the authorized population limit by
more than 10 percent: Provided, That for pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘persistent
poverty counties’’ means any county that
has had 20 percent or more of its population
living in poverty over the past 30 years, as
measured by the 1980, 1990, and 2000 decennial
censuses, and 2007–2011 American Community
Survey 5-year average: Provided further, That
with respect to specific activities for which
program levels have been made available by
this Act that are not supported by budget
authority, the requirements of this section
shall be applied to such program level.
SEC. 757. (a) No funds shall be used to final-
ize the proposed rule entitled ‘‘Eligibility of
the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to Ex-
port to the United States Poultry Products
from Birds Slaughtered in the PRC’’ pub-
lished in the Federal Register by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture on June 16, 2017 (82 Fed.
Reg. 27625), unless the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that the poultry slaughter in-
spection system for the PRC is equivalent to
that of the United States;
(2) ensure that, before any poultry prod-
ucts can enter the United States from any
such poultry plant, such poultry products
comply with all other applicable require-
ments for poultry products in interstate
commerce in the United States;
(3) conduct periodic verification reviews
and audits of any such plants in the PRC in-
tending to export into the United States
processed poultry products;
(4) conduct re-inspection of such poultry
products at United States ports-of-entry to
check the general condition of such prod-
ucts, for the proper certification and label-
ing of such products, and for any damage to
such products that may have occurred dur-
ing transportation; and
(5) ensure that shipments of any such poul-
try products selected to enter the United
States are subject to additional re-inspec-
tion procedures at appropriate levels to
verify that the products comply with rel-
evant Federal regulations or standards, in-
cluding examinations for product defects and
laboratory analyses to detect harmful chem-
ical residues or pathogen testing appropriate
for the products involved.
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with obligations of the United
States under any trade agreement to which
the United States is a party.
SEC. 758. In addition to any other funds
made available in this Act or any other Act,
there is appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out
section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)),
to remain available until expended.
SEC. 759. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Food and
Drug Administration to develop, issue, pro-
mote, or advance any regulations applicable
to food manufacturers for population-wide
sodium reduction actions or to develop,
issue, promote or advance final guidance ap-
plicable to food manufacturers for long term
population-wide sodium reduction actions
until the date on which a dietary reference
intake report with respect to sodium is com-
pleted.
SEC. 760. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the cost of loans and
grants that is consistent with section 4206 of
the Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary
expenses of the Secretary to support projects
that provide access to healthy food in under-
served areas, to create and preserve quality
jobs, and to revitalize low-income commu-
nities.
SEC. 761. For an additional amount for
‘‘Animal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice—Salaries and Expenses’’, $8,500,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, for
one-time control and management and asso-
ciated activities directly related to the mul-
tiple-agency response to citrus greening.
SEC. 762. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to en-
force the final rule promulgated by the Food
and Drug Administration entitled ‘‘Stand-
ards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing,
and Holding of Produce for Human Consump-
tion,’’ and published on November 27, 2015,
with respect to the regulation of the produc-
tion, distribution, sale, or receipt of grape
varietals that are grown, harvested and used
solely for wine and receive commercial proc-
essing that adequately reduces the presence
of microorganisms of public health signifi-
cance.
SEC. 763. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to revoke an excep-
tion made—
(1) pursuant to the final rule of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture entitled ‘‘Exceptions to
Geographic Areas for Official Agencies Under
the USGSA’’ (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 (April 18,
2003)); and
(2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
SEC. 764. For school year 2019–2020, only a
school food authority that had a negative
balance in the nonprofit school food service
account as of December 31, 2018, shall be re-
quired to establish a price for paid lunches in
accordance with Section 12(p) of the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42
U.S.C. 1760(p).
SEC. 765. There is hereby appropriated
$16,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for tele-
medicine and distance learning services in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S341
January 22, 2019
rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa
et seq., to help address the opioid epidemic
in rural America.
SEC. 766. (a) There is hereby appropriated
$125,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for Sec. 779
of Public Law 115–141.
(b) Section 313 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 940c), shall
be applied for fiscal year 2019 as if the fol-
lowing were inserted after the final period in
subsection (b)(2)(B): ‘‘In addition, the Sec-
retary shall use $425,000,000 of funds available
in fiscal year 2019 for an additional amount
for the same purpose as funds appropriated
by Sec. 779 of Public Law 115–141.’’: Provided,
That any use of such funds shall be treated
as a reprogramming of funds under section
717 of this Act.
SEC. 767. For an additional amount for the
cost of direct loans and grants made under
the ‘‘Rural Water and Waste Disposal Pro-
gram Account’’, $75,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
SEC. 768. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for a pilot program for the
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
to provide grants to nonprofit organizations
for programs and services to establish and
enhance farming and ranching opportunities
for military veterans.
SEC. 769. Not later than September 30, 2019,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall finalize the draft guidance for industry
entitled ‘‘Bacterial Risk Control Strategies
for Blood Collection Establishments and
Transfusion Services to Enhance the Safety
and Availability of Platelets for Trans-
fusion’’ issued by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration in March of 2016.
SEC. 770. Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this section, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a re-
port to the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress that includes a sum-
mary of the process used in establishing the
2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans
published pursuant to section 301 of the Na-
tional Nutrition Monitoring and Related Re-
search Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5341) and an ex-
planation with respect to the decision to in-
corporate or exclude in such Dietary Guide-
lines for Americans recommendations from
the report by the National Academies of
Science, Engineering, and Medicine entitled
‘‘Redesigning the Process for Establishing
the Dietary Guidelines for Americans’’ and
issued September, 2017.
SEC. 771. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the requirement in the
final rule entitled ‘‘Food Labeling: Revision
of the Nutrition and Supplement Facts La-
bels’’, published in the Federal Register on
May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 33742), that any
single ingredient sugar, honey, agave, or
syrup (including maple syrup) that is pack-
aged and offered for sale as a single ingre-
dient food bear the declaration ‘‘Includes
‘X’g Added Sugars’’.
SEC. 772. Paragraph (4) of section 1444(a) of
the National Agricultural Research, Exten-
sion, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7
U.S.C. 3221 (a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘No more than’’ and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘For fiscal years ending
on or before September 30, 2018, no more
than’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘by an institution’’ and in-
serting ‘‘by an eligible institution under this
section’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘For fiscal years beginning on or
after October 1, 2018, the limitation specified
in the preceding sentence shall not apply and
100 percent of such funds may be carried for-
ward to the succeeding fiscal year.’’
SEC. 773. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement or en-
force the matter following the first comma
in the second sentence of footnote (c) of sec-
tion 220.8(c) of title 7, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, with respect to the substitution of
vegetables for fruits under the school break-
fast program established under section 4 of
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1773).
SEC. 774. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall provide to any State or county im-
pacted by a volcanic eruption covered by a
major disaster declared by the President in
calendar year 2018 in accordance with section
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170) technical assistance—
(1) to assess damage to agricultural pro-
duction and rural infrastructure; and
(2) to develop recovery plans for impacted
farmers, ranchers, and rural communities.
SEC. 775. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture,
in coordination with the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, shall establish a working
group (referred to in this section as the
‘‘working group’’)—
(1) to study how mangroves, kelp forests,
tidal marshes, and seagrass meadows could
help deacidify the oceans;
(2) to study emerging ocean farming prac-
tices that use kelp and seagrass to deacidify
the oceans while providing feedstock for ag-
riculture and other commercial and indus-
trial inputs; and
(3) to coordinate and conduct research to
develop and enhance pilot-scale research for
farming of kelp and seagrass in order—
(A) to deacidify ocean environments;
(B) to produce a feedstock for agriculture;
and
(C) to develop other scalable commercial
applications for kelp, seagrass, or products
derived from kelp or seagrass.
(b) The working group shall include—
(1) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(2) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration;
(3) representatives of any relevant offices
within the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration; and
(4) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
(c) Not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, the working group
shall submit to Congress a report that in-
cludes—
(1) the findings of the research described in
subsection (a);
(2) the results of the pilot-scale research
described in subsection (a)(3); and
(3) any policy recommendations based on
those findings and results.
SEC. 776. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the ways in which conserva-
tion programs administered by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service may be bet-
ter used for the conservation of ocelots
(Leopardus pardalis) and any action taken
by the Chief of the Natural Resources Con-
servation Service relating to the conserva-
tion of ocelots.
SEC. 777. Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Rural
Housing Service of the Department of Agri-
culture shall submit to Congress a report in-
cluding—
(1) a description of—
(A) the number of properties assisted under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) that are reaching the end of
their loan term;
(B) the location of each property described
in subparagraph (A);
(C) the number of units in each property
described in subparagraph (A); and
(D) the date on which each the loan for
each property described in subparagraph (A)
is expected to reach maturity;
(2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Serv-
ice to preserve the long-term affordability of
the properties described in paragraph (1)(A)
when the loan matures; and
(3) a description of the resources and tools
that the Rural Housing Service needs from
Congress in order to preserve the long-term
affordability of the properties described in
paragraph (1) (A).
SEC. 778. Out of amounts appropriated to
the Food and Drug Administration under
title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, shall, not later than July
1, 2019, and following the review required
under Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601
note; relating to regulatory planning and re-
view), issue advice revising the advice pro-
vided in the notice of availability entitled
‘‘Advice About Eating Fish, From the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency and Food and
Drug Administration; Revised Fish Advice;
Availability’’ (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19,
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with
nutrition science recognized by the Food and
Drug Administration on the net effects of
seafood consumption.
SEC. 779. In addition to any funds made
available in this Act or any other Act, there
is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, for grants
from the National Institute of Food and Ag-
riculture to the 1890 Institutions to support
the Centers of Excellence.
SEC. 780. Section 6(e)(1)(B) of the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42
U.S.C. 1755(e)(1)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’.
SEC. 781. During fiscal year 2019, the Food
and Drug Administration shall not allow the
introduction or delivery for introduction
into interstate commerce of any food that
contains genetically engineered salmon until
the FDA publishes final labeling guidelines
for informing consumers of such content.
SEC. 782. In addition to funds appropriated
in this Act, there is hereby appropriated
$216,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, under the heading ‘‘Food for Peace
Title II Grants’’: Provided, That the funds
made available under this section shall be
used for the purposes set forth in the Food
for Peace Act for both emergency and non-
emergency purposes.
SEC. 783. Title III of the Department of Ag-
riculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C.
301 et. seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following— ‘‘SEC. 310. CONVERSION
AUTHORITY. Notwithstanding Title 5,
United States Code, a student, who is a U.S.
Citizen and who participates in a scholarship
program carried out by the Department may
be noncompetitively converted to an ap-
pointment in the competitive service by an
agency or office within the Department, pro-
vided the student meets the requirements for
such conversion, as determined by the Sec-
retary’’.
SEC. 784. There is appropriated to the
‘‘Farm Service Agency’’ $9,000,000 for pur-
poses of making payments to producers im-
pacted by an oriental fruit fly quarantine as
referenced in H.Rpt.115-232 to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the un-
obligated balances available under Treasury
symbol code 128/90600, $5,000,000 are re-
scinded.
SEC. 785. In administering the pilot pro-
gram established by section 779 of division A
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141), the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that applicants that are deter-
mined to be ineligible for the pilot program
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S342 January 22, 2019
have a means of appealing or otherwise chal-
lenging that determination in a timely fash-
ion; and
(2) in determining whether an entity may
overbuild or duplicate broadband expansion
efforts made by any entity that has received
a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities
Service, not consider loans that were re-
scinded or defaulted on, or loans the terms
and conditions of which were not met, if the
entity under consideration has not pre-
viously defaulted on, or failed to meet the
terms and conditions of, a Rural Utilities
Service loan or had a Rural Utilities Service
loan rescinded.
SEC. 786. For the cost of loans and grants,
$3,000,000 under the same terms and condi-
tions as authorized by section 379E of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s): Provided, That such costs
of loans, including the cost of modifying
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
SEC. 787. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel—
(1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
(2) to inspect horses under section 903 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public
Law 104–127); or
(3) to implement or enforce section 352.19
of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation).
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION B—COMMERCE, JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses for international
trade activities of the Department of Com-
merce provided for by law, and for engaging
in trade promotional activities abroad, in-
cluding expenses of grants and cooperative
agreements for the purpose of promoting ex-
ports of United States firms, without regard
to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United
States Code; full medical coverage for de-
pendent members of immediate families of
employees stationed overseas and employees
temporarily posted overseas; travel and
transportation of employees of the Inter-
national Trade Administration between two
points abroad, without regard to section
40118 of title 49, United States Code; employ-
ment of citizens of the United States and
aliens by contract for services; rental of
space abroad for periods not exceeding 10
years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or
improvement; purchase or construction of
temporary demountable exhibition struc-
tures for use abroad; payment of tort claims,
in the manner authorized in the first para-
graph of section 2672 of title 28, United
States Code, when such claims arise in for-
eign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for offi-
cial representation expenses abroad; pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for official
use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle;
obtaining insurance on official motor vehi-
cles; and rental of tie lines, $495,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020, of
which $11,000,000 is to be derived from fees to
be retained and used by the International
Trade Administration, notwithstanding sec-
tion 3302 of title 31, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That, of amounts provided under this
heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be for
China antidumping and countervailing duty
enforcement and compliance activities: Pro-
vided further, That the provisions of the first
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cul-
tural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f)
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these
activities; and that for the purpose of this
Act, contributions under the provisions of
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Ex-
change Act of 1961 shall include payment for
assessments for services provided as part of
these activities.
BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for export adminis-
tration and national security activities of
the Department of Commerce, including
costs associated with the performance of ex-
port administration field activities both do-
mestically and abroad; full medical coverage
for dependent members of immediate fami-
lies of employees stationed overseas; em-
ployment of citizens of the United States
and aliens by contract for services abroad;
payment of tort claims, in the manner au-
thorized in the first paragraph of section 2672
of title 28, United States Code, when such
claims arise in foreign countries; not to ex-
ceed $13,500 for official representation ex-
penses abroad; awards of compensation to in-
formers under the Export Control Reform
Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115–
232; 132 Stat. 2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), and
as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of
June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b));
and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
official use and motor vehicles for law en-
forcement use with special requirement vehi-
cles eligible for purchase without regard to
any price limitation otherwise established
by law, $118,050,000, to remain available until
expended, except that of the amount appro-
priated, not less than $4,550,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2019, and shall
only be available for contractor support to
implement the product exclusion process for
articles covered by actions taken under sec-
tion 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962
(19 U.S.C. 1862): Provided, That the provisions
of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all
of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out
these activities: Provided further, That pay-
ments and contributions collected and ac-
cepted for materials or services provided as
part of such activities may be retained for
use in covering the cost of such activities,
and for providing information to the public
with respect to the export administration
and national security activities of the De-
partment of Commerce and other export con-
trol programs of the United States and other
governments: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Commerce may transfer up to
$2,000,000 to this account, from funds avail-
able for ‘‘Departmental Management, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’ or for ‘‘Departmental
Management, Renovation and Moderniza-
tion’’: Provided further, That any funds trans-
ferred pursuant to the previous proviso shall
remain available until September 30, 2019,
and shall only be available for contractor
support to implement the product exclusion
process for articles covered by actions taken
under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862): Provided further, That
such transfer authority is in addition to any
other transfer authority contained in this
Act: Provided further, That any such transfer
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
For grants for economic development as-
sistance as provided by the Public Works and
Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade
adjustment assistance, and for grants au-
thorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
U.S.C. 3722), $265,000,000, to remain available
until expended, of which $23,500,000 shall be
for grants under such section 27.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of administering
the economic development assistance pro-
grams as provided for by law, $39,000,000: Pro-
vided, That these funds may be used to mon-
itor projects approved pursuant to title I of
the Public Works Employment Act of 1976,
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, section 27 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Com-
munity Emergency Drought Relief Act of
1977.
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Commerce in fostering, promoting, and
developing minority business enterprise, in-
cluding expenses of grants, contracts, and
other agreements with public or private or-
ganizations, $40,000,000.
ECONOMIC AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as authorized by
law, of economic and statistical analysis pro-
grams of the Department of Commerce,
$101,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
CURRENT SURVEYS AND PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics, provided for by law, $270,000,000:
Provided, That, from amounts provided here-
in, funds may be used for promotion, out-
reach, and marketing activities.
PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics for periodic censuses and programs
provided for by law, $3,551,388,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That, from amounts provided herein, funds
may be used for promotion, outreach, and
marketing activities: Provided further, That
within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000
shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ account for activities associ-
ated with carrying out investigations and
audits related to the Bureau of the Census:
Provided further, That not more than 50 per-
cent of the amounts made available under
this heading for information technology re-
lated to 2020 census delivery, including the
Census Enterprise Data Collection and Proc-
essing (CEDCaP) program, may be obligated
until the Secretary updates the previous ex-
penditure plan and resubmits to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate a plan for ex-
penditure that: (1) identifies for each
CEDCaP project/investment over $25,000: (A)
the functional and performance capabilities
to be delivered and the mission benefits to be
realized; (B) an updated estimated lifecycle
cost, including cumulative expenditures to
date by fiscal year, and all revised estimates
for development, maintenance, and oper-
ations; (C) key milestones to be met; and (D)
impacts of cost variances on other Census
programs; (2) details for each project/invest-
ment: (A) reasons for any cost and schedule
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S343
January 22, 2019
variances; and (B) top risks and mitigation
strategies; and (3) has been submitted to the
Government Accountability Office.
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND
INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as provided for by
law, of the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration (NTIA),
$39,500,000, of which not to exceed $15,000,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce
shall charge Federal agencies for costs in-
curred in spectrum management, analysis,
operations, and related services, and such
fees shall be retained and used as offsetting
collections for costs of such spectrum serv-
ices, to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of Com-
merce is authorized to retain and use as off-
setting collections all funds transferred, or
previously transferred, from other Govern-
ment agencies for all costs incurred in tele-
communications research, engineering, and
related activities by the Institute for Tele-
communication Sciences of NTIA, in further-
ance of its assigned functions under this
paragraph, and such funds received from
other Government agencies shall remain
available until expended.
PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES,
PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
For the administration of prior-year
grants, recoveries and unobligated balances
of funds previously appropriated are avail-
able for the administration of all open grants
until their expiration.
UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK
OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the United
States Patent and Trademark Office
(USPTO) provided for by law, including de-
fense of suits instituted against the Under
Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual
Property and Director of the USPTO,
$3,370,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as offsetting collections of fees and
surcharges assessed and collected by the
USPTO under any law are received during
fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a fiscal
year 2019 appropriation from the general
fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That
during fiscal year 2019, should the total
amount of such offsetting collections be less
than $3,370,000,000 this amount shall be re-
duced accordingly: Provided further, That any
amount received in excess of $3,370,000,000 in
fiscal year 2019 and deposited in the Patent
and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That the Director of USPTO shall sub-
mit a spending plan to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate for any amounts made
available by the preceding proviso and such
spending plan shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section: Provided
further, That any amounts reprogrammed in
accordance with the preceding proviso shall
be transferred to the United States Patent
and Trademark Office ‘‘Salaries and Ex-
penses’’ account: Provided further, That from
amounts provided herein, not to exceed $900
shall be made available in fiscal year 2019 for
official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That in fiscal year
2019 from the amounts made available for
‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ for the USPTO, the
amounts necessary to pay (1) the difference
between the percentage of basic pay contrib-
uted by the USPTO and employees under sec-
tion 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code,
and the normal cost percentage (as defined
by section 8331(17) of that title) as provided
by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) for USPTO’s specific use, of basic pay,
of employees subject to subchapter III of
chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present
value of the otherwise unfunded accruing
costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO’s
specific use of post-retirement life insurance
and post-retirement health benefits coverage
for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB)
and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance
(FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the
FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as appro-
priate, and shall be available for the author-
ized purposes of those accounts: Provided fur-
ther, That any differences between the
present value factors published in OPM’s
yearly 300 series benefit letters and the fac-
tors that OPM provides for USPTO’s specific
use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on
USPTO’s financial statements, where appli-
cable: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all fees
and surcharges assessed and collected by
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursu-
ant to section 42(c) of title 35, United States
Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-
Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112–
29): Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated, $1,500,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to the USPTO.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND
SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
$724,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may
be transferred to the ‘‘Working Capital
Fund’’: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses: Provided further, That NIST
may provide local transportation for summer
undergraduate research fellowship program
participants.
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
For necessary expenses for industrial tech-
nology services, $155,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $140,000,000
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Ex-
tension Partnership, and of which $15,000,000
shall be for the National Network for Manu-
facturing Innovation (also known as ‘‘Manu-
facturing USA’’).
CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES
For construction of new research facilities,
including architectural and engineering de-
sign, and for renovation and maintenance of
existing facilities, not otherwise provided for
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, as authorized by sections 13
through 15 of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C.
278c–278e), $106,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary
of Commerce shall include in the budget jus-
tification materials that the Secretary sub-
mits to Congress in support of the Depart-
ment of Commerce budget (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code)
an estimate for each National Institute of
Standards and Technology construction
project having a total multi-year program
cost of more than $5,000,000, and simulta-
neously the budget justification materials
shall include an estimate of the budgetary
requirements for each such project for each
of the 5 subsequent fiscal years.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of activities au-
thorized by law for the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, including
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft
and vessels; pilot programs for state-led fish-
eries management, notwithstanding any
other provision of law; grants, contracts, or
other payments to nonprofit organizations
for the purposes of conducting activities pur-
suant to cooperative agreements; and reloca-
tion of facilities, $3,596,997,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That fees and donations received by the Na-
tional Ocean Service for the management of
national marine sanctuaries may be retained
and used for the salaries and expenses associ-
ated with those activities, notwithstanding
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:
Provided further, That in addition, $157,980,000
shall be derived by transfer from the fund en-
titled ‘‘Promote and Develop Fishery Prod-
ucts and Research Pertaining to American
Fisheries’’, which shall only be used for fish-
ery activities related to the Saltonstall-Ken-
nedy Grant Program; Fisheries Data Collec-
tions, Surveys and Assessments; and Inter-
jurisdictional Fisheries Grants: Provided fur-
ther, That of the $3,772,477,000 provided for in
direct obligations under this heading,
$3,596,997,000 is appropriated from the general
fund, $157,980,000 is provided by transfer, and
$17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of prior
year obligations: Provided further, That any
deviation from the amounts designated for
specific activities in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), or any use of deobligated balances of
funds provided under this heading in pre-
vious years, shall be subject to the proce-
dures set forth in section 505 of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That in addition, for necessary
retired pay expenses under the Retired Serv-
iceman’s Family Protection and Survivor
Benefits Plan, and for payments for the med-
ical care of retired personnel and their de-
pendents under the Dependents’ Medical
Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may
be necessary.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For procurement, acquisition and con-
struction of capital assets, including alter-
ation and modification costs, of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
$1,755,349,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, except that funds provided
for acquisition and construction of vessels
and construction of facilities shall remain
available until expended: Provided, That of
the $1,768,349,000 provided for in direct obli-
gations under this heading, $1,755,349,000 is
appropriated from the general fund and
$13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of
prior year obligations: Provided further, That
any deviation from the amounts designated
for specific activities in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), or any use of deobligated balances of
funds provided under this heading in pre-
vious years, shall be subject to the proce-
dures set forth in section 505 of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of Com-
merce shall include in budget justification
materials that the Secretary submits to Con-
gress in support of the Department of Com-
merce budget (as submitted with the budget
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S344 January 22, 2019
of the President under section 1105(a) of title
31, United States Code) an estimate for each
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration procurement, acquisition or con-
struction project having a total of more than
$5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget jus-
tification shall include an estimate of the
budgetary requirements for each such
project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal
years: Provided further, That, within the
amounts appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to satellite procurement, acquisition
and construction.
PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY
For necessary expenses associated with the
restoration of Pacific salmon populations,
$65,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That, of the funds
provided herein, the Secretary of Commerce
may issue grants to the States of Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California,
and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific
Coast (including Alaska), for projects nec-
essary for conservation of salmon and
steelhead populations that are listed as
threatened or endangered, or that are identi-
fied by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for
maintaining populations necessary for exer-
cise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of
Pacific coastal salmon and steelhead habi-
tat, based on guidelines to be developed by
the Secretary of Commerce: Provided further,
That all funds shall be allocated based on
scientific and other merit principles and
shall not be available for marketing activi-
ties: Provided further, That funds disbursed to
States shall be subject to a matching re-
quirement of funds or documented in-kind
contributions of at least 33 percent of the
Federal funds.
FISHERMEN’S CONTINGENCY FUND
For carrying out the provisions of title IV
of Public Law 95–372, not to exceed $349,000,
to be derived from receipts collected pursu-
ant to that Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For the necessary expenses associated with
the mitigation of fishery disasters, $15,000,000
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds shall be used for mitigating the
effects of commercial fishery failures and
fishery resource disasters as declared by the
Secretary of Commerce.
FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019,
obligations of direct loans may not exceed
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans
and not to exceed $100,000,000 for traditional
direct loans as authorized by the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936.
DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the manage-
ment of the Department of Commerce pro-
vided for by law, including not to exceed
$4,500 for official reception and representa-
tion, $63,000,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.), $34,744,000: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 6413(b) of the Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–96), $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, from the amounts
provided under this heading, shall be derived
from the Public Safety Trust Fund for ac-
tivities associated with carrying out inves-
tigations and audits related to the First Re-
sponder Network Authority (FirstNet).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. During the current fiscal year, ap-
plicable appropriations and funds made
available to the Department of Commerce by
this Act shall be available for the activities
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15
U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding
31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced pay-
ments not otherwise authorized only upon
the certification of officials designated by
the Secretary of Commerce that such pay-
ments are in the public interest.
SEC. 102. During the current fiscal year, ap-
propriations made available to the Depart-
ment of Commerce by this Act for salaries
and expenses shall be available for hire of
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31
U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
5902).
SEC. 103. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Commerce
in this Act may be transferred between such
appropriations, but no such appropriation
shall be increased by more than 10 percent
by any such transfers: Provided, That any
transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall notify the Com-
mittees on Appropriations at least 15 days in
advance of the acquisition or disposal of any
capital asset (including land, structures, and
equipment) not specifically provided for in
this Act or any other law appropriating
funds for the Department of Commerce.
SEC. 104. The requirements set forth by sec-
tion 105 of the Commerce, Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2012 (Public Law 112–55), as amended by sec-
tion 105 of title I of division B of Public Law
113–6, are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable with respect to fiscal year
2019: Provided, That the life cycle cost for the
Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary
Operational Environmental Satellite R-Se-
ries Program is $10,828,059,000.
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary may furnish serv-
ices (including but not limited to utilities,
telecommunications, and security services)
necessary to support the operation, mainte-
nance, and improvement of space that per-
sons, firms, or organizations are authorized,
pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative
Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or
occupy in the Herbert C. Hoover Building,
Washington, DC, or other buildings, the
maintenance, operation, and protection of
which has been delegated to the Secretary
from the Administrator of General Services
pursuant to the Federal Property and Ad-
ministrative Services Act of 1949 on a reim-
bursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts
received as reimbursement for services pro-
vided under this section or the authority
under which the use or occupancy of the
space is authorized, up to $200,000, shall be
credited to the appropriation or fund which
initially bears the costs of such services.
SEC. 106. Nothing in this title shall be con-
strued to prevent a grant recipient from de-
terring child pornography, copyright in-
fringement, or any other unlawful activity
over its networks.
SEC. 107. The Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion is authorized to use, with their consent,
with reimbursement and subject to the lim-
its of available appropriations, the land,
services, equipment, personnel, and facilities
of any department, agency, or instrumen-
tality of the United States, or of any State,
local government, Indian tribal government,
Territory, or possession, or of any political
subdivision thereof, or of any foreign govern-
ment or international organization, for pur-
poses related to carrying out the responsibil-
ities of any statute administered by the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
SEC. 108. The National Technical Informa-
tion Service shall not charge any customer
for a copy of any report or document gen-
erated by the Legislative Branch unless the
Service has provided information to the cus-
tomer on how an electronic copy of such re-
port or document may be accessed and
downloaded for free online. Should a cus-
tomer still require the Service to provide a
printed or digital copy of the report or docu-
ment, the charge shall be limited to recov-
ering the Service’s cost of processing, repro-
ducing, and delivering such report or docu-
ment.
SEC. 109. To carry out the responsibilities
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration (NOAA), the Administrator of
NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants
and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on
a non-reimbursable basis land, services,
equipment, personnel, and facilities provided
by; and (3) receive and expend funds made
available on a consensual basis from: a Fed-
eral agency, State or subdivision thereof,
local government, tribal government, terri-
tory, or possession or any subdivisions there-
of: Provided, That funds received for permit-
ting and related regulatory activities pursu-
ant to this section shall be deposited under
the heading ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration—Operations, Re-
search, and Facilities’’ and shall remain
available until September 30, 2021, for such
purposes: Provided further, That all funds
within this section and their corresponding
uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.
SEC. 110. Amounts provided by this Act or
by any prior appropriations Act that remain
available for obligation, for necessary ex-
penses of the programs of the Economics and
Statistics Administration of the Department
of Commerce, including amounts provided
for programs of the Bureau of Economic
Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall
be available for expenses of cooperative
agreements with appropriate entities, in-
cluding any Federal, State, or local govern-
mental unit, or institution of higher edu-
cation, to aid and promote statistical, re-
search, and methodology activities which
further the purposes for which such amounts
have been made available.
SEC. 111. Section 110(a) of the Department
of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–113) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘management is’’ and in-
serting ‘‘management is: (1)’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘subsection (b).’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsection (b); or (2) for law enforce-
ment activities conducted by States under a
joint enforcement agreement pursuant to
section 311(h) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fish-
ery Conservation and Management Act (16
U.S.C. 1861(h)), any other agreement with the
Secretary entered into pursuant to section
311(a) of such Act, or any similar agreement
authorized by law.’’.
SEC. 112. Title II of Division B of Public
Law 115–123 is amended by striking ‘‘Fed-
eral’’ each place it appears under the heading
‘‘Department of Commerce—National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S345
January 22, 2019
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of the Department of Justice,
$113,000,000, of which not to exceed $4,000,000
for security and construction of Department
of Justice facilities shall remain available
until expended.
JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for information
sharing technology, including planning, de-
velopment, deployment and departmental di-
rection, $32,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Attorney Gen-
eral may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this ac-
count, from funds available to the Depart-
ment of Justice for information technology,
to remain available until expended, for en-
terprise-wide information technology initia-
tives: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thority in the preceding proviso is in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority con-
tained in this Act: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the first proviso shall
be treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of immigration-related activities of the
Executive Office for Immigration Review,
$563,407,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be de-
rived by transfer from the Executive Office
for Immigration Review fees deposited in the
‘‘Immigration Examinations Fee’’ account,
and of which not less than $11,400,000 shall be
available for services and activities provided
by the Legal Orientation Program: Provided,
That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the total
amount made available under this heading
shall remain available until expended.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $101,000,000, including not to
exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Parole Commission as authorized,
$13,000,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, upon the expira-
tion of a term of office of a Commissioner,
the Commissioner may continue to act until
a successor has been appointed.
LEGAL ACTIVITIES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL
ACTIVITIES
For expenses necessary for the legal activi-
ties of the Department of Justice, not other-
wise provided for, including not to exceed
$20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to
be expended under the direction of, and to be
accounted for solely under the certificate of,
the Attorney General; the administration of
pardon and clemency petitions; and rent of
private or Government-owned space in the
District of Columbia, $904,000,000, of which
not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation sup-
port contracts shall remain available until
expended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided for INTERPOL Washington dues pay-
ments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the total amount appropriated, not
to exceed $9,000 shall be available to
INTERPOL Washington for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 205 of
this Act, upon a determination by the Attor-
ney General that emergent circumstances re-
quire additional funding for litigation activi-
ties of the Civil Division, the Attorney Gen-
eral may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses, General Legal Activities’’
from available appropriations for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated, such sums as may be
necessary shall be available to the Civil
Rights Division for salaries and expenses as-
sociated with the election monitoring pro-
gram under section 8 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to reimburse
the Office of Personnel Management for such
salaries and expenses: Provided further, That
of the amounts provided under this heading
for the election monitoring program,
$3,390,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated, not less than $193,715,000 shall
be available for the Criminal Division, in-
cluding related expenses for the Mutual
Legal Assistance Treaty Program.
In addition, for reimbursement of expenses
of the Department of Justice associated with
processing cases under the National Child-
hood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to ex-
ceed $10,000,000, to be appropriated from the
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION
For expenses necessary for the enforce-
ment of antitrust and kindred laws,
$164,977,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection (and estimated to be
$136,000,000 in fiscal year 2019), shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses in
this appropriation, and shall remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the sum herein appropriated from the gen-
eral fund shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2019, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation from the general fund esti-
mated at $28,977,000.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES
ATTORNEYS
For necessary expenses of the Offices of the
United States Attorneys, including inter-
governmental and cooperative agreements,
$2,212,000,000: Provided, That of the total
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That each United States Attorney shall es-
tablish or participate in a task force on
human trafficking.
UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses of the United
States Trustee Program, as authorized,
$226,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, deposits to the United
States Trustee System Fund and amounts
herein appropriated shall be available in
such amounts as may be necessary to pay re-
funds due depositors: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
fees deposited into the Fund pursuant to sec-
tion 589a(b) of title 28, United States Code
(as limited by section 1004(b) of the Bank-
ruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 (division B of
Public Law 115–72)), shall be retained and
used for necessary expenses in this appro-
priation and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That to the extent
that fees deposited into the Fund in fiscal
year 2019, net of amounts necessary to pay
refunds due depositors, exceed $226,000,000,
those excess amounts shall be available in
future fiscal years only to the extent pro-
vided in advance in appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced (1) as such fees are received during fis-
cal year 2019, net of amounts necessary to
pay refunds due depositors, (estimated at
$360,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any re-
maining general fund appropriations can be
derived from amounts deposited in the Fund
in previous fiscal years that are not other-
wise appropriated, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at $0.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS
SETTLEMENT COMMISSION
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the Foreign Claims Settlement
Commission, including services as author-
ized by section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, $2,409,000.
FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES
For fees and expenses of witnesses, for ex-
penses of contracts for the procurement and
supervision of expert witnesses, for private
counsel expenses, including advances, and for
expenses of foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to
remain available until expended, of which
not to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of
buildings for protected witness safesites; not
to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and
maintenance of armored and other vehicles
for witness security caravans; and not to ex-
ceed $18,000,000 is for the purchase, installa-
tion, maintenance, and upgrade of secure
telecommunications equipment and a secure
automated information network to store and
retrieve the identities and locations of pro-
tected witnesses: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may not
be transferred pursuant to section 205 of this
Act.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY
RELATIONS SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Community
Relations Service, $15,500,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon
a determination by the Attorney General
that emergent circumstances require addi-
tional funding for conflict resolution and vi-
olence prevention activities of the Commu-
nity Relations Service, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to the Commu-
nity Relations Service, from available appro-
priations for the current fiscal year for the
Department of Justice, as may be necessary
to respond to such circumstances: Provided
further, That any transfer pursuant to the
preceding proviso shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section.
ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND
For expenses authorized by subparagraphs
(B), (F), and (G) of section 524(c)(1) of title 28,
United States Code, $20,514,000, to be derived
from the Department of Justice Assets For-
feiture Fund.
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Marshals Service, $1,358,000,000, of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S346 January 22, 2019
which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses, and not to exceed $25,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction in space controlled, occu-
pied or utilized by the United States Mar-
shals Service for prisoner holding and re-
lated support, $15,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
FEDERAL PRISONER DETENTION
For necessary expenses related to United
States prisoners in the custody of the United
States Marshals Service as authorized by
section 4013 of title 18, United States Code,
$1,552,397,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall be considered ‘‘funds appro-
priated for State and local law enforcement
assistance’’ pursuant to section 4013(b) of
title 18, United States Code: Provided further,
That the United States Marshals Service
shall be responsible for managing the Justice
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.
NATIONAL SECURITY DIVISION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the National Security Division,
$101,369,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000
for information technology systems shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for the activities of the
National Security Division, the Attorney
General may transfer such amounts to this
heading from available appropriations for
the current fiscal year for the Department of
Justice, as may be necessary to respond to
such circumstances: Provided further, That
any transfer pursuant to the preceding pro-
viso shall be treated as a reprogramming
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
INTERAGENCY LAW ENFORCEMENT
INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for the identifica-
tion, investigation, and prosecution of indi-
viduals associated with the most significant
drug trafficking organizations, transnational
organized crime, and money laundering orga-
nizations not otherwise provided for, to in-
clude inter-governmental agreements with
State and local law enforcement agencies en-
gaged in the investigation and prosecution of
individuals involved in transnational orga-
nized crime and drug trafficking, $560,000,000,
of which $50,000,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That any amounts
obligated from appropriations under this
heading may be used under authorities avail-
able to the organizations reimbursed from
this appropriation.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation for detection, inves-
tigation, and prosecution of crimes against
the United States, $9,192,137,000, of which not
to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed
$184,500 shall be available for official recep-
tion and representation expenses: Provided
further, That in addition to other funds pro-
vided for Construction projects, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation may use up to
$150,000,000 appropriated in prior years under
this heading for all costs related to construc-
tion, renovation, and modification of feder-
ally owned and leased space and expansion of
network capabilities.
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses, to include the cost
of equipment, furniture, and information
technology requirements, related to con-
struction or acquisition of buildings, facili-
ties and sites by purchase, or as otherwise
authorized by law; conversion, modification
and extension of federally owned buildings;
preliminary planning and design of projects;
and operation and maintenance of secure
work environment facilities and secure net-
working capabilities; $385,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Drug En-
forcement Administration, including not to
exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character pursuant
to section 530C of title 28, United States
Code; and expenses for conducting drug edu-
cation and training programs, including
travel and related expenses for participants
in such programs and the distribution of
items of token value that promote the goals
of such programs, $2,267,000,000, of which not
to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available
until expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall
be available for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided, That the
Drug Enforcement Administration may use
up to $5,700,000 appropriated in prior year
funds under this heading for necessary ex-
penses of construction.
BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, FIREARMS AND
EXPLOSIVES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
for training of State and local law enforce-
ment agencies with or without reimburse-
ment, including training in connection with
the training and acquisition of canines for
explosives and fire accelerants detection;
and for provision of laboratory assistance to
State and local law enforcement agencies,
with or without reimbursement,
$1,316,678,000, of which not to exceed $36,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall
be available for the payment of attorneys’
fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title
18, United States Code, and not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds ap-
propriated herein shall be available to inves-
tigate or act upon applications for relief
from Federal firearms disabilities under sec-
tion 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:
Provided further, That such funds shall be
available to investigate and act upon appli-
cations filed by corporations for relief from
Federal firearms disabilities under section
925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That no funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
transfer the functions, missions, or activities
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives to other agencies or Depart-
ments.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Federal Pris-
on System for the administration, operation,
and maintenance of Federal penal and cor-
rectional institutions, and for the provision
of technical assistance and advice on correc-
tions related issues to foreign governments,
$7,250,000,000: Provided, That the Attorney
General may transfer to the Department of
Health and Human Services such amounts as
may be necessary for direct expenditures by
that Department for medical relief for in-
mates of Federal penal and correctional in-
stitutions: Provided further, That the Direc-
tor of the Federal Prison System, where nec-
essary, may enter into contracts with a fis-
cal agent or fiscal intermediary claims proc-
essor to determine the amounts payable to
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison
System, furnish health services to individ-
uals committed to the custody of the Federal
Prison System: Provided further, That not to
exceed $5,400 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000
shall remain available for necessary oper-
ations until September 30, 2020: Provided fur-
ther, That, of the amounts provided for con-
tract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended to
make payments in advance for grants, con-
tracts and reimbursable agreements, and
other expenses: Provided further, That the Di-
rector of the Federal Prison System may ac-
cept donated property and services relating
to the operation of the prison card program
from a not-for-profit entity which has oper-
ated such program in the past, notwith-
standing the fact that such not-for-profit en-
tity furnishes services under contracts to the
Federal Prison System relating to the oper-
ation of pre-release services, halfway houses,
or other custodial facilities.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For planning, acquisition of sites, and con-
struction of new facilities; purchase and ac-
quisition of facilities and remodeling, and
equipping of such facilities for penal and cor-
rectional use, including all necessary ex-
penses incident thereto, by contract or force
account; and constructing, remodeling, and
equipping necessary buildings and facilities
at existing penal and correctional institu-
tions, including all necessary expenses inci-
dent thereto, by contract or force account,
$264,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $175,000,000 shall be avail-
able only for costs related to construction of
new facilities: Provided, That labor of United
States prisoners may be used for work per-
formed under this appropriation.
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
The Federal Prison Industries, Incor-
porated, is hereby authorized to make such
expenditures within the limits of funds and
borrowing authority available, and in accord
with the law, and to make such contracts
and commitments without regard to fiscal
year limitations as provided by section 9104
of title 31, United States Code, as may be
necessary in carrying out the program set
forth in the budget for the current fiscal
year for such corporation.
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES,
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the
Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated,
shall be available for its administrative ex-
penses, and for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be
computed on an accrual basis to be deter-
mined in accordance with the corporation’s
current prescribed accounting system, and
such amounts shall be exclusive of deprecia-
tion, payment of claims, and expenditures
which such accounting system requires to be
capitalized or charged to cost of commod-
ities acquired or produced, including selling
and shipping expenses, and expenses in con-
nection with acquisition, construction, oper-
ation, maintenance, improvement, protec-
tion, or disposition of facilities and other
property belonging to the corporation or in
which it has an interest.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S347
January 22, 2019
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ACTIVITIES
OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND
PROSECUTION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance for the preven-
tion and prosecution of violence against
women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Vio-
lent Crime Control and Law Enforcement
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the 1994
Act’’); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to
end the Exploitation of Children Today Act
of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the Juvenile Jus-
tice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974
(34 U.S.C. 11101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the
Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–386) (‘‘the
2000 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); and the Rape Survivor Child Custody
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–22) (‘‘the 2015
Act’’); and for related victims services,
$497,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, which shall be derived by transfer
from amounts available for obligation in this
Act from the Fund established by section
1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law
98–473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), notwithstanding sec-
tion 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and merged
with the amounts otherwise made available
under this heading: Provided, That except as
otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 5
percent of funds made available under this
heading may be used for expenses related to
evaluation, training, and technical assist-
ance: Provided further, That of the amount
provided—
(1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat vio-
lence against women, as authorized by part
T of the 1968 Act;
(2) $36,000,000 is for transitional housing as-
sistance grants for victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual as-
sault as authorized by section 40299 of the
1994 Act;
(3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of
Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics
for research, evaluation, and statistics of vi-
olence against women and related issues ad-
dressed by grant programs of the Office on
Violence Against Women, which shall be
transferred to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and
Statistics’’ for administration by the Office
of Justice Programs;
(4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to pro-
vide services to advocate for and respond to
youth victims of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking; assist-
ance to children and youth exposed to such
violence; programs to engage men and youth
in preventing such violence; and assistance
to middle and high school students through
education and other services related to such
violence: Provided, That unobligated bal-
ances available for the programs authorized
by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the
1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013
Act, shall be available for this program: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the total
amount available for this grant program
shall be available for grants under the pro-
gram authorized by section 2015 of the 1968
Act: Provided further, That the definitions
and grant conditions in section 40002 of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program;
(5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage ar-
rest policies as authorized by part U of the
1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is for a homicide
reduction initiative;
(6) $37,500,000 is for sexual assault victims
assistance, as authorized by section 41601 of
the 1994 Act;
(7) $42,000,000 is for rural domestic violence
and child abuse enforcement assistance
grants, as authorized by section 40295 of the
1994 Act;
(8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent
crimes against women on campus, as author-
ized by section 304 of the 2005 Act;
(9) $45,000,000 is for legal assistance for vic-
tims, as authorized by section 1201 of the 2000
Act;
(10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and
services to end violence against and abuse of
women in later life, as authorized by section
40802 of the 1994 Act;
(11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support fami-
lies in the justice system, as authorized by
section 1301 of the 2000 Act: Provided, That
unobligated balances available for the pro-
grams authorized by section 1301 of the 2000
Act and section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to
their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be
available for this program;
(12) $6,000,000 is for education and training
to end violence against and abuse of women
with disabilities, as authorized by section
1402 of the 2000 Act;
(13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource
Center on Workplace Responses to assist vic-
tims of domestic violence, as authorized by
section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
(14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research
on violence against Indian women, including
as authorized by section 904 of the 2005 Act:
Provided, That such funds may be transferred
to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and Statistics’’ for
administration by the Office of Justice Pro-
grams;
(15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse
that provides training and technical assist-
ance on issues relating to sexual assault of
American Indian and Alaska Native women;
(16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal
governments in exercising special domestic
violence criminal jurisdiction, as authorized
by section 904 of the 2013 Act: Provided, That
the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
(17) $1,500,000 is for the purposes authorized
under the 2015 Act.
OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS
RESEARCH, EVALUATION AND STATISTICS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preven-
tion Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Missing
Children’s Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et
seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other
Tools to end the Exploitation of Children
Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Violence Against Women and De-
partment of Justice Reauthorization Act of
2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Pub-
lic Law 101–647); the Second Chance Act of
2007 (Public Law 110–199); the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam
Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our Children
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007
(Public Law 110–180); the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public
Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); and other pro-
grams, $80,000,000, to remain available until
expended, of which—
(1) $43,000,000 is for criminal justice statis-
tics programs, and other activities, as au-
thorized by part C of title I of the 1968 Act,
of which $5,000,000 is for a nationwide inci-
dent-based crime statistics program; and
(2) $37,000,000 is for research, development,
and evaluation programs, and other activi-
ties as authorized by part B of title I of the
1968 Act and subtitle D of title II of the 2002
Act, of which $4,000,000 is for research tar-
geted toward developing a better under-
standing of the domestic radicalization phe-
nomenon, and advancing evidence-based
strategies for effective intervention and pre-
vention; $1,000,000 is for research to study the
root causes of school violence to include the
impact and effectiveness of grants made
under the STOP School Violence Act;
$1,000,000 is for a study to better protect chil-
dren against online predatory behavior as
part of the National Juvenile Online Victim-
ization Studies (N–JOVS); and $3,000,000 is
for a national center for restorative justice.
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforce-
ment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the
1994 Act’’); the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–164); the Vio-
lence Against Women and Department of
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public
Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’); the Adam
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam Walsh
Act’’); the Victims of Trafficking and Vio-
lence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
386); the NICS Improvement Amendments
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199); the Prioritizing Resources and Organi-
zation for Intellectual Property Act of 2008
(Public Law 110–403); the Victims of Crime
Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the Mentally
Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416); the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013
(Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of
2016 (Public Law 114–198) (‘‘CARA’’); the Jus-
tice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–324); Kevin and Avonte’s Law (di-
vision Q of Public Law 115–141) (‘‘Kevin and
Avonte’s Law’’); the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act of 2018 (title III of division S of Pub-
lic Law 115–141) (‘‘the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act’’); the STOP School Violence Act of
2018 (title V of division S of Public Law 115–
141) (‘‘the STOP School Violence Act’’); the
Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of
Public Law 115–141); the Project Safe Neigh-
borhoods Grant Program Authorization Act
of 2018 (Public Law 115–185); and the SUP-
PORT for Patients and Communities Act
(Public Law 115–271); and other programs,
$1,723,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended as follows—
(1) $423,500,000 for the Edward Byrne Memo-
rial Justice Assistance Grant program as au-
thorized by subpart 1 of part E of title I of
the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and
the special rules for Puerto Rico under sec-
tion 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not
apply for purposes of this Act), of which, not-
withstanding such subpart 1, $12,000,000 is for
the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Ini-
tiative on Preventing Violence Against Law
Enforcement Officer Resilience and Surviv-
ability (VALOR), $7,500,000 is for an initia-
tive to support evidence-based policing,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S348 January 22, 2019
$8,000,000 is for an initiative to enhance pros-
ecutorial decision-making, $2,400,000 is for
the operationalization, maintenance and ex-
pansion of the National Missing and Uniden-
tified Persons System, $2,500,000 is for an
academic based training initiative to im-
prove police-based responses to people with
mental illness or developmental disabilities,
$2,000,000 is for a student loan repayment as-
sistance program pursuant to section 952 of
Public Law 110–315, $15,500,000 is for prison
rape prevention and prosecution grants to
States and units of local government, and
other programs, as authorized by the Prison
Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law
108–79), $2,000,000 is for a grant program au-
thorized by Kevin and Avonte’s Law,
$3,000,000 is for a regional law enforcement
technology initiative, $20,000,000 is for pro-
grams to reduce gun crime and gang vio-
lence, as authorized by Public Law 115–185,
$5,000,000 is for the Capital Litigation Im-
provement Grant Program, as authorized by
section 426 of Public Law 108–405, and for
grants for wrongful conviction review,
$2,000,000 is for emergency law enforcement
assistance for events occurring during or
after fiscal year 2019, as authorized by sec-
tion 609M of the Justice Assistance Act of
1984 (34 U.S.C. 50101), $2,000,000 is for grants
to States and units of local government to
deploy managed access systems to combat
contraband cell phone use in prison,
$2,000,000 is for a program to improve juve-
nile indigent defense, and $8,000,000 is for
community-based violence prevention initia-
tives;
(2) $243,500,000 for the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program, as authorized by sec-
tion 241(i)(5) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): Provided, That
no jurisdiction shall request compensation
for any cost greater than the actual cost for
Federal immigration and other detainees
housed in State and local detention facili-
ties;
(3) $85,000,000 for victim services programs
for victims of trafficking, as authorized by
section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 106–386, for
programs authorized under Public Law 109–
164, or programs authorized under Public
Law 113–4;
(4) $14,000,000 for economic, high tech-
nology, white collar, and Internet crime pre-
vention grants, including as authorized by
section 401 of Public Law 110–403, of which
$2,500,000 is for competitive grants that help
State and local law enforcement tackle in-
tellectual property thefts, and $2,000,000 for a
competitive grant program for training stu-
dents in computer forensics and digital in-
vestigation;
(5) $20,000,000 for sex offender management
assistance, as authorized by the Adam Walsh
Act, and related activities;
(6) $25,000,000 for the matching grant pro-
gram for law enforcement armor vests, as
authorized by section 2501 of title I of the
1968 Act: Provided, That $1,500,000 is trans-
ferred directly to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology’s Office of Law
Enforcement Standards for research, testing
and evaluation programs;
(7) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender
Public Website;
(8) $75,000,000 for grants to States to up-
grade criminal and mental health records for
the National Instant Criminal Background
Check System, of which no less than
$25,000,000 shall be for grants made under the
authorities of the NICS Improvement
Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180)
and Fix NICS Act of 2018;
(9) $30,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic
Sciences Improvement Grants under part BB
of title I of the 1968 Act;
(10) $130,000,000 for DNA-related and foren-
sic programs and activities, of which—
(A) $120,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and
capacity enhancement program and for other
local, State, and Federal forensic activities,
including the purposes authorized under sec-
tion 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimi-
nation Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–546) (the
Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):
Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made
available under this paragraph may be used
for the purposes described in the DNA Train-
ing and Education for Law Enforcement,
Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers
program (Public Law 108–405, section 303);
(B) $6,000,000 is for the purposes described
in the Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction
DNA Testing Grant Program (Public Law
108–405, section 412); and
(C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic
Exam Program grants, including as author-
ized by section 304 of Public Law 108–405;
(11) $48,000,000 for a grant program for com-
munity-based sexual assault response re-
form;
(12) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed spe-
cial advocate program, as authorized by sec-
tion 217 of the 1990 Act;
(13) $37,500,000 for assistance to Indian
tribes;
(14) $87,500,000 for offender reentry pro-
grams and research, as authorized by the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199), without regard to the time limitations
specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which
not to exceed $6,000,000 is for a program to
improve State, local, and tribal probation or
parole supervision efforts and strategies,
$5,000,000 is for Children of Incarcerated Par-
ents Demonstrations to enhance and main-
tain parental and family relationships for in-
carcerated parents as a reentry or recidivism
reduction strategy, and $4,000,000 is for addi-
tional replication sites employing the
Project HOPE Opportunity Probation with
Enforcement model implementing swift and
certain sanctions in probation, and for a re-
search project on the effectiveness of the
model: Provided, That up to $7,500,000 of
funds made available in this paragraph may
be used for performance-based awards for
Pay for Success projects, of which up to
$5,000,000 shall be for Pay for Success pro-
grams implementing the Permanent Sup-
portive Housing Model;
(15) $66,500,000 for initiatives to improve
police-community relations, of which
$22,500,000 is for a competitive matching
grant program for purchases of body-worn
cameras for State, local and Tribal law en-
forcement, $27,000,000 is for a justice rein-
vestment initiative, for activities related to
criminal justice reform and recidivism re-
duction, and $17,000,000 is for an Edward
Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation
program;
(16) $347,000,000 for comprehensive opioid
abuse reduction activities, including as au-
thorized by CARA, and for the following pro-
grams, which shall address opioid abuse re-
duction consistent with underlying program
authorities—
(A) $77,000,000 for Drug Courts, as author-
ized by section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the
1968 Act;
(B) $31,000,000 for mental health courts and
adult and juvenile collaboration program
grants, as authorized by parts V and HH of
title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416);
(C) $30,000,000 for grants for Residential
Substance Abuse Treatment for State Pris-
oners, as authorized by part S of title I of the
1968 Act;
(D) $22,000,000 for a veterans treatment
courts program;
(E) $30,000,000 for a program to monitor
prescription drugs and scheduled listed
chemical products; and
(F) $157,000,000 for a comprehensive opioid
abuse program;
(17) $2,500,000 for a competitive grant pro-
gram authorized by the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act; and
(18) $75,000,000 for grants to be adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance for
purposes authorized under the STOP School
Violence Act:
Provided, That, if a unit of local government
uses any of the funds made available under
this heading to increase the number of law
enforcement officers, the unit of local gov-
ernment will achieve a net gain in the num-
ber of law enforcement officers who perform
non-administrative public sector safety serv-
ice.
JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Pre-
vention Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the
2005 Act’’); the Missing Children’s Assistance
Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); the Prosecu-
torial Remedies and Other Tools to end the
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003
(Public Law 108–21); the Victims of Child
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the
1990 Act’’); the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–248)
(‘‘the Adam Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our
Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); the
Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); the Justice for All Reauthorization
Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); and other ju-
venile justice programs, $287,000,000, to re-
main available until expended as follows—
(1) $60,000,000 for programs authorized by
section 221 of the 1974 Act, and for training
and technical assistance to assist small, non-
profit organizations with the Federal grants
process: Provided, That of the amounts pro-
vided under this paragraph, $500,000 shall be
for a competitive demonstration grant pro-
gram to support emergency planning among
State, local and tribal juvenile justice resi-
dential facilities;
(2) $95,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
(3) $24,500,000 for delinquency prevention,
as authorized by section 505 of the 1974 Act,
of which, pursuant to sections 261 and 262
thereof—
(A) $5,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth
Program;
(B) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site
providing information and resources on chil-
dren of incarcerated parents;
(C) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive
grants focusing on girls in the juvenile jus-
tice system;
(D) $9,000,000 shall be for an opioid-affected
youth initiative; and
(E) $8,000,000 shall be for an initiative re-
lating to children exposed to violence;
(4) $22,500,000 for programs authorized by
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
(5) $82,000,000 for missing and exploited
children programs, including as authorized
by sections 404(b) and 405(a) of the 1974 Act
(except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PRO-
TECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–401) shall not apply for purposes of this
Act); and
(6) $3,000,000 for child abuse training pro-
grams for judicial personnel and practi-
tioners, as authorized by section 222 of the
1990 Act:
Provided, That not more than 10 percent of
each amount may be used for research, eval-
uation, and statistics activities designed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S349
January 22, 2019
benefit the programs or activities author-
ized: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the amounts designated under
paragraphs (1) through (3) and (6) may be
used for training and technical assistance:
Provided further, That the two preceding pro-
visos shall not apply to grants and projects
administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262
of the 1974 Act and to missing and exploited
children programs.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments and expenses authorized
under section 1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968, such sums as are necessary (including
amounts for administrative costs), to remain
available until expended; and $24,800,000 for
payments authorized by section 1201(b) of
such Act and for educational assistance au-
thorized by section 1218 of such Act, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for such disability and
education payments, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Public Safe-
ty Officer Benefits’’ from available appro-
priations for the Department of Justice as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section.
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities authorized by the Violent
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
1994 (Public Law 103–322); the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the
1968 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
and the SUPPORT for Patients and Commu-
nities Act (Public Law 115–271), $303,500,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That any balances made available through
prior year deobligations shall only be avail-
able in accordance with section 505 of this
Act: Provided further, That of the amount
provided under this heading—
(1) $228,500,000 is for grants under section
1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381)
for the hiring and rehiring of additional ca-
reer law enforcement officers under part Q of
such title notwithstanding subsection (i) of
such section: Provided, That, notwith-
standing section 1704(c) of such title (34
U.S.C. 10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehir-
ing a career law enforcement officer may not
exceed $125,000 unless the Director of the Of-
fice of Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices grants a waiver from this limitation:
Provided further, That within the amounts
appropriated under this paragraph,
$27,000,000 is for improving tribal law en-
forcement, including hiring, equipment,
training, anti-methamphetamine activities,
and anti-opioid activities: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph, $6,500,000 is for community polic-
ing development activities in furtherance of
the purposes in section 1701: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph $37,000,000 is for regional informa-
tion sharing activities, as authorized by part
M of title I of the 1968 Act, which shall be
transferred to and merged with ‘‘Research,
Evaluation, and Statistics’’ for administra-
tion by the Office of Justice Programs: Pro-
vided further, That within the amounts ap-
propriated under this paragraph, no less than
$3,000,000 is to support the Tribal Access Pro-
gram: Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated under this paragraph,
$2,000,000 is for training, peer mentoring, and
mental health program activities as author-
ized under the Law Enforcement Mental
Health and Wellness Act (Public Law 115–
113);
(2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by
the POLICE Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–199);
(3) $8,000,000 is for competitive grants to
State law enforcement agencies in States
with high seizures of precursor chemicals,
finished methamphetamine, laboratories,
and laboratory dump seizures: Provided, That
funds appropriated under this paragraph
shall be utilized for investigative purposes to
locate or investigate illicit activities, in-
cluding precursor diversion, laboratories, or
methamphetamine traffickers;
(4) $32,000,000 is for competitive grants to
statewide law enforcement agencies in
States with high rates of primary treatment
admissions for heroin and other opioids: Pro-
vided, That these funds shall be utilized for
investigative purposes to locate or inves-
tigate illicit activities, including activities
related to the distribution of heroin or un-
lawful distribution of prescription opioids, or
unlawful heroin and prescription opioid traf-
fickers through statewide collaboration; and
(5) $25,000,000 is for competitive grants to
be administered by the Community Oriented
Policing Services Office for purposes author-
ized under the STOP School Violence Act
(title V of division S of Public Law 115–141).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available in this title for official recep-
tion and representation expenses, a total of
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated
to the Department of Justice in this title
shall be available to the Attorney General
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
SEC. 202. None of the funds appropriated by
this title shall be available to pay for an
abortion, except where the life of the mother
would be endangered if the fetus were carried
to term, or in the case of rape or incest: Pro-
vided, That should this prohibition be de-
clared unconstitutional by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction, this section shall be null
and void.
SEC. 203. None of the funds appropriated
under this title shall be used to require any
person to perform, or facilitate in any way
the performance of, any abortion.
SEC. 204. Nothing in the preceding section
shall remove the obligation of the Director
of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort
services necessary for a female inmate to re-
ceive such service outside the Federal facil-
ity: Provided, That nothing in this section in
any way diminishes the effect of section 203
intended to address the philosophical beliefs
of individual employees of the Bureau of
Prisons.
SEC. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation, ex-
cept as otherwise specifically provided, shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers: Provided, That any transfer
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
SEC. 206. None of the funds made available
under this title may be used by the Federal
Bureau of Prisons or the United States Mar-
shals Service for the purpose of transporting
an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to
conviction for crime under State or Federal
law and is classified as a maximum or high
security prisoner, other than to a prison or
other facility certified by the Federal Bu-
reau of Prisons as appropriately secure for
housing such a prisoner.
SEC. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used by Federal prisons
to purchase cable television services, or to
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic
media or equipment used primarily for rec-
reational purposes.
(b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the
rental, maintenance, or purchase of audio-
visual or electronic media or equipment for
inmate training, religious, or educational
programs.
SEC. 208. None of the funds made available
under this title shall be obligated or ex-
pended for any new or enhanced information
technology program having total estimated
development costs in excess of $100,000,000,
unless the Deputy Attorney General and the
investment review board certify to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that the in-
formation technology program has appro-
priate program management controls and
contractor oversight mechanisms in place,
and that the program is compatible with the
enterprise architecture of the Department of
Justice.
SEC. 209. The notification thresholds and
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act
shall apply to deviations from the amounts
designated for specific activities in this Act
and in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act), and to any use of
deobligated balances of funds provided under
this title in previous years.
SEC. 210. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to plan for, begin, con-
tinue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Man-
agement and Budget Circular A–76 or any
successor administrative regulation, direc-
tive, or policy for work performed by em-
ployees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Fed-
eral Prison Industries, Incorporated.
SEC. 211. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no funds shall be available for
the salary, benefits, or expenses of any
United States Attorney assigned dual or ad-
ditional responsibilities by the Attorney
General or his designee that exempt that
United States Attorney from the residency
requirements of section 545 of title 28, United
States Code.
SEC. 212. At the discretion of the Attorney
General, and in addition to any amounts
that otherwise may be available (or author-
ized to be made available) by law, with re-
spect to funds appropriated by this title
under the headings ‘‘Research, Evaluation
and Statistics’’, ‘‘State and Local Law En-
forcement Assistance’’, and ‘‘Juvenile Jus-
tice Programs’’—
(1) up to 3 percent of funds made available
to the Office of Justice Programs for grant
or reimbursement programs may be used by
such Office to provide training and technical
assistance; and
(2) up to 2.5 percent of funds made avail-
able for grant or reimbursement programs
under such headings, except for amounts ap-
propriated specifically for research, evalua-
tion, or statistical programs administered by
the National Institute of Justice and the Bu-
reau of Justice Statistics, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with funds provided to
the National Institute of Justice and the Bu-
reau of Justice Statistics, to be used by
them for research, evaluation, or statistical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S350 January 22, 2019
purposes, without regard to the authoriza-
tions for such grant or reimbursement pro-
grams.
SEC. 213. Upon request by a grantee for
whom the Attorney General has determined
there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney Gen-
eral may, with respect to funds appropriated
in this or any other Act making appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2016 through 2019 for the
following programs, waive the following re-
quirements:
(1) For the adult and juvenile offender
State and local reentry demonstration
projects under part FF of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the require-
ments under section 2976(g)(1) of such part
(34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
(2) For State, Tribal, and local reentry
courts under part FF of title I of such Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the require-
ments under section 2978(e)(1) and (2) of such
part (34 U.S.C. 10633(e)(1) and (2)).
(3) For the prosecution drug treatment al-
ternatives to prison program under part CC
of title I of such Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10581),
the requirements under the second sentence
of section 2901(f) of such part (34 U.S.C.
10581(f)).
SEC. 214. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, section 20109(a) of subtitle A of
title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a))
shall not apply to amounts made available
by this or any other Act.
SEC. 215. None of the funds made available
under this Act, other than for the national
instant criminal background check system
established under section 103 of the Brady
Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C.
40901), may be used by a Federal law enforce-
ment officer to facilitate the transfer of an
operable firearm to an individual if the Fed-
eral law enforcement officer knows or sus-
pects that the individual is an agent of a
drug cartel, unless law enforcement per-
sonnel of the United States continuously
monitor or control the firearm at all times.
SEC. 216. (a) None of the income retained in
the Department of Justice Working Capital
Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102–
140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be
available for obligation during fiscal year
2019, except up to $12,000,000 may be obli-
gated for implementation of a unified De-
partment of Justice financial management
system.
(b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobli-
gated balances transferred to the capital ac-
count of the Department of Justice Working
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public
Law 102–140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note)
shall be available for obligation in fiscal
year 2019, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
(c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess
unobligated balances available under section
524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code,
shall be available for obligation during fiscal
year 2019, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
SEC. 217. Discretionary funds that are made
available in this Act for the Office of Justice
Programs may be used to participate in Per-
formance Partnership Pilots authorized
under section 526 of division H of Public Law
113–76, section 524 of division G of Public Law
113–235, section 525 of division H of Public
Law 114–113, and such authorities as are en-
acted for Performance Partnership Pilots in
an appropriations Act for fiscal years 2018
and 2019.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Justice Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE III
SCIENCE
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, in carrying
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Policy, Organization, and Prior-
ities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire
of passenger motor vehicles, and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for official
reception and representation expenses, and
rental of conference rooms in the District of
Columbia, $5,544,000.
NATIONAL SPACE COUNCIL
For necessary expenses of the National
Space Council, in carrying out the purposes
of Title V of Public Law 100–685 and Execu-
tive Order 13803, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and services as authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to ex-
ceed $2,250 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $1,965,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the National Space Council may accept
personnel support from Federal agencies, de-
partments, and offices, and such Federal
agencies, departments, and offices may de-
tail staff without reimbursement to the Na-
tional Space Council for purposes provided
herein.
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
SCIENCE
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$6,905,700,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That, of the
amounts provided, $545,000,000 is for an or-
biter and $195,000,000 is for a lander to meet
the science goals for the Jupiter Europa mis-
sion as recommended in previous Planetary
Science Decadal surveys: Provided further,
That the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration shall use the Space Launch
System as the launch vehicles for the Jupi-
ter Europa missions, plan for an orbiter
launch no later than 2023 and a lander launch
no later than 2025, and include in the fiscal
year 2020 budget the 5-year funding profile
necessary to achieve these goals.
AERONAUTICS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
nautics research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$725,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space technology research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support, and services; mainte-
nance and repair, facility planning and de-
sign; space flight, spacecraft control, and
communications activities; program man-
agement; personnel and related costs, includ-
ing uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance,
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $926,900,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That
$180,000,000 shall be for RESTORE–L.
EXPLORATION
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of ex-
ploration research and development activi-
ties, including research, development, oper-
ations, support, and services; maintenance
and repair, facility planning and design;
space flight, spacecraft control, and commu-
nications activities; program management;
personnel and related costs, including uni-
forms or allowances therefor, as authorized
by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United
States Code; travel expenses; purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and pur-
chase, lease, charter, maintenance, and oper-
ation of mission and administrative aircraft,
$5,050,800,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That not less than
$1,350,000,000 shall be for the Orion Multi-
Purpose Crew Vehicle: Provided further, That
not less than $2,150,000,000 shall be for the
Space Launch System (SLS) launch vehicle,
which shall have a lift capability not less
than 130 metric tons and which shall have
core elements and an Exploration Upper
Stage developed simultaneously: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided for
SLS, not less than $150,000,000 shall be for
Exploration Upper Stage development: Pro-
vided further, That $592,800,000 shall be for
Exploration Ground Systems, including
$48,000,000 for a second mobile launch plat-
form and associated SLS activities: Provided
further, That the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA) shall provide
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate,
concurrent with the annual budget submis-
sion, a 5-year budget profile for an inte-
grated system that includes the Space
Launch System, the Orion Multi-Purpose
Crew Vehicle, and associated ground systems
that will ensure an Exploration Mission-2
crewed launch as early as possible, as well as
a system-based funding profile for a sus-
tained launch cadence beyond the initial
crewed test launch: Provided further, That
$958,000,000 shall be for exploration research
and development.
SPACE OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space operations research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support and services; space
flight, spacecraft control and communica-
tions activities, including operations, pro-
duction, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; program
management; personnel and related costs, in-
cluding uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $4,639,100,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S351
January 22, 2019
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND
MATHEMATICS ENGAGEMENT
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
space and aeronautical education research
and development activities, including re-
search, development, operations, support,
and services; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$110,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $21,000,000 shall be
for the Established Program to Stimulate
Competitive Research and $44,000,000 shall be
for the National Space Grant College and
Fellowship Program.
SAFETY, SECURITY AND MISSION SERVICES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science, aeronautics, space technology, ex-
ploration, space operations and education re-
search and development activities, including
research, development, operations, support,
and services; maintenance and repair, facil-
ity planning and design; space flight, space-
craft control, and communications activi-
ties; program management; personnel and re-
lated costs, including uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and
5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel ex-
penses; purchase and hire of passenger motor
vehicles; not to exceed $63,000 for official re-
ception and representation expenses; and
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and
operation of mission and administrative air-
craft, $2,755,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
CONSTRUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for construction of
facilities including repair, rehabilitation, re-
vitalization, and modification of facilities,
construction of new facilities and additions
to existing facilities, facility planning and
design, and restoration, and acquisition or
condemnation of real property, as authorized
by law, and environmental compliance and
restoration, $348,200,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2024: Provided, That pro-
ceeds from leases deposited into this account
shall be available for a period of 5 years to
the extent and in amounts as provided in an-
nual appropriations Acts: Provided further,
That such proceeds referred to in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be available for obliga-
tion for fiscal year 2019 in an amount not to
exceed $17,000,000: Provided further, That each
annual budget request shall include an an-
nual estimate of gross receipts and collec-
tions and proposed use of all funds collected
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United
States Code.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $39,300,000, of which
$500,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds for any announced prize otherwise
authorized shall remain available, without
fiscal year limitation, until a prize is
claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration in this Act may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations, but no
such appropriation, except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, shall be increased by more
than 10 percent by any such transfers. Bal-
ances so transferred shall be merged with
and available for the same purposes and the
same time period as the appropriations to
which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to
this provision shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
The spending plan required by this Act
shall be provided by NASA at the theme,
program, project and activity level. The
spending plan, as well as any subsequent
change of an amount established in that
spending plan that meets the notification re-
quirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be
treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
The unexpired balances of the ‘‘Education’’
account, for activities for which funds are
provided in this Act, may be transferred to
the ‘‘Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics Engagement’’ account estab-
lished in this Act. Balances so transferred
shall be merged with the funds in the newly
established account, but shall be available
under the same terms, conditions and period
of time as previously appropriated.
Not more than 50 percent of the amounts
made available in this Act for the Lunar Or-
bital Platform; Advanced Cislunar and Sur-
face Capabilities; Commercial LEO Develop-
ment; and Lunar Discovery and Exploration,
excluding the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter,
may be obligated until the Administrator
submits a multi-year plan to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate that identifies esti-
mated dates, by fiscal year, for Space
Launch System flights to build the Lunar
Orbital Platform; the commencement of
partnerships with commercial entities for
additional LEO missions to land humans and
rovers on the Moon; and conducting addi-
tional scientific activities on the Moon. The
multi-year plan shall include key milestones
to be met by fiscal year to achieve goals for
each of the lunar programs described in the
previous sentence and funding required by
fiscal year to achieve such milestones.
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
For necessary expenses in carrying out the
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code;
maintenance and operation of aircraft and
purchase of flight services for research sup-
port; acquisition of aircraft; and authorized
travel; $6,520,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, of which not to ex-
ceed $544,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for polar research and operations
support, and for reimbursement to other
Federal agencies for operational and science
support and logistical and other related ac-
tivities for the United States Antarctic pro-
gram: Provided, That receipts for scientific
support services and materials furnished by
the National Research Centers and other Na-
tional Science Foundation supported re-
search facilities may be credited to this ap-
propriation.
MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses for the acquisition,
construction, commissioning, and upgrading
of major research equipment, facilities, and
other such capital assets pursuant to the Na-
tional Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized
travel, $295,740,000, to remain available until
expended.
EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
For necessary expenses in carrying out
science, mathematics and engineering edu-
cation and human resources programs and
activities pursuant to the National Science
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et
seq.), including services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, au-
thorized travel, and rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia,
$910,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
AGENCY OPERATIONS AND AWARD MANAGEMENT
For agency operations and award manage-
ment necessary in carrying out the National
Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C.
1861 et seq.); services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of
passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allow-
ances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901
and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; rental
of conference rooms in the District of Co-
lumbia; and reimbursement of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for security
guard services; $329,540,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $8,280 is for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That contracts may be entered into
under this heading in fiscal year 2019 for
maintenance and operation of facilities and
for other services to be provided during the
next fiscal year.
OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms in the District of Columbia,
and the employment of experts and consult-
ants under section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code) involved in carrying out section
4 of the National Science Foundation Act of
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), $4,370,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General as authorized by the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $15,350,000, of which
$400,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Science Foundation in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers. Any transfer pursuant to this
paragraph shall be treated as a reprogram-
ming of funds under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
The Director of the National Science Foun-
dation (NSF) shall notify the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate at least 30 days in ad-
vance of any planned divestment through
transfer, decommissioning, termination, or
deconstruction of any NSF-owned facilities
or any NSF capital assets (including land,
structures, and equipment) valued greater
than $2,500,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Science Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE IV
RELATED AGENCIES
COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Commission
on Civil Rights, including hire of passenger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S352 January 22, 2019
motor vehicles, $10,065,000: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated in this para-
graph may be used to employ any individuals
under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of
title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations ex-
clusive of one special assistant for each Com-
missioner: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
used to reimburse Commissioners for more
than 75 billable days, with the exception of
the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable
days: Provided further, That none of the funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall be used
for any activity or expense that is not ex-
plicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil
Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C.
1975a).
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission as au-
thorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employ-
ment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 1963,
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic In-
formation Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of
2008 (Public Law 110–233), the ADA Amend-
ments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–325), and
the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–2), including services as au-
thorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code; hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title
31, United States Code; nonmonetary awards
to private citizens; and up to $29,500,000 for
payments to State and local enforcement
agencies for authorized services to the Com-
mission, $379,500,000: Provided, That the Com-
mission is authorized to make available for
official reception and representation ex-
penses not to exceed $2,250 from available
funds: Provided further, That the Commission
may take no action to implement any work-
force repositioning, restructuring, or reorga-
nization until such time as the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate have been notified of
such proposals, in accordance with the re-
programming requirements of section 505 of
this Act: Provided further, That the Chair is
authorized to accept and use any gift or do-
nation to carry out the work of the Commis-
sion.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Inter-
national Trade Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses,
$95,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For payment to the Legal Services Cor-
poration to carry out the purposes of the
Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974,
$415,000,000, of which $380,500,000 is for basic
field programs and required independent au-
dits; $5,100,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General, of which such amounts as may be
necessary may be used to conduct additional
audits of recipients; $19,400,000 is for manage-
ment and grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for
client self-help and information technology;
$4,500,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund;
and $1,500,000 is for loan repayment assist-
ance: Provided, That the Legal Services Cor-
poration may continue to provide locality
pay to officers and employees at a rate no
greater than that provided by the Federal
Government to Washington, DC-based em-
ployees as authorized by section 5304 of title
5, United States Code, notwithstanding sec-
tion 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)): Provided further,
That the authorities provided in section 205
of this Act shall be applicable to the Legal
Services Corporation: Provided further, That,
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act,
the Legal Services Corporation shall be con-
sidered an agency of the United States Gov-
ernment.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
None of the funds appropriated in this Act
to the Legal Services Corporation shall be
expended for any purpose prohibited or lim-
ited by, or contrary to any of the provisions
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of
Public Law 105–119, and all funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be subject to the same terms
and conditions set forth in such sections, ex-
cept that all references in sections 502 and
503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer
instead to 2018 and 2019, respectively.
MARINE MAMMAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Marine
Mammal Commission as authorized by title
II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,516,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
United States Trade Representative, includ-
ing the hire of passenger motor vehicles and
the employment of experts and consultants
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, $53,000,000, of which
$1,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $124,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TRADE ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities of the United States Trade
Representative authorized by section 611 of
the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforce-
ment Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including
transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived from the
Trade Enforcement Trust Fund: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to subsection
(d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act.
STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the State Jus-
tice Institute, as authorized by the State
Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701
et seq.) $5,971,000, of which $500,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses: Provided further, That, for
the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the
State Justice Institute shall be considered
an agency of the United States Government.
TITLE V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 501. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes not authorized by
the Congress.
SEC. 502. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 503. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract, pursuant
to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code,
shall be limited to those contracts where
such expenditures are a matter of public
record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 504. If any provision of this Act or the
application of such provision to any person
or circumstances shall be held invalid, the
remainder of the Act and the application of
each provision to persons or circumstances
other than those as to which it is held in-
valid shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 505. None of the funds provided under
this Act, or provided under previous appro-
priations Acts to the agencies funded by this
Act that remain available for obligation or
expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury of the
United States derived by the collection of
fees available to the agencies funded by this
Act, shall be available for obligation or ex-
penditure through a reprogramming of funds
that: (1) creates or initiates a new program,
project or activity; (2) eliminates a program,
project or activity; (3) increases funds or per-
sonnel by any means for any project or ac-
tivity for which funds have been denied or
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employ-
ees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, pro-
grams or activities; (6) contracts out or
privatizes any functions or activities pres-
ently performed by Federal employees; (7)
augments existing programs, projects or ac-
tivities in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent,
whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent
funding for any program, project or activity,
or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or (8)
results from any general savings, including
savings from a reduction in personnel, which
would result in a change in existing pro-
grams, projects or activities as approved by
Congress; unless the House and Senate Com-
mittees on Appropriations are notified 15
days in advance of such reprogramming of
funds.
SEC. 506. (a) If it has been finally deter-
mined by a court or Federal agency that any
person intentionally affixed a label bearing a
‘‘Made in America’’ inscription, or any in-
scription with the same meaning, to any
product sold in or shipped to the United
States that is not made in the United States,
the person shall be ineligible to receive any
contract or subcontract made with funds
made available in this Act, pursuant to the
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility pro-
cedures described in sections 9.400 through
9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)(1) To the extent practicable, with re-
spect to authorized purchases of promotional
items, funds made available by this Act shall
be used to purchase items that are manufac-
tured, produced, or assembled in the United
States, its territories or possessions.
(2) The term ‘‘promotional items’’ has the
meaning given the term in OMB Circular A–
87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
SEC. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Science Founda-
tion, and the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall provide to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a quar-
terly report on the status of balances of ap-
propriations at the account level. For unob-
ligated, uncommitted balances and unobli-
gated, committed balances the quarterly re-
ports shall separately identify the amounts
attributable to each source year of appro-
priation from which the balances were de-
rived. For balances that are obligated, but
unexpended, the quarterly reports shall sepa-
rately identify amounts by the year of obli-
gation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S353
January 22, 2019
(b) The report described in subsection (a)
shall be submitted within 30 days of the end
of each quarter.
(c) If a department or agency is unable to
fulfill any aspect of a reporting requirement
described in subsection (a) due to a limita-
tion of a current accounting system, the de-
partment or agency shall fulfill such aspect
to the maximum extent practicable under
such accounting system and shall identify
and describe in each quarterly report the ex-
tent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
SEC. 508. Any costs incurred by a depart-
ment or agency funded under this Act result-
ing from, or to prevent, personnel actions
taken in response to funding reductions in-
cluded in this Act shall be absorbed within
the total budgetary resources available to
such department or agency: Provided, That
the authority to transfer funds between ap-
propriations accounts as may be necessary
to carry out this section is provided in addi-
tion to authorities included elsewhere in this
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to
carry out this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion or expenditure except in compliance
with the procedures set forth in that section:
Provided further, That for the Department of
Commerce, this section shall also apply to
actions taken for the care and protection of
loan collateral or grant property.
SEC. 509. None of the funds provided by this
Act shall be available to promote the sale or
export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to
seek the reduction or removal by any foreign
country of restrictions on the marketing of
tobacco or tobacco products, except for re-
strictions which are not applied equally to
all tobacco or tobacco products of the same
type.
SEC. 510. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, amounts deposited or available
in the Fund established by section 1402 of
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98–473
(34 U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess
of $3,353,000,000 shall not be available for ob-
ligation until the following fiscal year: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding section 1402(d)
of such Act, of the amounts available from
the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall
remain available until expended to the De-
partment of Justice Office of Inspector Gen-
eral for oversight and auditing purposes; and
(2) 5 percent shall be available to the Office
for Victims of Crime for grants, consistent
with the requirements of the Victims of
Crime Act, to Indian tribes to improve serv-
ices for victims of crime.
SEC. 511. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Justice in this Act
may be used to discriminate against or deni-
grate the religious or moral beliefs of stu-
dents who participate in programs for which
financial assistance is provided from those
funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of
such students.
SEC. 512. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 513. (a) The Inspectors General of the
Department of Commerce, the Department
of Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, and the Legal Services Corpora-
tion shall conduct audits, pursuant to the In-
spector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants
or contracts for which funds are appro-
priated by this Act, and shall submit reports
to Congress on the progress of such audits,
which may include preliminary findings and
a description of areas of particular interest,
within 180 days after initiating such an audit
and every 180 days thereafter until any such
audit is completed.
(b) Within 60 days after the date on which
an audit described in subsection (a) by an In-
spector General is completed, the Secretary,
Attorney General, Administrator, Director,
or President, as appropriate, shall make the
results of the audit available to the public on
the Internet website maintained by the De-
partment, Administration, Foundation, or
Corporation, respectively. The results shall
be made available in redacted form to ex-
clude—
(1) any matter described in section 552(b) of
title 5, United States Code; and
(2) sensitive personal information for any
individual, the public access to which could
be used to commit identity theft or for other
inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
(c) Any person awarded a grant or contract
funded by amounts appropriated by this Act
shall submit a statement to the Secretary of
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Ad-
ministrator, Director, or President, as appro-
priate, certifying that no funds derived from
the grant or contract will be made available
through a subcontract or in any other man-
ner to another person who has a financial in-
terest in the person awarded the grant or
contract.
(d) The provisions of the preceding sub-
sections of this section shall take effect 30
days after the date on which the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the Director of the Office
of Government Ethics, determines that a
uniform set of rules and requirements, sub-
stantially similar to the requirements in
such subsections, consistently apply under
the executive branch ethics program to all
Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
SEC. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under this Act
may be used by the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact
or moderate-impact information system, as
defined for security categorization in the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology’s (NIST) Federal Information Proc-
essing Standard Publication 199, ‘‘Standards
for Security Categorization of Federal Infor-
mation and Information Systems’’ unless the
agency has—
(1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the
information systems against criteria devel-
oped by NIST and the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation (FBI) to inform acquisition deci-
sions for high-impact and moderate-impact
information systems within the Federal Gov-
ernment;
(2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the
presumptive awardee against available and
relevant threat information provided by the
FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
(3) in consultation with the FBI or other
appropriate Federal entity, conducted an as-
sessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or
sabotage associated with the acquisition of
such system, including any risk associated
with such system being produced, manufac-
tured, or assembled by one or more entities
identified by the United States Government
as posing a cyber threat, including but not
limited to, those that may be owned, di-
rected, or subsidized by the People’s Repub-
lic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
the Russian Federation.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or oth-
erwise made available under this Act may be
used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-
impact information system reviewed and as-
sessed under subsection (a) unless the head
of the assessing entity described in sub-
section (a) has—
(1) developed, in consultation with NIST,
the FBI, and supply chain risk management
experts, a mitigation strategy for any identi-
fied risks;
(2) determined, in consultation with NIST
and the FBI, that the acquisition of such sys-
tem is in the national interest of the United
States; and
(3) reported that determination to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate and the
agency Inspector General.
SEC. 515. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used in any way whatso-
ever to support or justify the use of torture
by any official or contract employee of the
United States Government.
SEC. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law or treaty, none of the funds
appropriated or otherwise made available
under this Act or any other Act may be ex-
pended or obligated by a department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality of the United States
to pay administrative expenses or to com-
pensate an officer or employee of the United
States in connection with requiring an ex-
port license for the export to Canada of com-
ponents, parts, accessories or attachments
for firearms listed in Category I, section
121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations
(International Trafficking in Arms Regula-
tions (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April
1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500
wholesale in any transaction, provided that
the conditions of subsection (b) of this sec-
tion are met by the exporting party for such
articles.
(b) The foregoing exemption from obtain-
ing an export license—
(1) does not exempt an exporter from filing
any Shipper’s Export Declaration or notifi-
cation letter required by law, or from being
otherwise eligible under the laws of the
United States to possess, ship, transport, or
export the articles enumerated in subsection
(a); and
(2) does not permit the export without a li-
cense of—
(A) fully automatic firearms and compo-
nents and parts for such firearms, other than
for end use by the Federal Government, or a
Provincial or Municipal Government of Can-
ada;
(B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or
complete breech mechanisms for any firearm
listed in Category I, other than for end use
by the Federal Government, or a Provincial
or Municipal Government of Canada; or
(C) articles for export from Canada to an-
other foreign destination.
(c) In accordance with this section, the
District Directors of Customs and post-
masters shall permit the permanent or tem-
porary export without a license of any un-
classified articles specified in subsection (a)
to Canada for end use in Canada or return to
the United States, or temporary import of
Canadian-origin items from Canada for end
use in the United States or return to Canada
for a Canadian citizen.
(d) The President may require export li-
censes under this section on a temporary
basis if the President determines, upon pub-
lication first in the Federal Register, that
the Government of Canada has implemented
or maintained inadequate import controls
for the articles specified in subsection (a),
such that a significant diversion of such arti-
cles has and continues to take place for use
in international terrorism or in the esca-
lation of a conflict in another nation. The
President shall terminate the requirements
of a license when reasons for the temporary
requirements have ceased.
SEC. 517. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no department, agency, or in-
strumentality of the United States receiving
appropriated funds under this Act or any
other Act shall obligate or expend in any
way such funds to pay administrative ex-
penses or the compensation of any officer or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S354 January 22, 2019
employee of the United States to deny any
application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 27 CFR
section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import
United States origin ‘‘curios or relics’’ fire-
arms, parts, or ammunition.
SEC. 518. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to include in any
new bilateral or multilateral trade agree-
ment the text of—
(1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United
States–Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
(2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United
States–Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
(3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United
States–Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
SEC. 519. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to authorize or issue
a national security letter in contravention of
any of the following laws authorizing the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue na-
tional security letters: The Right to Finan-
cial Privacy Act of 1978; The Electronic Com-
munications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair
Credit Reporting Act; The National Security
Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREE-
DOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended by
these Acts.
SEC. 520. If at any time during any quarter,
the program manager of a project within the
jurisdiction of the Departments of Com-
merce or Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation totaling more than
$75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe
that the total program cost has increased by
10 percent or more, the program manager
shall immediately inform the respective Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director. The Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director shall no-
tify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations within 30 days in writing of
such increase, and shall include in such no-
tice: the date on which such determination
was made; a statement of the reasons for
such increases; the action taken and pro-
posed to be taken to control future cost
growth of the project; changes made in the
performance or schedule milestones and the
degree to which such changes have contrib-
uted to the increase in total program costs
or procurement costs; new estimates of the
total project or procurement costs; and a
statement validating that the project’s man-
agement structure is adequate to control
total project or procurement costs.
SEC. 521. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for intelligence or intelligence re-
lated activities are deemed to be specifically
authorized by the Congress for purposes of
section 504 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal year 2019
until the enactment of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 522. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to enter into a contract in an amount
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in
excess of such amount unless the prospective
contractor or grantee certifies in writing to
the agency awarding the contract or grant
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief,
the contractor or grantee has filed all Fed-
eral tax returns required during the three
years preceding the certification, has not
been convicted of a criminal offense under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has
not, more than 90 days prior to certification,
been notified of any unpaid Federal tax as-
sessment for which the liability remains
unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the sub-
ject of an installment agreement or offer in
compromise that has been approved by the
Internal Revenue Service and is not in de-
fault, or the assessment is the subject of a
non-frivolous administrative or judicial pro-
ceeding.
(RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 523. (a) Of the unobligated balances
from prior year appropriations available to
the Department of Commerce, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2019, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Economic Development Administra-
tion, Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’, $10,000,000; and
(2) ‘‘National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Industrial Technology Serv-
ices’’, $2,000,000.
(b) Of the unobligated balances available
to the Department of Justice, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2019, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Working Capital Fund’’, $151,000,000;
(2) ‘‘Federal Bureau of Investigation, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, $124,326,000 including
from, but not limited to, fees collected to de-
fray expenses for the automation of finger-
print identification and criminal justice in-
formation services and associated costs;
(3) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Office on Violence Against Women,
Violence Against Women Prevention and
Prosecution Programs’’, $10,000,000;
(4) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Office of Justice Programs’’,
$70,000,000;
(5) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices’’, $16,500,000; and
(6) ‘‘Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture
Fund’’, $674,000,000, is permanently re-
scinded.
(c) The Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice shall submit to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a report no later than Sep-
tember 1, 2019, specifying the amount of each
rescission made pursuant to subsections (a)
and (b).
(d) The amounts rescinded in subsections
(a) and (b) shall not be from amounts that
were designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency or disaster relief requirement pursu-
ant to the concurrent resolution on the
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 524. (a) Any unobligated balances
identified in the following Treasury Appro-
priation Fund Symbols are hereby perma-
nently cancelled: 80X0114; 80X0111; 80X0110;
and 80X0112.
(b) Upon enactment of this Act:
(1) obligated balances in 80X0114 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to such obligations may be made from
80–0130;
(2) obligated balances in 80X0111 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0122, Safe-
ty, Security and Mission Services, 80–0115,
Space Flight Capabilities and 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to such obligations may be made from
80–0122, 80–0115 and 80–0130;
(3) obligated balances in 80X0110 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to said obligations may be made from
80–0130; and
(4) obligated balances in 80X0112 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0122, Safe-
ty, Security and Mission Services and 80–
0130, Construction and Environmental Com-
pliance and Restoration, and any upward ad-
justments to such obligations may be made
from 80–0122 and 80–0130.
(c) Following the cancellation of unobli-
gated balances and transfer of obligated bal-
ances in 80X0114, 80X0111, 80X0110 and
80X0112, such accounts shall be closed. Any
collections authorized or required to be cred-
ited to these accounts that are not received
before closing of such accounts shall be de-
posited in the Treasury as miscellaneous re-
ceipts.
SEC. 525. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to purchase first
class or premium airline travel in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 526. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees from a Federal department or agen-
cy, who are stationed in the United States,
at any single conference occurring outside
the United States unless such conference is a
law enforcement training or operational con-
ference for law enforcement personnel and
the majority of Federal employees in attend-
ance are law enforcement personnel sta-
tioned outside the United States.
SEC. 527. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to transfer, release,
or assist in the transfer or release to or with-
in the United States, its territories, or pos-
sessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any
other detainee who—
(1) is not a United States citizen or a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009,
at the United States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of De-
fense.
SEC. 528. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to construct, acquire,
or modify any facility in the United States,
its territories, or possessions to house any
individual described in subsection (c) for the
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the
custody or under the effective control of the
Department of Defense.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall
not apply to any modification of facilities at
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.
(c) An individual described in this sub-
section is any individual who, as of June 24,
2009, is located at United States Naval Sta-
tion, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who—
(1) is not a citizen of the United States or
a member of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is—
(A) in the custody or under the effective
control of the Department of Defense; or
(B) otherwise under detention at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
SEC. 529. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall instruct any de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States receiving funds appropriated
under this Act to track undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts and include in its
annual performance plan and performance
and accountability reports the following:
(1) Details on future action the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality will take
to resolve undisbursed balances in expired
grant accounts.
(2) The method that the department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality uses to track
undisbursed balances in expired grant ac-
counts.
(3) Identification of undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts that may be re-
turned to the Treasury of the United States.
(4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details
on the total number of expired grant ac-
counts with undisbursed balances (on the
first day of each fiscal year) for the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S355
January 22, 2019
total finances that have not been obligated
to a specific project remaining in the ac-
counts.
SEC. 530. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used for the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA), the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (OSTP), or the National Space
Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, pro-
mulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral
policy, program, order, or contract of any
kind to participate, collaborate, or coordi-
nate bilaterally in any way with China or
any Chinese-owned company unless such ac-
tivities are specifically authorized by a law
enacted after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to effectuate the
hosting of official Chinese visitors at facili-
ties belonging to or utilized by NASA.
(c) The limitations described in sub-
sections (a) and (b) shall not apply to activi-
ties which NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after con-
sultation with the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, have certified—
(1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer
of technology, data, or other information
with national security or economic security
implications to China or a Chinese-owned
company; and
(2) will not involve knowing interactions
with officials who have been determined by
the United States to have direct involvement
with violations of human rights.
(d) Any certification made under sub-
section (c) shall be submitted to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, no later
than 30 days prior to the activity in question
and shall include a description of the purpose
of the activity, its agenda, its major partici-
pants, and its location and timing.
SEC. 531. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to
act on, an application for the importation of
any model of shotgun if—
(1) all other requirements of law with re-
spect to the proposed importation are met;
and
(2) no application for the importation of
such model of shotgun, in the same configu-
ration, had been denied by the Attorney Gen-
eral prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis
that the shotgun was not particularly suit-
able for or readily adaptable to sporting pur-
poses.
SEC. 532. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication, or
other law enforcement- or victim assistance-
related activity.
SEC. 533. The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights,
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, the International Trade Commis-
sion, the Legal Services Corporation, the
Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of
Science and Technology Policy and the
United States Trade Representative, the Na-
tional Space Council, and the State Justice
Institute shall submit spending plans, signed
by the respective department or agency
head, to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate within 45 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 534. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
SEC. 535. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, none of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be used to pay award or incentive
fees for contractor performance that has
been judged to be below satisfactory per-
formance or for performance that does not
meet the basic requirements of a contract.
SEC. 536. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 7606 (‘‘Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp
Research’’) of the Agricultural Act of 2014
(Public Law 113–79) by the Department of
Justice or the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 537. None of the funds made available
under this Act to the Department of Justice
may be used, with respect to any of the
States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkan-
sas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Dela-
ware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Min-
nesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Ne-
vada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mex-
ico, New York, North Carolina, North Da-
kota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsyl-
vania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Ten-
nessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and
Wyoming, or with respect to the District of
Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico, to prevent
any of them from implementing their own
laws that authorize the use, distribution,
possession, or cultivation of medical mari-
juana.
SEC. 538. The Department of Commerce,
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, and the National Science Founda-
tion shall provide a quarterly report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate on any of-
ficial travel to China by any employee of
such Department or agency, including the
purpose of such travel.
SEC. 539. Of the amounts made available by
this Act, not less than 10 percent of each
total amount provided, respectively, for Pub-
lic Works grants authorized by the Public
Works and Economic Development Act of
1965 and grants authorized by section 27 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allo-
cated for assistance in persistent poverty
counties: Provided, That for purposes of this
section, the term ‘‘persistent poverty coun-
ties’’ means any county that has had 20 per-
cent or more of its population living in pov-
erty over the past 30 years, as measured by
the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the
most recent Small Area Income and Poverty
Estimates.
SEC. 540. None of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for obligation for the
James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) after
December 31, 2019, if the individual identified
under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of
title 51, United States Code, as responsible
for JWST determines that the formulation
and development costs (with development
cost as defined under section 30104 of title 51,
United States Code) are likely to exceed
$8,802,700,000, unless the program is modified
so that the costs do not exceed $8,802,700,000.
SEC. 541. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be expended during fiscal
year 2019 to prepare for the shutdown of the
Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared As-
tronomy.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION C—FINANCIAL SERVICES AND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Depart-
mental Offices including operation and
maintenance of the Treasury Building and
Freedman’s Bank Building; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and
improvements of, and purchase of commer-
cial insurance policies for, real properties
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for
the performance of official business; execu-
tive direction program activities; inter-
national affairs and economic policy activi-
ties; domestic finance and tax policy activi-
ties, including technical assistance to Puerto
Rico; and Treasury-wide management poli-
cies and programs activities, $214,576,000:
Provided, That of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not to exceed $700,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses, of
which necessary amounts shall be available
for expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force, and not to ex-
ceed $350,000 shall be for other official recep-
tion and representation expenses;
(2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen
emergencies of a confidential nature to be
allocated and expended under the direction
of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate; and
(3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020, for—
(A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement
Audit and Internal Control Program;
(B) information technology modernization
requirements;
(C) the audit, oversight, and administra-
tion of the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust
Fund;
(D) the development and implementation
of programs within the Office of Critical In-
frastructure Protection and Compliance Pol-
icy, including entering into cooperative
agreements;
(E) operations and maintenance of facili-
ties; and
(F) international operations.
OFFICE OF TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL
INTELLIGENCE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the necessary expenses of the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to safe-
guard the financial system against illicit use
and to combat rogue nations, terrorist
facilitators, weapons of mass destruction
proliferators, money launderers, drug king-
pins, and other national security threats,
$159,000,000: Provided, That of the amounts
appropriated under this heading, up to
$10,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACCOUNT
For salaries and expenses for enhanced cy-
bersecurity for systems operated by the De-
partment of the Treasury, $25,208,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall supplement and
not supplant any other amounts made avail-
able to the Treasury offices and bureaus for
cybersecurity: Provided further, That the
Chief Information Officer of the individual
offices and bureaus shall submit a spend plan
for each investment to the Treasury Chief
Information Officer for approval: Provided
further, That the submitted spend plan shall
be reviewed and approved by the Treasury
Chief Information Officer prior to the obliga-
tion of funds under this heading: Provided
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S356 January 22, 2019
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading $1,000,000 shall be
available for administrative expenses for the
Treasury Chief Information Officer to pro-
vide oversight of the investments made
under this heading: Provided further, That
such funds shall supplement and not sup-
plant any other amounts made available to
the Treasury Chief Information Officer.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For development and acquisition of auto-
matic data processing equipment, software,
and services and for repairs and renovations
to buildings owned by the Department of the
Treasury, $4,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That these
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in
amounts as necessary to satisfy the require-
ments of the Department’s offices, bureaus,
and other organizations: Provided further,
That this transfer authority shall be in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
in this Act: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be used to support or supplement ‘‘In-
ternal Revenue Service, Operations Support’’
or ‘‘Internal Revenue Service, Business Sys-
tems Modernization’’.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall
be available for unforeseen emergencies of a
confidential nature, to be allocated and ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General of the Treasury; of which up to
$2,800,000 to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be for audits and inves-
tigations conducted pursuant to section 1608
of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustain-
ability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived
Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of
2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to
exceed $1,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX
ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Treasury In-
spector General for Tax Administration in
carrying out the Inspector General Act of
1978, as amended, including purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C.
1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Inspector General for Tax Administra-
tion; $170,250,000, of which $5,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be avail-
able for official travel expenses; of which not
to exceed $500,000 shall be available for un-
foreseen emergencies of a confidential na-
ture, to be allocated and expended under the
direction of the Inspector General for Tax
Administration; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 shall be available for official reception
and representation expenses.
SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE
TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Special Inspector General in carrying out
the provisions of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–
343), $23,000,000.
FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
training expenses of non-Federal and foreign
government personnel to attend meetings
and training concerned with domestic and
foreign financial intelligence activities, law
enforcement, and financial regulation; serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to ex-
ceed $12,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for assistance to
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or
without reimbursement, $117,800,000, of
which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2021.
BUREAU OF THE FISCAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of operations of the
Bureau of the Fiscal Service, $338,280,000; of
which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, is for in-
formation systems modernization initia-
tives; and of which $5,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse
administrative and personnel expenses for fi-
nancial management of the Fund, as author-
ized by section 1012 of Public Law 101–380.
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE
BUREAU
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of carrying out sec-
tion 1111 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles, $119,600,000; of which not to exceed $6,000
for official reception and representation ex-
penses; and of which not to exceed $50,000
shall be available for cooperative research
and development programs for laboratory
services; and provision of laboratory assist-
ance to State and local agencies with or
without reimbursement: Provided, That of
the amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accel-
erating the processing of formula and label
applications: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be for the costs associ-
ated with enforcement of the trade practice
provisions of the Federal Alcohol Adminis-
tration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).
UNITED STATES MINT
UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND
Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, the United States Mint is pro-
vided funding through the United States
Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs asso-
ciated with the production of circulating
coins, numismatic coins, and protective
services, including both operating expenses
and capital investments: Provided, That the
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obli-
gations incurred during fiscal year 2019
under such section 5136 for circulating coin-
age and protective service capital invest-
ments of the United States Mint shall not
exceed $30,000,000.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT
To carry out the Riegle Community Devel-
opment and Regulatory Improvement Act of
1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103–
325), including services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for EX–3,
$250,000,000. Of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not less than $160,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to Small and/
or Emerging Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions Assistance awards, is
available until September 30, 2020, for finan-
cial assistance and technical assistance
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up
to $1,600,000 may be available for training
and outreach under section 109 of Public Law
103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4708), of which up to
$2,527,250 may be used for the cost of direct
loans, and of which up to $3,000,000, notwith-
standing subsection (d) of section 108 of Pub-
lic Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707 (d)), may be
available to provide financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
to community development financial institu-
tions to expand investments that benefit in-
dividuals with disabilities: Provided, That
the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, in-
cluding the cost of modifying such loans,
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided fur-
ther, That these funds are available to sub-
sidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans not to exceed
$25,000,000;
(2) not less than $16,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
programs designed to benefit Native Amer-
ican, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native
communities and provided primarily through
qualified community development lender or-
ganizations with experience and expertise in
community development banking and lend-
ing in Indian country, Native American or-
ganizations, tribes and tribal organizations,
and other suitable providers;
(3) not less than $25,000,000 is available
until September 30, 2020, for the Bank Enter-
prise Award program;
(4) not less than $22,000,000, notwith-
standing subsections (d) and (e) of section 108
of Public Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(d) and
(e)), is available until September 30, 2020, for
a Healthy Food Financing Initiative to pro-
vide financial assistance, technical assist-
ance, training, and outreach to community
development financial institutions for the
purpose of offering affordable financing and
technical assistance to expand the avail-
ability of healthy food options in distressed
communities;
(5) up to $27,000,000 is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, for administrative expenses,
including administration of CDFI fund pro-
grams and the New Markets Tax Credit Pro-
gram, of which not less than $1,000,000 is for
development of tools to better assess and in-
form CDFI investment performance, and up
to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan program; and
(6) during fiscal year 2019, none of the
funds available under this heading are avail-
able for the cost, as defined in section 502 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of com-
mitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under section 114A of the Riegle Community
Development and Regulatory Improvement
Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That
commitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under such section 114A shall not exceed
$500,000,000: Provided further, That such sec-
tion 114A shall remain in effect until Decem-
ber 31, 2019: Provided further, That of the
funds awarded under this heading, not less
than 10 percent shall be used for awards that
support investments that serve populations
living in persistent poverty counties: Pro-
vided further, That for the purposes of this
paragraph and paragraph (1) above, the term
‘‘persistent poverty counties’’ means any
county that has had 20 percent or more of its
population living in poverty over the past 30
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 de-
cennial censuses and the 2011–2015 5-year
data series available from the American
Community Survey of the Census Bureau.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S357
January 22, 2019
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
TAXPAYER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to provide taxpayer serv-
ices, including pre-filing assistance and edu-
cation, filing and account services, taxpayer
advocacy services, and other services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as
may be determined by the Commissioner,
$2,491,554,000, of which not less than $9,890,000
shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elder-
ly Program, of which not less than $12,000,000
shall be available for low-income taxpayer
clinic grants, of which not less than
$18,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be available for a Com-
munity Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
matching grants program for tax return
preparation assistance, and of which not less
than $207,000,000 shall be available for oper-
ating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate
Service: Provided, That of the amounts made
available for the Taxpayer Advocate Service,
not less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity
theft and refund fraud casework.
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for tax enforce-
ment activities of the Internal Revenue
Service to determine and collect owed taxes,
to provide legal and litigation support, to
conduct criminal investigations, to enforce
criminal statutes related to violations of in-
ternal revenue laws and other financial
crimes, to purchase and hire passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to pro-
vide other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Commissioner, $4,860,000,000, of which not
to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which not
less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Inter-
agency Crime and Drug Enforcement pro-
gram.
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to support taxpayer serv-
ices and enforcement programs, including
rent payments; facilities services; printing;
postage; physical security; headquarters and
other IRS-wide administration activities; re-
search and statistics of income; tele-
communications; information technology de-
velopment, enhancement, operations, main-
tenance, and security; the hire of passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the oper-
ations of the Internal Revenue Service Over-
sight Board; and other services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be de-
termined by the Commissioner; $3,724,000,000,
of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain
available until expended for acquisition of
equipment and construction, repair and ren-
ovation of facilities; of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for research; of which not to
exceed $20,000 shall be for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided, That
not later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate and the Comptroller General
of the United States detailing the cost and
schedule performance for its major informa-
tion technology investments, including the
purpose and life-cycle stages of the invest-
ments; the reasons for any cost and schedule
variances; the risks of such investments and
strategies the Internal Revenue Service is
using to mitigate such risks; and the ex-
pected developmental milestones to be
achieved and costs to be incurred in the next
quarter: Provided further, That the Internal
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget
justification for fiscal year 2020, a summary
of cost and schedule performance informa-
tion for its major information technology
systems.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service’s business systems mod-
ernization program, $150,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, for the
capital asset acquisition of information
technology systems, including management
and related contractual costs of said acquisi-
tions, including related Internal Revenue
Service labor costs, and contractual costs as-
sociated with operations authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later than 30
days after the end of each quarter, the Inter-
nal Revenue Service shall submit a report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate and
the Comptroller General of the United States
detailing the cost and schedule performance
for major information technology invest-
ments, including the purposes and life-cycle
stages of the investments; the reasons for
any cost and schedule variances; the risks of
such investments and the strategies the In-
ternal Revenue Service is using to mitigate
such risks; and the expected developmental
milestones to be achieved and costs to be in-
curred in the next quarter.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. Not to exceed 4 percent of the ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service under the ‘‘En-
forcement’’ heading, and not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any other appropriation made avail-
able in this Act to the Internal Revenue
Service, may be transferred to any other In-
ternal Revenue Service appropriation upon
the advance approval of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 102. The Internal Revenue Service
shall maintain an employee training pro-
gram, which shall include the following top-
ics: taxpayers’ rights, dealing courteously
with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, eth-
ics, and the impartial application of tax law.
SEC. 103. The Internal Revenue Service
shall institute and enforce policies and pro-
cedures that will safeguard the confiden-
tiality of taxpayer information and protect
taxpayers against identity theft.
SEC. 104. Funds made available by this or
any other Act to the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice shall be available for improved facilities
and increased staffing to provide sufficient
and effective 1–800 help line service for tax-
payers. The Commissioner shall continue to
make improvements to the Internal Revenue
Service 1–800 help line service a priority and
allocate resources necessary to enhance the
response time to taxpayer communications,
particularly with regard to victims of tax-re-
lated crimes.
SEC. 105. The Internal Revenue Service
shall issue a notice of confirmation of any
address change relating to an employer mak-
ing employment tax payments, and such no-
tice shall be sent to both the employer’s
former and new address and an officer or em-
ployee of the Internal Revenue Service shall
give special consideration to an offer-in-com-
promise from a taxpayer who has been the
victim of fraud by a third party payroll tax
preparer.
SEC. 106. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used by the Internal
Revenue Service to target citizens of the
United States for exercising any right guar-
anteed under the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
SEC. 107. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Internal Rev-
enue Service to target groups for regulatory
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
SEC. 108. None of funds made available by
this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
shall be obligated or expended on con-
ferences that do not adhere to the proce-
dures, verification processes, documentation
requirements, and policies issued by the
Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital Of-
fice, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a
result of the recommendations in the report
published on May 31, 2013, by the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration
entitled ‘‘Review of the August 2010 Small
Business/Self-Employed Division’s Con-
ference in Anaheim, California’’ (Reference
Number 2013–10–037).
SEC. 109. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
may be obligated or expended—
(1) to make a payment to any employee
under a bonus, award, or recognition pro-
gram; or
(2) under any hiring or personnel selection
process with respect to re-hiring a former
employee, unless such program or process
takes into account the conduct and Federal
tax compliance of such employee or former
employee.
SEC. 110. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (relating to confidentiality and disclo-
sure of returns and return information).
SEC. 111. Except to the extent provided in
section 6014, 6020, or 6201(d) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, no funds in this or any
other Act shall be available to the Secretary
of the Treasury to provide to any person a
proposed final return or statement for use by
such person to satisfy a filing or reporting
requirement under such Code.
SEC. 112. In addition to the amounts other-
wise made available in this Act for the Inter-
nal Revenue Service, $77,000,000, to be avail-
able until September 30, 2020, shall be trans-
ferred by the Commissioner to the ‘‘Tax-
payer Services’’, ‘‘Enforcement’’, or ‘‘Oper-
ations Support’’ accounts of the Internal
Revenue Service for an additional amount to
be used solely for carrying out Public Law
115–97: Provided, That such funds shall not be
available until the Commissioner submits to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
spending plan for such funds.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 113. Appropriations to the Department
of the Treasury in this Act shall be available
for uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase
of insurance for official motor vehicles oper-
ated in foreign countries; purchase of motor
vehicles without regard to the general pur-
chase price limitations for vehicles pur-
chased and used overseas for the current fis-
cal year; entering into contracts with the
Department of State for the furnishing of
health and medical services to employees
and their dependents serving in foreign coun-
tries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109.
SEC. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriations in this title made available
under the headings ‘‘Departmental Offices—
Salaries and Expenses’’, ‘‘Office of Inspector
General’’, ‘‘Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program’’, ‘‘Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network’’, ‘‘Bureau of
the Fiscal Service’’, and ‘‘Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau’’ may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations upon the
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S358 January 22, 2019
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
under this section may increase or decrease
any such appropriation by more than 2 per-
cent.
SEC. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service may be transferred
to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration’s appropriation upon the ad-
vance approval of the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any such appro-
priation by more than 2 percent.
SEC. 116. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act or otherwise available to the De-
partment of the Treasury or the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing may be used to rede-
sign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
SEC. 117. The Secretary of the Treasury
may transfer funds from the ‘‘Bureau of the
Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses’’ to the
Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover
the costs of debt collection: Provided, That
such amounts shall be reimbursed to such
salaries and expenses account from debt col-
lections received in the Debt Collection
Fund.
SEC. 118. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used by the United States
Mint to construct or operate any museum
without the explicit approval of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate, the House Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
SEC. 119. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act or source to the Department of the
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing, and the United States Mint, indi-
vidually or collectively, may be used to con-
solidate any or all functions of the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing and the United
States Mint without the explicit approval of
the House Committee on Financial Services;
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 120. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for the Department of the Treas-
ury’s intelligence or intelligence related ac-
tivities are deemed to be specifically author-
ized by the Congress for purposes of section
504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2019 until the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019.
SEC. 121. Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made
available from the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing’s Industrial Revolving Fund for
necessary official reception and representa-
tion expenses.
SEC. 122. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit a Capital Investment Plan to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives not
later than 30 days following the submission
of the annual budget submitted by the Presi-
dent: Provided, That such Capital Investment
Plan shall include capital investment spend-
ing from all accounts within the Department
of the Treasury, including but not limited to
the Department-wide Systems and Capital
Investment Programs account, Treasury
Franchise Fund account, and the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further,
That such Capital Investment Plan shall in-
clude expenditures occurring in previous fis-
cal years for each capital investment project
that has not been fully completed.
SEC. 123. Within 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall submit an itemized report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate on
the amount of total funds charged to each of-
fice by the Franchise Fund including the
amount charged for each service provided by
the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed
description of the services, a detailed expla-
nation of how each charge for each service is
calculated, and a description of the role cus-
tomers have in governing in the Franchise
Fund.
SEC. 124. During fiscal year 2019—
(1) none of the funds made available in this
or any other Act may be used by the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, including the Internal
Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize
any regulation, revenue ruling, or other
guidance not limited to a particular tax-
payer relating to the standard which is used
to determine whether an organization is op-
erated exclusively for the promotion of so-
cial welfare for purposes of section 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (includ-
ing the proposed regulations published at 78
Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 29, 2013)); and
(2) the standard and definitions as in effect
on January 1, 2010, which are used to make
such determinations shall apply after the
date of the enactment of this Act for pur-
poses of determining status under section
501(c)(4) of such Code of organizations cre-
ated on, before, or after such date.
SEC. 125. (a) Not later than 60 days after
the end of each quarter, the Office of Finan-
cial Stability and the Office of Financial Re-
search shall submit reports on their activi-
ties to the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate,
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
(b) The reports required under subsection
(a) shall include—
(1) the obligations made during the pre-
vious quarter by object class, office, and ac-
tivity;
(2) the estimated obligations for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year by object class, of-
fice, and activity;
(3) the number of full-time equivalents
within each office during the previous quar-
ter;
(4) the estimated number of full-time
equivalents within each office for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year; and
(5) actions taken to achieve the goals, ob-
jectives, and performance measures of each
office.
(c) At the request of any such Committees
specified in subsection (a), the Office of Fi-
nancial Stability and the Office of Financial
Research shall make officials available to
testify on the contents of the reports re-
quired under subsection (a).
SEC. 126. Amounts made available under
the heading ‘‘Office of Terrorism and Finan-
cial Intelligence’’ shall be available to reim-
burse the ‘‘Departmental Offices—Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for expenses incurred
in such account for reception and representa-
tion expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force.
SEC. 127. Beginning in fiscal year 2019 and
for each fiscal year thereafter, amounts in
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Fund
may be used for the acquisition of necessary
land for, and construction of, a replacement
currency production facility.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of the Treasury Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE
PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the White
House as authorized by law, including not to
exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence ex-
penses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; hire of passenger
motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed
$100,000 to be expended and accounted for as
provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed
$19,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, to be available for allocation
within the Executive Office of the President;
and for necessary expenses of the Office of
Policy Development, including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107,
$55,000,000.
EXECUTIVE RESIDENCE AT THE WHITE HOUSE
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Executive
Residence at the White House, $13,081,000, to
be expended and accounted for as provided by
3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112–114.
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
For the reimbursable expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence at the White House, such
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all
reimbursable operating expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, such amount for re-
imbursable operating expenses shall be the
exclusive authority of the Executive Resi-
dence to incur obligations and to receive off-
setting collections, for such expenses: Pro-
vided further, That the Executive Residence
shall require each person sponsoring a reim-
bursable political event to pay in advance an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the
event, and all such advance payments shall
be credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the Executive Residence shall require the na-
tional committee of the political party of
the President to maintain on deposit $25,000,
to be separately accounted for and available
for expenses relating to reimbursable polit-
ical events sponsored by such committee
during such fiscal year: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall ensure
that a written notice of any amount owed for
a reimbursable operating expense under this
paragraph is submitted to the person owing
such amount within 60 days after such ex-
pense is incurred, and that such amount is
collected within 30 days after the submission
of such notice: Provided further, That the Ex-
ecutive Residence shall charge interest and
assess penalties and other charges on any
such amount that is not reimbursed within
such 30 days, in accordance with the interest
and penalty provisions applicable to an out-
standing debt on a United States Govern-
ment claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided fur-
ther, That each such amount that is reim-
bursed, and any accompanying interest and
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall prepare
and submit to the Committees on Appropria-
tions, by not later than 90 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a re-
port setting forth the reimbursable oper-
ating expenses of the Executive Residence
during the preceding fiscal year, including
the total amount of such expenses, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable official and ceremonial events, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S359
January 22, 2019
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable political events, and the portion of
each such amount that has been reimbursed
as of the date of the report: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall maintain
a system for the tracking of expenses related
to reimbursable events within the Executive
Residence that includes a standard for the
classification of any such expense as polit-
ical or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no
provision of this paragraph may be construed
to exempt the Executive Residence from any
other applicable requirement of subchapter I
or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States
Code.
WHITE HOUSE REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of the Executive Residence at the
White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d),
$750,000, to remain available until expended,
for required maintenance, resolution of safe-
ty and health issues, and continued prevent-
ative maintenance.
COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Council of
Economic Advisers in carrying out its func-
tions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15
U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND HOMELAND
SECURITY COUNCIL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National Se-
curity Council and the Homeland Security
Council, including services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,000,000.
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
ministration, including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire
of passenger motor vehicles, $100,000,000, of
which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain
available until expended for continued mod-
ernization of information resources within
the Executive Office of the President.
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Management and Budget, including hire of
passenger motor vehicles and services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the
provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, and to prepare and submit the
budget of the United States Government, in
accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code, $102,000,000, of which not
to exceed $3,000 shall be available for official
representation expenses: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated in this Act for the
Office of Management and Budget may be
used for the purpose of reviewing any agri-
cultural marketing orders or any activities
or regulations under the provisions of the
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of
1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further,
That none of the funds made available for
the Office of Management and Budget by this
Act may be expended for the altering of the
transcript of actual testimony of witnesses,
except for testimony of officials of the Office
of Management and Budget, before the Com-
mittees on Appropriations or their sub-
committees: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available for the Office of
Management and Budget by this Act may be
expended for the altering of the annual work
plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for
submission to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That of the funds
made available for the Office of Management
and Budget by this Act, no less than three
full-time equivalent senior staff position
shall be dedicated solely to the Office of the
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordi-
nator: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of
Management and Budget, for evaluating or
determining if water resource project or
study reports submitted by the Chief of En-
gineers acting through the Secretary of the
Army are in compliance with all applicable
laws, regulations, and requirements relevant
to the Civil Works water resource planning
process: Provided further, That the Office of
Management and Budget shall have not more
than 60 days in which to perform budgetary
policy reviews of water resource matters on
which the Chief of Engineers has reported:
Provided further, That the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall notify
the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees when the 60-day review
is initiated: Provided further, That if water
resource reports have not been transmitted
to the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees within 15 days after the
end of the Office of Management and Budget
review period based on the notification from
the Director, Congress shall assume Office of
Management and Budget concurrence with
the report and act accordingly.
In addition, $1,000,000 for the Office of In-
formation and Regulatory Affairs to hire ad-
ditional personnel dedicated to regulatory
review and reforms: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any other
amounts available for such purpose: Provided
further, That these funds may not be used to
backfill vacancies.
OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; for research ac-
tivities pursuant to the Office of National
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–469); not to exceed
$10,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses; and for participation in joint
projects or in the provision of services on
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit,
research, or public organizations or agencies,
with or without reimbursement, $18,400,000:
Provided, That the Office is authorized to ac-
cept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both
real and personal, public and private, with-
out fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of
aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.
FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS
PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy’s High Intensity
Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $280,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2020,
for drug control activities consistent with
the approved strategy for each of the des-
ignated High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas (‘‘HIDTAs’’), of which not less than 51
percent shall be transferred to State and
local entities for drug control activities and
shall be obligated not later than 120 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided, That
up to 49 percent may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies and departments in amounts
determined by the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, of which up to
$2,700,000 may be used for auditing services
and associated activities: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the requirements of
Public Law 106–58, any unexpended funds ob-
ligated prior to fiscal year 2017 may be used
for any other approved activities of that
HIDTA, subject to reprogramming require-
ments: Provided further, That each HIDTA
designated as of September 30, 2018, shall be
funded at not less than the fiscal year 2018
base level, unless the Director submits to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate justifica-
tion for changes to those levels based on
clearly articulated priorities and published
Office of National Drug Control Policy per-
formance measures of effectiveness: Provided
further, That the Director shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the initial
allocation of fiscal year 2019 funding among
HIDTAs not later than 45 days after enact-
ment of this Act, and shall notify the Com-
mittees of planned uses of discretionary
HIDTA funding, as determined in consulta-
tion with the HIDTA Directors, not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds so transferred
from this appropriation are not necessary for
the purposes provided herein and upon notifi-
cation to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate, such amounts may be transferred back
to this appropriation.
OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For other drug control activities author-
ized by the Office of National Drug Control
Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public
Law 109–469), $118,327,000, to remain available
until expended, which shall be available as
follows: $100,000,000 for the Drug-Free Com-
munities Program, of which $2,000,000 shall
be made available as directed by section 4 of
Public Law 107–82, as amended by Public Law
109–469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for
drug court training and technical assistance;
$9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,577,000
for the United States membership dues to
the World Anti-Doping Agency; and $1,250,000
shall be made available as directed by sec-
tion 1105 of Public Law 109–469; and $3,000,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for activities authorized by section 103 of
Public Law 114–198: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may be
transferred to other Federal departments
and agencies to carry out such activities.
UNANTICIPATED NEEDS
For expenses necessary to enable the Presi-
dent to meet unanticipated needs, in further-
ance of the national interest, security, or de-
fense which may arise at home or abroad
during the current fiscal year, as authorized
by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for the furtherance
of integrated, efficient, secure, and effective
uses of information technology in the Fed-
eral Government, $28,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget may transfer these funds to one or
more other agencies to carry out projects to
meet these purposes.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to enable the Vice
President to provide assistance to the Presi-
dent in connection with specially assigned
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence
expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; and hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,288,000.
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the care, operation, refurnishing, im-
provement, and to the extent not otherwise
provided for, heating and lighting, including
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S360 January 22, 2019
electric power and fixtures, of the official
residence of the Vice President; the hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:
Provided, That advances, repayments, or
transfers from this appropriation may be
made to any department or agency for ex-
penses of carrying out such activities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—EXECUTIVE OF-
FICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPRO-
PRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. From funds made available in this
Act under the headings ‘‘The White House’’,
‘‘Executive Residence at the White House’’,
‘‘White House Repair and Restoration’’,
‘‘Council of Economic Advisers’’, ‘‘National
Security Council and Homeland Security
Council’’, ‘‘Office of Administration’’, ‘‘Spe-
cial Assistance to the President’’, and ‘‘Offi-
cial Residence of the Vice President’’, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (or such other officer as the Presi-
dent may designate in writing), may, with
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 per-
cent of any such appropriation to any other
such appropriation, to be merged with and
available for the same time and for the same
purposes as the appropriation to which
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an
appropriation shall not be increased by more
than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided
further, That no amount shall be transferred
from ‘‘Special Assistance to the President’’
or ‘‘Official Residence of the Vice President’’
without the approval of the Vice President.
SEC. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2019, any
Executive order or Presidential memo-
randum issued or revoked by the President
shall be accompanied by a written statement
from the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget on the budgetary impact,
including costs, benefits, and revenues, of
such order or memorandum.
(b) Any such statement shall include—
(1) a narrative summary of the budgetary
impact of such order or memorandum on the
Federal Government;
(2) the impact on mandatory and discre-
tionary obligations and outlays as the result
of such order or memorandum, listed by Fed-
eral agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year
period beginning in fiscal year 2019; and
(3) the impact on revenues of the Federal
Government as the result of such order or
memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year period
beginning in fiscal year 2019.
(c) If an Executive order or Presidential
memorandum is issued during fiscal year
2019 due to a national emergency, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
may issue the statement required by sub-
section (a) not later than 15 days after the
date that such order or memorandum is
issued.
(d) The requirement for cost estimates for
Presidential memoranda shall only apply for
Presidential memoranda estimated to have a
regulatory cost in excess of $100,000,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Executive
Office of the President Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
TITLE III
THE JUDICIARY
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the operation of
the Supreme Court, as required by law, ex-
cluding care of the building and grounds, in-
cluding hire of passenger motor vehicles as
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to
exceed $10,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for miscellaneous
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice
may approve, $84,703,000, of which $1,500,000
shall remain available until expended.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief justice and asso-
ciate justices of the court.
CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS
For such expenditures as may be necessary
to enable the Architect of the Capitol to
carry out the duties imposed upon the Archi-
tect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,999,000, to
remain available until expended.
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FEDERAL CIRCUIT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees, and
for necessary expenses of the court, as au-
thorized by law, $32,016,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL
TRADE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees of
the court, services, and necessary expenses
of the court, as authorized by law, $18,882,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
COURTS OF APPEALS, DISTRICT COURTS, AND
OTHER JUDICIAL SERVICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries of judges of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, magistrate
judges, and all other officers and employees
of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise spe-
cifically provided for, necessary expenses of
the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair,
and cleaning of uniforms for Probation and
Pretrial Services Office staff, as authorized
by law, $5,144,383,000 (including the purchase
of firearms and ammunition); of which not to
exceed $27,817,000 shall remain available
until expended for space alteration projects
and for furniture and furnishings related to
new space alteration and construction
projects.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of circuit and district judges
(including judges of the territorial courts of
the United States), bankruptcy judges, and
justices and judges retired from office or
from regular active service.
In addition, for expenses of the United
States Court of Federal Claims associated
with processing cases under the National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public
Law 99–660), not to exceed $8,475,000, to be ap-
propriated from the Vaccine Injury Com-
pensation Trust Fund.
DEFENDER SERVICES
For the operation of Federal Defender or-
ganizations; the compensation and reim-
bursement of expenses of attorneys ap-
pointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C.
3006A and 3599, and for the compensation and
reimbursement of expenses of persons fur-
nishing investigative, expert, and other serv-
ices for such representations as authorized
by law; the compensation (in accordance
with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 3006A)
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to assist the court in criminal
cases where the defendant has waived rep-
resentation by counsel; the compensation
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to represent jurors in civil actions
for the protection of their employment, as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the com-
pensation and reimbursement of expenses of
attorneys appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1)
in connection with certain judicial civil for-
feiture proceedings; the compensation and
reimbursement of travel expenses of guard-
ians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C.
4100(b); and for necessary training and gen-
eral administrative expenses, $1,150,450,000 to
remain available until expended.
FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS
For fees and expenses of jurors as author-
ized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 1876; compensation
of jury commissioners as authorized by 28
U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of commis-
sioners appointed in condemnation cases
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix Rule
71.1(h)), $49,750,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the compensation
of land commissioners shall not exceed the
daily equivalent of the highest rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5332.
COURT SECURITY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, incident to the provision of protec-
tive guard services for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, and the procurement, in-
stallation, and maintenance of security sys-
tems and equipment for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, including building ingress-
egress control, inspection of mail and pack-
ages, directed security patrols, perimeter se-
curity, basic security services provided by
the Federal Protective Service, and other
similar activities as authorized by section
1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access
to Justice Act (Public Law 100–702),
$607,110,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended, to be
expended directly or transferred to the
United States Marshals Service, which shall
be responsible for administering the Judicial
Facility Security Program consistent with
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Di-
rector of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts and the Attorney Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES COURTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts as au-
thorized by law, including travel as author-
ized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger
motor vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b), advertising and rent in the District
of Columbia and elsewhere, $92,413,000, of
which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for
official reception and representation ex-
penses.
FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Ju-
dicial Center, as authorized by Public Law
90–219, $29,819,000; of which $1,800,000 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020,
to provide education and training to Federal
court personnel; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 is authorized for official reception and
representation expenses.
UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries and expenses necessary to
carry out the provisions of chapter 58 of title
28, United States Code, $18,953,000, of which
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official
reception and representation expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—THE JUDICIARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 301. Appropriations and authoriza-
tions made in this title which are available
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S361
January 22, 2019
for salaries and expenses shall be available
for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may
be transferred between such appropriations,
but no such appropriation, except ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Defender Services’’ and ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Fees of Jurors and Commis-
sioners’’, shall be increased by more than 10
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall not
be available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in section 608.
SEC. 303. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the salaries and expenses appro-
priation for ‘‘Courts of Appeals, District
Courts, and Other Judicial Services’’ shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses of the Judicial Conference of
the United States: Provided, That such avail-
able funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall
be administered by the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the
Judicial Conference.
SEC. 304. Section 3315(a) of title 40, United
States Code, shall be applied by substituting
‘‘Federal’’ for ‘‘executive’’ each place it ap-
pears.
SEC. 305. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561–
569, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the United States Marshals Service
shall provide, for such courthouses as its Di-
rector may designate in consultation with
the Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, for purposes of a
pilot program, the security services that 40
U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of
Homeland Security to provide, except for the
services specified in 40 U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E).
For building-specific security services at
these courthouses, the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts shall reimburse the United States
Marshals Service rather than the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
SEC. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial
Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–
650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the
matter following paragraph 12—
(1) in the second sentence (relating to the
District of Kansas), by striking ‘‘27 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘28 years and 6
months’’; and
(2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the
District of Hawaii), by striking ‘‘24 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’.
(b) Section 406 of the Transportation,
Treasury, Housing and Urban Development,
the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
2006 (Public Law 109–115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28
U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second
sentence (relating to the eastern District of
Missouri) by striking ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’ and inserting ‘‘26 years and 6
months’’.
(c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century De-
partment of Justice Appropriations Author-
ization Act (Public Law 107–273; 28 U.S.C. 133
note), is amended—
(1) in the first sentence by striking ‘‘16
years’’ and inserting ‘‘17 years’’;
(2) in the second sentence (relating to the
central District of California), by striking
‘‘15 years and 6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘16
years and 6 months’’; and
(3) in the third sentence (relating to the
western district of North Carolina), by strik-
ing ‘‘14 years’’ and inserting ‘‘15 years’’.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Judiciary
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE IV
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FEDERAL FUNDS
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION
SUPPORT
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia, to be deposited into a dedicated
account, for a nationwide program to be ad-
ministered by the Mayor, for District of Co-
lumbia resident tuition support, $40,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds, including any interest ac-
crued thereon, may be used on behalf of eli-
gible District of Columbia residents to pay
an amount based upon the difference be-
tween in-State and out-of-State tuition at
public institutions of higher education, or to
pay up to $2,500 each year at eligible private
institutions of higher education: Provided
further, That the awarding of such funds may
be prioritized on the basis of a resident’s aca-
demic merit, the income and need of eligible
students and such other factors as may be
authorized: Provided further, That the Dis-
trict of Columbia government shall maintain
a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition
Support Program that shall consist of the
Federal funds appropriated to the Program
in this Act and any subsequent appropria-
tions, any unobligated balances from prior
fiscal years, and any interest earned in this
or any fiscal year: Provided further, That the
account shall be under the control of the
District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer,
who shall use those funds solely for the pur-
poses of carrying out the Resident Tuition
Support Program: Provided further, That the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall
provide a quarterly financial report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate for these
funds showing, by object class, the expendi-
tures made and the purpose therefor.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING
AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE DISTRICT OF CO-
LUMBIA
For a Federal payment of necessary ex-
penses, as determined by the Mayor of the
District of Columbia in written consultation
with the elected county or city officials of
surrounding jurisdictions, $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, for the costs
of providing public safety at events related
to the presence of the National Capital in
the District of Columbia, including support
requested by the Director of the United
States Secret Service in carrying out protec-
tive duties under the direction of the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and for the
costs of providing support to respond to im-
mediate and specific terrorist threats or at-
tacks in the District of Columbia or sur-
rounding jurisdictions.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA COURTS
For salaries and expenses for the District
of Columbia Courts, $258,394,000 to be allo-
cated as follows: for the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, $14,594,000, of which not to
exceed $2,500 is for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; for the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, $124,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,500 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses; for the
District of Columbia Court System,
$74,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for
official reception and representation ex-
penses; and $45,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, for capital improve-
ments for District of Columbia courthouse
facilities: Provided, That funds made avail-
able for capital improvements shall be ex-
pended consistent with the District of Co-
lumbia Courts master plan study and facili-
ties condition assessment: Provided further,
That, in addition to the amounts appro-
priated herein, fees received by the District
of Columbia Courts for administering bar ex-
aminations and processing District of Co-
lumbia bar admissions may be retained and
credited to this appropriation, to remain
available until expended, for salaries and ex-
penses associated with such activities, not-
withstanding section 450 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.50): Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That 30 days after
providing written notice to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate, the District of Colum-
bia Courts may reallocate not more than
$9,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading among the items and entities funded
under this heading: Provided further, That
the Joint Committee on Judicial Adminis-
tration in the District of Columbia may, by
regulation, establish a program substan-
tially similar to the program set forth in
subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United
States Code, for employees of the District of
Columbia Courts.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments authorized under section 11–
2604 and section 11–2605, D.C. Official Code
(relating to representation provided under
the District of Columbia Criminal Justice
Act), payments for counsel appointed in pro-
ceedings in the Family Court of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia under
chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or
pursuant to contractual agreements to pro-
vide guardian ad litem representation, train-
ing, technical assistance, and such other
services as are necessary to improve the
quality of guardian ad litem representation,
payments for counsel appointed in adoption
proceedings under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C.
Official Code, and payments authorized
under section 21–2060, D.C. Official Code (re-
lating to services provided under the District
of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Pro-
ceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act
of 1986), $46,005,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That not more than
$20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided in
this account may be transferred to and
merged with funds made available under the
heading ‘‘Federal Payment to the District of
Columbia Courts,’’ to be available for the
same period and purposes as funds made
available under that heading for capital im-
provements to District of Columbia court-
house facilities: Provided further, That funds
provided under this heading shall be admin-
istered by the Joint Committee on Judicial
Administration in the District of Columbia:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, this appropriation
shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office
of Management and Budget and obligated
and expended in the same manner as funds
appropriated for expenses of other Federal
agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES
AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
Court Services and Offender Supervision
Agency for the District of Columbia, as au-
thorized by the National Capital Revitaliza-
tion and Self-Government Improvement Act
of 1997, $256,724,000, of which not to exceed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S362 January 22, 2019
$2,000 is for official reception and representa-
tion expenses related to Community Super-
vision and Pretrial Services Agency pro-
grams, and of which not to exceed $25,000 is
for dues and assessments relating to the im-
plementation of the Court Services and Of-
fender Supervision Agency Interstate Super-
vision Act of 2002: Provided, That, of the
funds appropriated under this heading,
$183,166,000 shall be for necessary expenses of
Community Supervision and Sex Offender
Registration, to include expenses relating to
the supervision of adults subject to protec-
tion orders or the provision of services for or
related to such persons, of which $5,919,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021 for costs associated with relocation
under a replacement lease for headquarters
offices, field offices, and related facilities:
Provided further, That, of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, $73,558,000 shall
be available to the Pretrial Services Agency,
of which $7,304,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021 for costs associated
with relocation under a replacement lease
for headquarters offices, field offices, and re-
lated facilities: Provided further, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading may be used for pro-
grammatic incentives for defendants to suc-
cessfully complete their terms of super-
vision.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
District of Columbia Public Defender Serv-
ice, as authorized by the National Capital
Revitalization and Self-Government Im-
provement Act of 1997, $45,858,000, of which
$4,471,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021 for costs associated with relo-
cation under a replacement lease for head-
quarters offices, field offices, and related fa-
cilities: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, all amounts under
this heading shall be apportioned quarterly
by the Office of Management and Budget and
obligated and expended in the same manner
as funds appropriated for salaries and ex-
penses of Federal agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
COORDINATING COUNCIL
For a Federal payment to the Criminal
Justice Coordinating Council, $2,150,000, to
remain available until expended, to support
initiatives related to the coordination of
Federal and local criminal justice resources
in the District of Columbia.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS
For a Federal payment, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, to the Commis-
sion on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure,
$295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination
Commission, $270,000.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
For a Federal payment for a school im-
provement program in the District of Colum-
bia, $52,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for payments authorized under the
Scholarships for Opportunity and Results
Act (division C of Public Law 112–10): Pro-
vided, That, to the extent that funds are
available for opportunity scholarships and
following the priorities included in section
3006 of such Act, the Secretary of Education
shall make scholarships available to stu-
dents eligible under section 3013(3) of such
Act (Public Law 112–10; 125 Stat. 211) includ-
ing students who were not offered a scholar-
ship during any previous school year: Pro-
vided further, That within funds provided for
opportunity scholarships up to $1,200,000
shall be for the activities specified in sec-
tions 3007(b) through 3007(d) of the Act and
up to $500,000 shall be for the activities speci-
fied in section 3009 of the Act.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia National Guard, $435,000, to remain
available until expended for the Major Gen-
eral David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Colum-
bia National Guard Retention and College
Access Program.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR TESTING AND
TREATMENT OF HIV/AIDS
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia for the testing of individuals for,
and the treatment of individuals with,
human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome in the District
of Columbia, $3,000,000.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS
Local funds are appropriated for the Dis-
trict of Columbia for the current fiscal year
out of the General Fund of the District of
Columbia (‘‘General Fund’’) for programs
and activities set forth under the heading
‘‘PART A—SUMMARY OF EXPENSES’’ and at the
rate set forth under such heading, as in-
cluded in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Re-
quest Act of 2018 submitted to Congress by
the District of Columbia, as amended as of
the date of enactment of this Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, except as provided in section 450A of the
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section
1–204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and
817 of the Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs.
47–369.01 and 47–369.02, D.C. Official Code),
and provisions of this Act, the total amount
appropriated in this Act for operating ex-
penses for the District of Columbia for fiscal
year 2019 under this heading shall not exceed
the estimates included in the Fiscal Year
2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 submitted to
Congress by the District of Columbia, as
amended as of the date of enactment of this
Act or the sum of the total revenues of the
District of Columbia for such fiscal year:
Provided further, That the amount appro-
priated may be increased by proceeds of one-
time transactions, which are expended for
emergency or unanticipated operating or
capital needs: Provided further, That such in-
creases shall be approved by enactment of
local District law and shall comply with all
reserve requirements contained in the Dis-
trict of Columbia Home Rule Act: Provided
further, That the Chief Financial Officer of
the District of Columbia shall take such
steps as are necessary to assure that the Dis-
trict of Columbia meets these requirements,
including the apportioning by the Chief Fi-
nancial Officer of the appropriations and
funds made available to the District during
fiscal year 2019, except that the Chief Finan-
cial Officer may not reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority,
$8,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to continue implementation of the
Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:
Provided, That the District of Columbia
Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100
percent match for this payment.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘District of
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE V
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED
STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States, author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, of
which not to exceed $1,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act
(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase
and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the
rental of space (to include multiple year
leases), in the District of Columbia and else-
where, $268,000,000, including not to exceed
$3,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for
the expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials, of
which not less than $50,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, shall be
for the purchase of information technology
and of which not less than $3,000,000 shall be
for expenses of the Office of the Inspector
General: Provided, That notwithstanding the
limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, amounts pro-
vided under this heading are available for
the liquidation of obligations equal to cur-
rent year payments on leases entered into
prior to the date of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That for the purpose of re-
cording and liquidating any lease obligations
that should have been recorded and liq-
uidated against accounts closed pursuant to
31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the pre-
ceding proviso, such amounts shall be trans-
ferred to and recorded in a no-year account
in the Treasury, which has been established
for the sole purpose of recording adjustments
for and liquidating such unpaid obligations.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles, services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for in-
dividuals not to exceed the per diem rate
equivalent to the maximum rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal
awards to recognize non-Federal officials’
contributions to Commission activities, and
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $127,000,000, of
which $800,000 shall remain available until
expended to carry out the program, includ-
ing administrative costs, required by section
1405 of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and
Spa Safety Act (Public Law 110–140; 15 U.S.C.
8004).
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—CONSUMER
PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SEC. 501. During fiscal year 2019, none of
the amounts made available by this Act may
be used to finalize or implement the Safety
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehi-
cles published by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in the Federal Register
on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964)
until after—
(1) the National Academy of Sciences, in
consultation with the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration and the De-
partment of Defense, completes a study to
determine—
(A) the technical validity of the lateral
stability and vehicle handling requirements
proposed by such standard for purposes of re-
ducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway
Vehicle (referred to in this section as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S363
January 22, 2019
‘‘ROV’’) rollovers in the off-road environ-
ment, including the repeatability and repro-
ducibility of testing for compliance with
such requirements;
(B) the number of ROV rollovers that
would be prevented if the proposed require-
ments were adopted;
(C) whether there is a technical basis for
the proposal to provide information on a
point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV’s rollover
resistance on a progressive scale; and
(D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used
by the United States military if the proposed
requirements were adopted; and
(2) a report containing the results of the
study completed under paragraph (1) is deliv-
ered to—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–252), $9,200,000, of which $1,250,000 shall be
transferred to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology for election re-
form activities authorized under the Help
America Vote Act of 2002.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Communications Commission, as authorized
by law, including uniforms and allowances
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902;
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses; purchase and hire
of motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$339,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $339,000,000 of offset-
ting collections shall be assessed and col-
lected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the
Communications Act of 1934, shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses and
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation estimated at $0: Provided fur-
ther, That any offsetting collections received
in excess of $339,000,000 in fiscal year 2019
shall not be available for obligation: Provided
further, That remaining offsetting collec-
tions from prior years collected in excess of
the amount specified for collection in each
such year and otherwise becoming available
on October 1, 2018, shall not be available for
obligation: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from
the use of a competitive bidding system that
may be retained and made available for obli-
gation shall not exceed $130,284,000 for fiscal
year 2019: Provided further, That, of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $11,064,000 shall be for the salaries
and expenses of the Office of Inspector Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SEC. 510. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change its rules or regulations for universal
service support payments to implement the
February 27, 2004 recommendations of the
Federal-State Joint Board on Universal
Service regarding single connection or pri-
mary line restrictions on universal service
support payments.
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit In-
surance Fund or, only when appropriate, the
FSLIC Resolution Fund.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which not to exceed
$5,000 shall be available for reception and
representation expenses.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Federal Labor Relations Author-
ity, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Num-
bered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978, including services authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts
and consultants, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and including official reception and
representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500)
and rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, $26,200,000:
Provided, That public members of the Fed-
eral Service Impasses Panel may be paid
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of sub-
sistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703)
for persons employed intermittently in the
Government service, and compensation as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds
received from fees charged to non-Federal
participants at labor-management relations
conferences shall be credited to and merged
with this account, to be available without
further appropriation for the costs of car-
rying out these conferences.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Trade Commission, including uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
5901–5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and
not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $309,700,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available
for use to contract with a person or persons
for collection services in accordance with
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, not to exceed $136,000,000 of offsetting
collections derived from fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection, shall be retained and used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, not to exceed
$17,000,000 in offsetting collections derived
from fees sufficient to implement and en-
force the Telemarketing Sales Rule, promul-
gated under the Telemarketing and Con-
sumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15
U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to this
account, and be retained and used for nec-
essary expenses in this appropriation: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as such offsetting collections are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2019, so as to result
in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from
the general fund estimated at not more than
$156,700,000: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available to the Federal Trade
Commission may be used to implement sub-
section (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Amounts in the Fund, including revenues
and collections deposited into the Fund,
shall be available for necessary expenses of
real property management and related ac-
tivities not otherwise provided for, including
operation, maintenance, and protection of
federally owned and leased buildings; rental
of buildings in the District of Columbia; res-
toration of leased premises; moving govern-
mental agencies (including space adjust-
ments and telecommunications relocation
expenses) in connection with the assignment,
allocation, and transfer of space; contractual
services incident to cleaning or servicing
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration
of federally owned buildings, including
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances;
care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance,
preservation, demolition, and equipment; ac-
quisition of buildings and sites by purchase,
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by
law; acquisition of options to purchase build-
ings and sites; conversion and extension of
federally owned buildings; preliminary plan-
ning and design of projects by contract or
otherwise; construction of new buildings (in-
cluding equipment for such buildings); and
payment of principal, interest, and any other
obligations for public buildings acquired by
installment purchase and purchase contract;
in the aggregate amount of $9,285,082,000, of
which—
(1) $958,900,000 shall remain available until
expended for construction and acquisition
(including funds for sites and expenses, and
associated design and construction services)
as follows:
(A) $767,900,000 shall be for the Department
of Transportation Lease Purchase Option,
Washington, District of Columbia;
(B) $100,000,000 shall be for the DHS Con-
solidation at St. Elizabeths, Washington,
District of Columbia;
(C) $91,000,000 shall be for the Calexico
West Land Port of Entry, Calexico, Cali-
fornia:
Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of
costs on new construction and acquisition
projects may be exceeded to the extent that
savings are effected in other such projects,
but not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts
included in a transmitted prospectus, if re-
quired, unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount;
(2) $663,219,000 shall remain available until
expended for repairs and alterations, includ-
ing associated design and construction serv-
ices, of which—
(A) $276,837,000 is for Major Repairs and Al-
terations;
(B) $356,382,000 is for Basic Repairs and Al-
terations; and
(C) $30,000,000 is for Special Emphasis Pro-
grams for Fire and Life Safety:
Provided, That funds made available in this
or any previous Act in the Federal Buildings
Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for
prospectus projects, be limited to the
amount identified for each project, except
each project in this or any previous Act may
be increased by an amount not to exceed 10
percent unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount: Provided further, That addi-
tional projects for which prospectuses have
been fully approved may be funded under
this category only if advance approval is ob-
tained from the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That the amounts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S364 January 22, 2019
provided in this or any prior Act for ‘‘Re-
pairs and Alterations’’ may be used to fund
costs associated with implementing security
improvements to buildings necessary to
meet the minimum standards for security in
accordance with current law and in compli-
ance with the reprogramming guidelines of
the appropriate Committees of the House
and Senate: Provided further, That the dif-
ference between the funds appropriated and
expended on any projects in this or any prior
Act, under the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alter-
ations’’, may be transferred to Basic Repairs
and Alterations or used to fund authorized
increases in prospectus projects: Provided
further, That the amount provided in this or
any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alter-
ations may be used to pay claims against the
Government arising from any projects under
the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alterations’’ or
used to fund authorized increases in pro-
spectus projects;
(3) $5,418,845,000 for rental of space to re-
main available until expended; and
(4) $2,244,118,000 for building operations to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That the total amount of funds made avail-
able from this Fund to the General Services
Administration shall not be available for ex-
penses of any construction, repair, alteration
and acquisition project for which a pro-
spectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has
not been approved, except that necessary
funds may be expended for each project for
required expenses for the development of a
proposed prospectus: Provided further, That
funds available in the Federal Buildings
Fund may be expended for emergency repairs
when advance approval is obtained from the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts necessary to provide re-
imbursable special services to other agencies
under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to pro-
vide such reimbursable fencing, lighting,
guard booths, and other facilities on private
or other property not in Government owner-
ship or control as may be appropriate to en-
able the United States Secret Service to per-
form its protective functions pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such rev-
enues and collections: Provided further, That
revenues and collections and any other sums
accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019,
excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C.
592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new
obligational authority authorized for Real
Property Activities of the Federal Buildings
Fund in this Act shall remain in the Fund
and shall not be available for expenditure ex-
cept as authorized in appropriations Acts.
GENERAL ACTIVITIES
GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide pol-
icy and evaluation activities associated with
the management of real and personal prop-
erty assets and certain administrative serv-
ices; Government-wide policy support re-
sponsibilities relating to acquisition, travel,
motor vehicles, information technology
management, and related technology activi-
ties; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; $60,000,000.
OPERATING EXPENSES
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide ac-
tivities associated with utilization and dona-
tion of surplus personal property; disposal of
real property; agency-wide policy direction,
management, and communications; and serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000,
of which $26,890,000 is for Real and Personal
Property Management and Disposal;
$22,550,000 is for the Office of the Adminis-
trator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
CIVILIAN BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for the activities associ-
ated with the Civilian Board of Contract Ap-
peals, $9,301,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General and service authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000: Provided, That not to
exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment
for information and detection of fraud
against the Government, including payment
for recovery of stolen Government property:
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500
shall be available for awards to employees of
other Federal agencies and private citizens
in recognition of efforts and initiatives re-
sulting in enhanced Office of Inspector Gen-
eral effectiveness.
ALLOWANCES AND OFFICE STAFF FOR FORMER
PRESIDENTS
For carrying out the provisions of the Act
of August 25, 1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and
Public Law 95–138, $4,796,000.
FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Products and Programs, including services
authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604;
and for necessary expenses in support of
interagency projects that enable the Federal
Government to enhance its ability to con-
duct activities electronically, through the
development and implementation of innova-
tive uses of information technology;
$55,000,000, to be deposited into the Federal
Citizen Services Fund: Provided, That the
previous amount may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies to carry out the purpose of the
Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided fur-
ther, That the appropriations, revenues, re-
imbursements, and collections deposited into
the Fund shall be available until expended
for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen
Services and other activities that enable the
Federal Government to enhance its ability
to conduct activities electronically in the
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:
Provided further, That appropriations, reve-
nues, reimbursements, and collections accru-
ing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019 in ex-
cess of such amount shall remain in the
Fund and shall not be available for expendi-
ture except as authorized in appropriations
Acts: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thorities provided herein shall be in addition
to any other transfer authority provided in
this Act.
TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND
For the Technology Modernization Fund,
$25,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for technology-related moderniza-
tion activities.
ASSET PROCEEDS AND SPACE MANAGEMENT
FUND
For carrying out the purposes of the Fed-
eral Assets Sale and Transfer Act of 2016
(Public Law 114–287), $25,000,000, to be depos-
ited into the Asset Proceeds and Space Man-
agement Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW IMPROVEMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Environ-
mental Review Improvement Fund estab-
lished pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m–8(d),
$6,070,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—GENERAL
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 520. Funds available to the General
Services Administration shall be available
for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
SEC. 521. Funds in the Federal Buildings
Fund made available for fiscal year 2019 for
Federal Buildings Fund activities may be
transferred between such activities only to
the extent necessary to meet program re-
quirements: Provided, That any proposed
transfers shall be approved in advance by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 522. Except as otherwise provided in
this title, funds made available by this Act
shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2020
request for United States Courthouse con-
struction only if the request: (1) meets the
design guide standards for construction as
established and approved by the General
Services Administration, the Judicial Con-
ference of the United States, and the Office
of Management and Budget; (2) reflects the
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the
United States as set out in its approved
Courthouse Project Priorities plan; and (3)
includes a standardized courtroom utiliza-
tion study of each facility to be constructed,
replaced, or expanded.
SEC. 523. None of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to increase the amount of
occupiable square feet, provide cleaning
services, security enhancements, or any
other service usually provided through the
Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that
does not pay the rate per square foot assess-
ment for space and services as determined by
the General Services Administration in con-
sideration of the Public Buildings Amend-
ments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92–313).
SEC. 524. From funds made available under
the heading Federal Buildings Fund, Limita-
tions on Availability of Revenue, claims
against the Government of less than $250,000
arising from direct construction projects and
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated
from savings effected in other construction
projects with prior notification to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 525. In any case in which the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution
granting lease authority pursuant to a pro-
spectus transmitted to Congress by the Ad-
ministrator of the General Services Adminis-
tration under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Adminis-
trator shall ensure that the delineated area
of procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus for all lease
agreements, except that, if the Adminis-
trator determines that the delineated area of
the procurement should not be identical to
the delineated area included in the pro-
spectus, the Administrator shall provide an
explanatory statement to each of such com-
mittees and the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in the resolution.
SEC. 526. With respect to each project fund-
ed under the heading ‘‘Major Repairs and Al-
terations’’ or ‘‘Judiciary Capital Security
Program’’, and with respect to E–Govern-
ment projects funded under the heading
‘‘Federal Citizen Services Fund’’, the Admin-
istrator of General Services shall submit a
spending plan and explanation for each
project to be undertaken to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 527. The Administrator of General
Services shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
House of Representatives not later than 30
days following implementation of the initia-
tive established under (c)(2) of Section 846 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 41 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S365
January 22, 2019
1901 note) containing a market analysis and
an implementation strategy related to the
requirements under subparagraph (h) of Sec-
tion 846. The report shall address strategies
and processes for proper government safe-
guards to data management and privacy for
incorporation into the implementation of
Section 846 to ensure a competitive environ-
ment.
HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For payment to the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund, estab-
lished by section 10 of Public Law 93–642,
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Merit Systems Protection Board
pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2
of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978,
and the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989
(5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where, hire of passenger motor vehicles, di-
rect procurement of survey printing, and not
to exceed $2,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $44,490,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, and in ad-
dition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, for admin-
istrative expenses to adjudicate retirement
appeals to be transferred from the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund in
amounts determined by the Merit Systems
Protection Board.
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
FOUNDATION
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment to the Morris K. Udall and
Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, pursuant to
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall
Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.),
$1,875,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which, notwithstanding sections 8
and 9 of such Act: (1) up to $50,000 shall be
used to conduct financial audits pursuant to
the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–289); and (2) up to $1,000,000
shall be available to carry out the activities
authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102–
259 and section 817(a) of Public Law 106–568
(20 U.S.C. 5604(7)): Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading
$200,000 shall be transferred to the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of the
Interior, to remain available until expended,
for audits and investigations of the Morris K.
Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, con-
sistent with the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND
For payment to the Environmental Dis-
pute Resolution Fund to carry out activities
authorized in the Environmental Policy and
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in connection with
the administration of the National Archives
and Records Administration and archived
Federal records and related activities, as
provided by law, and for expenses necessary
for the review and declassification of docu-
ments, the activities of the Public Interest
Declassification Board, the operations and
maintenance of the electronic records ar-
chives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles,
and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning,
$373,000,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Reform Act of
2008, Public Law 110–409, 122 Stat. 4302–16
(2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978
(5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,823,000.
REPAIRS AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of archives facilities, and to provide
adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND
RECORDS COMMISSION
GRANTS PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for allocations and
grants for historical publications and records
as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN
FUND
For the Community Development Revolv-
ing Loan Fund program as authorized by 42
U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020, for tech-
nical assistance to low-income designated
credit unions.
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Government Ethics pur-
suant to the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge
Act of 2012, including services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere,
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to
exceed $1,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $17,019,000.
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Re-
form Act of 1978, including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examina-
tions performed for veterans by private phy-
sicians on a fee basis; rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not
to exceed $2,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; advances for reim-
bursements to applicable funds of OPM and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation for ex-
penses incurred under Executive Order No.
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and pay-
ment of per diem and/or subsistence allow-
ances to employees where Voting Rights Act
activities require an employee to remain
overnight at his or her post of duty,
$132,172,000: Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading,
not to exceed $14,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, for information
technology infrastructure modernization and
Trust Fund Federal Financial System migra-
tion or modernization, and shall be in addi-
tion to funds otherwise made available for
such purposes: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading, $639,018 may be made available for
strengthening the capacity and capabilities
of the acquisition workforce (as defined by
the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), in-
cluding the recruitment, hiring, training,
and retention of such workforce and infor-
mation technology in support of acquisition
workforce effectiveness or for management
solutions to improve acquisition manage-
ment; and in addition $133,483,000 for admin-
istrative expenses, to be transferred from the
appropriate trust funds of OPM without re-
gard to other statutes, including direct pro-
curement of printed materials, for the retire-
ment and insurance programs: Provided fur-
ther, That the provisions of this appropria-
tion shall not affect the authority to use ap-
plicable trust funds as provided by sections
8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and
9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code:
Provided further, That no part of this appro-
priation shall be available for salaries and
expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of
OPM established pursuant to Executive
Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any suc-
cessor unit of like purpose: Provided further,
That the President’s Commission on White
House Fellows, established by Executive
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, dur-
ing fiscal year 2019, accept donations of
money, property, and personal services: Pro-
vided further, That such donations, including
those from prior years, may be used for the
development of publicity materials to pro-
vide information about the White House Fel-
lows, except that no such donations shall be
accepted for travel or reimbursement of
travel expenses, or for the salaries of em-
ployees of such Commission.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, hire of passenger motor vehicles,
$5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed
$25,265,000 for administrative expenses to
audit, investigate, and provide other over-
sight of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment’s retirement and insurance programs,
to be transferred from the appropriate trust
funds of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, as determined by the Inspector Gen-
eral: Provided, That the Inspector General is
authorized to rent conference rooms in the
District of Columbia and elsewhere.
OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Special Counsel pursu-
ant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of
1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–454), the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101–12) as
amended by Public Law 107–304, the Whistle-
blower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–199), and the Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–353), in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, payment of fees and expenses for wit-
nesses, rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; $26,535,000.
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Postal Regu-
latory Commission in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Postal Accountability and En-
hancement Act (Public Law 109–435),
$15,200,000, to be derived by transfer from the
Postal Service Fund and expended as author-
ized by section 603(a) of such Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S366 January 22, 2019
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Privacy and
Civil Liberties Oversight Board, as author-
ized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Re-
form and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, including serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental
of space (to include multiple year leases) in
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and
not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and
representation expenses, $1,674,902,000, to re-
main available until expended; of which not
less than $15,206,000 shall be for the Office of
Inspector General; of which not to exceed
$75,000 shall be available for a permanent
secretariat for the International Organiza-
tion of Securities Commissions; and of which
not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for
expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials,
members of their delegations and staffs to
exchange views concerning securities mat-
ters, such expenses to include necessary lo-
gistic and administrative expenses and the
expenses of Commission staff and foreign
invitees in attendance including: (1) inci-
dental expenses such as meals; (2) travel and
transportation; and (3) related lodging or
subsistence; and of which not less than
$75,081,000 shall be for the Division of Eco-
nomic and Risk Analysis.
In addition to the foregoing appropriation,
for costs associated with relocation under a
replacement lease for the Commission’s New
York regional office facilities, not to exceed
$37,189,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That for purposes of calcu-
lating the fee rate under section 31(j) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2019, all amounts ap-
propriated under this heading shall be
deemed to be the regular appropriation to
the Commission for fiscal year 2019: Provided
further, That fees and charges authorized by
section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this
account as offsetting collections: Provided
further, That not to exceed $1,674,902,000 of
such offsetting collections shall be available
until expended for necessary expenses of this
account and not to exceed $37,189,000 of such
offsetting collections shall be available until
expended for costs under this heading associ-
ated with relocation under a replacement
lease for the Commission’s New York re-
gional office facilities: Provided further, That
the total amount appropriated under this
heading from the general fund for fiscal year
2019 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees
are received so as to result in a final total
fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at not more than $0: Pro-
vided further, That if any amount of the ap-
propriation for costs associated with reloca-
tion under a replacement lease for the Com-
mission’s New York regional office facilities
is subsequently de-obligated by the Commis-
sion, such amount that was derived from the
general fund shall be returned to the general
fund, and such amounts that were derived
from fees or assessments collected for such
purpose shall be paid to each national securi-
ties exchange and national securities asso-
ciation, respectively, in proportion to any
fees or assessments paid by such national se-
curities exchange or national securities asso-
ciation under section 31 of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal
year 2019.
SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Selective
Service System, including expenses of at-
tendance at meetings and of training for uni-
formed personnel assigned to the Selective
Service System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
4101–4118 for civilian employees; hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses;
$26,000,000: Provided, That during the current
fiscal year, the President may exempt this
appropriation from the provisions of 31
U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems
such action to be necessary in the interest of
national defense: Provided further, That none
of the funds appropriated by this Act may be
expended for or in connection with the in-
duction of any person into the Armed Forces
of the United States.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, of the Small Business Administra-
tion, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of
title 31, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $3,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $267,500,000, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for
examinations, reviews, and other lender
oversight activities: Provided, That the Ad-
ministrator is authorized to charge fees to
cover the cost of publications developed by
the Small Business Administration, and cer-
tain loan program activities, including fees
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Busi-
ness Act: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received
from all such activities shall be credited to
this account, to remain available until ex-
pended, for carrying out these purposes with-
out further appropriations: Provided further,
That the Small Business Administration
may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each
in accordance with section 132(a) of division
K of Public Law 108–447, during fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That $6,100,000 shall be
available for the Loan Modernization and
Accounting System, to be available until
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
$3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State
Technology Partnership Program under sec-
tion 34 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
657d).
ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of programs sup-
porting entrepreneurial and small business
development, $247,700,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020: Provided, That
$131,000,000 shall be available to fund grants
for performance in fiscal year 2019 or fiscal
year 2020 as authorized by section 21 of the
Small Business Act: Provided further, That
$31,000,000 shall be for marketing, manage-
ment, and technical assistance under section
7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make
microloans under the microloan program:
Provided further, That $18,000,000 shall be
available for grants to States to carry out
export programs that assist small business
concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$21,900,000.
OFFICE OF ADVOCACY
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
vocacy in carrying out the provisions of title
II of Public Law 94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.)
and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That subject to section
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
during fiscal year 2019 commitments to guar-
antee loans under section 503 of the Small
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not ex-
ceed $7,500,000,000: Provided further, That dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 commitments for general
business loans authorized under section 7(a)
of the Small Business Act shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 for a combination of amor-
tizing term loans and the aggregated max-
imum line of credit provided by revolving
loans: Provided further, That during fiscal
year 2019 commitments for loans authorized
under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of
The Small Business Investment Act of 1958
(15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during
fiscal year 2019 commitments to guarantee
loans for debentures under section 303(b) of
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
shall not exceed $4,000,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That during fiscal year 2019, guarantees
of trust certificates authorized by section
5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not ex-
ceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In
addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, $155,150,000, which may be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriations
for Salaries and Expenses.
DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the direct loan program authorized by sec-
tion 7(b) of the Small Business Act,
$10,000,000, to be available until expended, of
which $1,000,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General of the Small Business Administra-
tion for audits and reviews of disaster loans
and the disaster loan programs and shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priations for the Office of Inspector General;
and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect admin-
istrative expenses for the direct loan pro-
gram, which may be transferred to and
merged with the appropriations for Salaries
and Expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION AND TRANSFER OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 530. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Small Business Adminis-
tration in this Act may be transferred be-
tween such appropriations, but no such ap-
propriation shall be increased by more than
10 percent by any such transfers: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
SEC. 531. Of the unobligated balances from
prior year appropriations available under the
‘‘Business Loans Program Account’’ heading
for the Certified Development Company Pro-
gram, $50,000,000 are hereby permanently re-
scinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded under this section from amounts
that were designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to a con-
current resolution on the budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S367
January 22, 2019
SEC. 532. Section 12085 of Public Law 110–
246 is repealed.
SEC. 533. Not to exceed 3 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act for
the Small Business Administration under
the headings ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ and
‘‘Business Loans Program Account’’ may be
transferred to the Administration’s informa-
tion technology system modernization and
working capital fund (IT WCF), as authorized
by Section 1077(b)(1) of title X of division A
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2018, for the purposes speci-
fied in section 1077(b)(3) of such Act, upon
the advance approval of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate: Provided, That amounts
transferred to the IT WCF under this section
shall remain available for obligation through
September 30, 2022.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND
For payment to the Postal Service Fund
for revenue forgone on free and reduced rate
mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 2401 of title 39, United States Code,
$55,235,000: Provided, That mail for overseas
voting and mail for the blind shall continue
to be free: Provided further, That 6-day deliv-
ery and rural delivery of mail shall continue
at not less than the 1983 level: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds made available
to the Postal Service by this Act shall be
used to implement any rule, regulation, or
policy of charging any officer or employee of
any State or local child support enforcement
agency, or any individual participating in a
State or local program of child support en-
forcement, a fee for information requested or
provided concerning an address of a postal
customer: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this Act shall be used to
consolidate or close small rural and other
small post offices.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from
the Postal Service Fund and expended as au-
thorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal Ac-
countability and Enhancement Act (Public
Law 109–435).
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, including contract
reporting and other services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,515,000, of which $500,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That travel expenses of the judges
shall be paid upon the written certificate of
the judge.
TITLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 601. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 602. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 603. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
SEC. 604. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 605. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be available for any activ-
ity or for paying the salary of any Govern-
ment employee where funding an activity or
paying a salary to a Government employee
would result in a decision, determination,
rule, regulation, or policy that would pro-
hibit the enforcement of section 307 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
SEC. 606. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with chap-
ter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 607. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating chapter 83 of
title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 608. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates a
new program; (2) eliminates a program,
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or
personnel for any program, project, or activ-
ity for which funds have been denied or re-
stricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use
funds directed for a specific activity by the
Committee on Appropriations of either the
House of Representatives or the Senate for a
different purpose; (5) augments existing pro-
grams, projects, or activities in excess of
$5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; (6)
reduces existing programs, projects, or ac-
tivities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever
is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices,
programs, or activities unless prior approval
is received from the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That prior to any
significant reorganization, restructuring, re-
location, or closing of offices, programs, or
activities, each agency or entity funded in
this Act shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate: Provided further, That
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, each agency funded by
this Act shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate to establish
the baseline for application of reprogram-
ming and transfer authorities for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That at a min-
imum the report shall include: (1) a table for
each appropriation with a separate column
to display the President’s budget request, ad-
justments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delin-
eation in the table for each appropriation
both by object class and program, project,
and activity as detailed in the budget appen-
dix for the respective appropriation; and (3)
an identification of items of special congres-
sional interest: Provided further, That the
amount appropriated or limited for salaries
and expenses for an agency shall be reduced
by $100,000 per day for each day after the re-
quired date that the report has not been sub-
mitted to the Congress.
SEC. 609. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate for approval prior to the expendi-
ture of such funds: Provided further, That
these requests shall be made in compliance
with reprogramming guidelines.
SEC. 610. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used by the Execu-
tive Office of the President to request—
(1) any official background investigation
report on any individual from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; or
(2) a determination with respect to the
treatment of an organization as described in
section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and exempt from taxation under sec-
tion 501(a) of such Code from the Department
of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue
Service.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply—
(1) in the case of an official background in-
vestigation report, if such individual has
given express written consent for such re-
quest not more than 6 months prior to the
date of such request and during the same
presidential administration; or
(2) if such request is required due to ex-
traordinary circumstances involving na-
tional security.
SEC. 611. The cost accounting standards
promulgated under chapter 15 of title 41,
United States Code shall not apply with re-
spect to a contract under the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program established
under chapter 89 of title 5, United States
Code.
SEC. 612. For the purpose of resolving liti-
gation and implementing any settlement
agreements regarding the nonforeign area
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office
of Personnel Management may accept and
utilize (without regard to any restriction on
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an
Appropriations Act) funds made available to
the Office of Personnel Management pursu-
ant to court approval.
SEC. 613. No funds appropriated by this Act
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or
the administrative expenses in connection
with any health plan under the Federal em-
ployees health benefits program which pro-
vides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
SEC. 614. The provision of section 613 shall
not apply where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus were carried to
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act
of rape or incest.
SEC. 615. In order to promote Government
access to commercial information tech-
nology, the restriction on purchasing non-
domestic articles, materials, and supplies set
forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States
Code (popularly known as the Buy American
Act), shall not apply to the acquisition by
the Federal Government of information
technology (as defined in section 11101 of
title 40, United States Code), that is a com-
mercial item (as defined in section 103 of
title 41, United States Code).
SEC. 616. Notwithstanding section 1353 of
title 31, United States Code, no officer or em-
ployee of any regulatory agency or commis-
sion funded by this Act may accept on behalf
of that agency, nor may such agency or com-
mission accept, payment or reimbursement
from a non-Federal entity for travel, subsist-
ence, or related expenses for the purpose of
enabling an officer or employee to attend
and participate in any meeting or similar
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S368 January 22, 2019
function relating to the official duties of the
officer or employee when the entity offering
payment or reimbursement is a person or en-
tity subject to regulation by such agency or
commission, or represents a person or entity
subject to regulation by such agency or com-
mission, unless the person or entity is an or-
ganization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code.
SEC. 617. Notwithstanding section 708 of
this Act, funds made available to the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission by this
or any other Act may be used for the inter-
agency funding and sponsorship of a joint ad-
visory committee to advise on emerging reg-
ulatory issues.
SEC. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, an Executive agency cov-
ered by this Act otherwise authorized to
enter into contracts for either leases or the
construction or alteration of real property
for office, meeting, storage, or other space
must consult with the General Services Ad-
ministration before issuing a solicitation for
offers of new leases or construction con-
tracts, and in the case of succeeding leases,
before entering into negotiations with the
current lessor.
(2) Any such agency with authority to
enter into an emergency lease may do so
during any period declared by the President
to require emergency leasing authority with
respect to such agency.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘Executive agency covered by this Act’’
means any Executive agency provided funds
by this Act, but does not include the General
Services Administration or the United
States Postal Service.
SEC. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the
following activities the amounts required
under current law:
(1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C.
102).
(2) Payments to—
(A) the Judicial Officers’ Retirement Fund
(28 U.S.C. 377(o));
(B) the Judicial Survivors’ Annuities Fund
(28 U.S.C. 376(c)); and
(C) the United States Court of Federal
Claims Judges’ Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C.
178(l)).
(3) Payment of Government contribu-
tions—
(A) with respect to the health benefits of
retired employees, as authorized by chapter
89 of title 5, United States Code, and the Re-
tired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act
(74 Stat. 849); and
(B) with respect to the life insurance bene-
fits for employees retiring after December
31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
(4) Payment to finance the unfunded liabil-
ity of new and increased annuity benefits
under the Civil Service Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
(5) Payment of annuities authorized to be
paid from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund by statutory provisions
other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to exempt any amount appropriated
by this section from any otherwise applica-
ble limitation on the use of funds contained
in this Act.
SEC. 620. In addition to amounts made
available in prior fiscal years, the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board
(Board) shall have authority to obligate
funds for the scholarship program estab-
lished by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–204) in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the amount
of funds collected by the Board between Jan-
uary 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, including
accrued interest, as a result of the assess-
ment of monetary penalties. Funds available
for obligation in fiscal year 2019 shall remain
available until expended. Beginning in fiscal
year 2020 and for each fiscal year thereafter,
monetary penalties collected pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 7215 shall be deposited in the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board ac-
count as discretionary offsetting receipts.
SEC. 621. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Federal Trade
Commission to complete the draft report en-
titled ‘‘Interagency Working Group on Food
Marketed to Children: Preliminary Proposed
Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-
Regulatory Efforts’’ unless the Interagency
Working Group on Food Marketed to Chil-
dren complies with Executive Order No.
13563.
SEC. 622. None of the funds in this Act may
be used for the Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management to award a contract,
enter an extension of, or exercise an option
on a contract to a contractor conducting the
final quality review processes for back-
ground investigation fieldwork services or
background investigation support services
that, as of the date of the award of the con-
tract, are being conducted by that con-
tractor.
SEC. 623. (a) The head of each executive
branch agency funded by this Act shall en-
sure that the Chief Information Officer of
the agency has the authority to participate
in decisions regarding the budget planning
process related to information technology.
(b) Amounts appropriated for any execu-
tive branch agency funded by this Act that
are available for information technology
shall be allocated within the agency, con-
sistent with the provisions of appropriations
Acts and budget guidelines and recommenda-
tions from the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in such manner as
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Infor-
mation Officer of the agency in consultation
with the Chief Financial Officer of the agen-
cy and budget officials.
SEC. 624. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States
Code.
SEC. 625. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by a governmental
entity to require the disclosure by a provider
of electronic communication service to the
public or remote computing service of the
contents of a wire or electronic communica-
tion that is in electronic storage with the
provider (as such terms are defined in sec-
tions 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States
Code) in a manner that violates the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
SEC. 626. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change the rules or regulations of the Com-
mission for universal service high-cost sup-
port for competitive eligible telecommuni-
cations carriers in a way that is inconsistent
with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as in effect on July 15, 2015: Provided,
That this section shall not prohibit the Com-
mission from considering, developing, or
adopting other support mechanisms as an al-
ternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
SEC. 627. No funds provided in this Act
shall be used to deny an Inspector General
funded under this Act timely access to any
records, documents, or other materials avail-
able to the department or agency over which
that Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978, or to
prevent or impede that Inspector General’s
access to such records, documents, or other
materials, under any provision of law, except
a provision of law that expressly refers to
the Inspector General and expressly limits
the Inspector General’s right of access. A de-
partment or agency covered by this section
shall provide its Inspector General with ac-
cess to all such records, documents, and
other materials in a timely manner. Each In-
spector General shall ensure compliance
with statutory limitations on disclosure rel-
evant to the information provided by the es-
tablishment over which that Inspector Gen-
eral has responsibilities under the Inspector
General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 5
calendar days any failures to comply with
this requirement.
SEC. 628. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication ac-
tivities, or other law enforcement- or victim
assistance-related activity.
SEC. 629. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used by the Securities
and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue,
or implement any rule, regulation, or order
regarding the disclosure of political con-
tributions, contributions to tax exempt orga-
nizations, or dues paid to trade associations.
SEC. 630. None of the funds appropriated or
other-wise made available by this Act may
be used to pay award or incentive fees for
contractors whose performance has been
judged to be below satisfactory, behind
schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet
the basic requirements of a contract, unless
the Agency determines that any such devi-
ations are due to unforeseeable events, gov-
ernment-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 631. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
travel and conference activities that result
in a total cost to an Executive branch de-
partment, agency, board or commission of
more than $500,000 at any single conference
unless the agency or entity determines that
such attendance is in the national interest
and advance notice is transmitted to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate that in-
cludes the basis of that determination.
(b) None of the funds made available under
this Act may be used to pay for the travel to
or attendance of more than 50 employees,
who are stationed in the United States, at
any single conference occurring outside the
United States unless the agency or entity de-
termines that such attendance is in the na-
tional interest and advance notice is trans-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate that includes the basis of that deter-
mination.
SEC. 632. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used for first-class or
business-class travel by the employees of ex-
ecutive branch agencies funded by this Act
in contravention of sections 301–10.122
through 301–10.125 of title 41, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 633. In addition to any amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for ex-
penses related to enhancements to
www.oversight.gov, $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be provided
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S369
January 22, 2019
for an additional amount for such purpose to
the Inspectors General Council Fund (Fund)
established pursuant to Section 11(c)(3)(B) of
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.), as amended: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any amounts
or any authority available to the Council of
the Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency under section 11 of the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as amended.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—GOVERNMENT-
WIDE
DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES, AND CORPORATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 701. No department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States receiving ap-
propriated funds under this or any other Act
for fiscal year 2019 shall obligate or expend
any such funds, unless such department,
agency, or instrumentality has in place, and
will continue to administer in good faith, a
written policy designed to ensure that all of
its workplaces are free from the illegal use,
possession, or distribution of controlled sub-
stances (as defined in the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers
and employees of such department, agency,
or instrumentality.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise specifically pro-
vided, the maximum amount allowable dur-
ing the current fiscal year in accordance
with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United
States Code, for the purchase of any pas-
senger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, am-
bulances, law enforcement vehicles, protec-
tive vehicles, and undercover surveillance
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except
station wagons for which the maximum shall
be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may be
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-
type vehicles: Provided further, That the lim-
its set forth in this section may not be ex-
ceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration
under the provisions of the Electric and Hy-
brid Vehicle Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further,
That the limits set forth in this section may
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant
to Public Law 101–549 over the cost of com-
parable conventionally fueled vehicles: Pro-
vided further, That the limits set forth in this
section shall not apply to any vehicle that is
a commercial item and which operates on al-
ternative fuel, including but not limited to
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydro-
gen fuel cell vehicles.
SEC. 703. Appropriations of the executive
departments and independent establishments
for the current fiscal year available for ex-
penses of travel, or for the expenses of the
activity concerned, are hereby made avail-
able for quarters allowances and cost-of-liv-
ing allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C.
5922–5924.
SEC. 704. Unless otherwise specified in law
during the current fiscal year, no part of any
appropriation contained in this or any other
Act shall be used to pay the compensation of
any officer or employee of the Government
of the United States (including any agency
the majority of the stock of which is owned
by the Government of the United States)
whose post of duty is in the continental
United States unless such person: (1) is a cit-
izen of the United States; (2) is a person who
is lawfully admitted for permanent residence
and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 8
U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is
admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or
is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has
filed a declaration of intention to become a
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen
when eligible; or (4) is a person who owes al-
legiance to the United States: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, affidavits signed
by any such person shall be considered prima
facie evidence that the requirements of this
section with respect to his or her status are
being complied with: Provided further, That
for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such
affidavits shall be submitted prior to em-
ployment and updated thereafter as nec-
essary: Provided further, That any person
making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a
felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no
more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more
than 1 year, or both: Provided further, That
the above penal clause shall be in addition
to, and not in substitution for, any other
provisions of existing law: Provided further,
That any payment made to any officer or
employee contrary to the provisions of this
section shall be recoverable in action by the
Federal Government: Provided further, That
this section shall not apply to any person
who is an officer or employee of the Govern-
ment of the United States on the date of en-
actment of this Act, or to international
broadcasters employed by the Broadcasting
Board of Governors, or to temporary employ-
ment of translators, or to temporary em-
ployment in the field service (not to exceed
60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
the employment as Wildland firefighters for
not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens
employed by the Department of the Interior
or the USDA Forest Service pursuant to an
agreement with another country.
SEC. 705. Appropriations available to any
department or agency during the current fis-
cal year for necessary expenses, including
maintenance or operating expenses, shall
also be available for payment to the General
Services Administration for charges for
space and services and those expenses of ren-
ovation and alteration of buildings and fa-
cilities which constitute public improve-
ments performed in accordance with the
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479),
the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86
Stat. 216), or other applicable law.
SEC. 706. In addition to funds provided in
this or any other Act, all Federal agencies
are authorized to receive and use funds re-
sulting from the sale of materials, including
Federal records disposed of pursuant to a
records schedule recovered through recycling
or waste prevention programs. Such funds
shall be available until expended for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(1) Acquisition, waste reduction and pre-
vention, and recycling programs as described
in Executive Order No. 13693 (March 19, 2015),
including any such programs adopted prior
to the effective date of the Executive order.
(2) Other Federal agency environmental
management programs, including, but not
limited to, the development and implemen-
tation of hazardous waste management and
pollution prevention programs.
(3) Other employee programs as authorized
by law or as deemed appropriate by the head
of the Federal agency.
SEC. 707. Funds made available by this or
any other Act for administrative expenses in
the current fiscal year of the corporations
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31,
United States Code, shall be available, in ad-
dition to objects for which such funds are
otherwise available, for rent in the District
of Columbia; services in accordance with 5
U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under
this head, all the provisions of which shall be
applicable to the expenditure of such funds
unless otherwise specified in the Act by
which they are made available: Provided,
That in the event any functions budgeted as
administrative expenses are subsequently
transferred to or paid from other funds, the
limitations on administrative expenses shall
be correspondingly reduced.
SEC. 708. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for interagency financing of boards
(except Federal Executive Boards), commis-
sions, councils, committees, or similar
groups (whether or not they are interagency
entities) which do not have a prior and spe-
cific statutory approval to receive financial
support from more than one agency or in-
strumentality.
SEC. 709. None of the funds made available
pursuant to the provisions of this or any
other Act shall be used to implement, admin-
ister, or enforce any regulation which has
been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolu-
tion duly adopted in accordance with the ap-
plicable law of the United States.
SEC. 710. During the period in which the
head of any department or agency, or any
other officer or civilian employee of the Fed-
eral Government appointed by the President
of the United States, holds office, no funds
may be obligated or expended in excess of
$5,000 to furnish or redecorate the office of
such department head, agency head, officer,
or employee, or to purchase furniture or
make improvements for any such office, un-
less advance notice of such furnishing or re-
decoration is transmitted to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate. For the purposes of
this section, the term ‘‘office’’ shall include
the entire suite of offices assigned to the in-
dividual, as well as any other space used pri-
marily by the individual or the use of which
is directly controlled by the individual.
SEC. 711. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of national security and
emergency preparedness telecommunications
initiatives which benefit multiple Federal
departments, agencies, or entities, as pro-
vided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6,
2012).
SEC. 712. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended by any department, agen-
cy, or other instrumentality of the Federal
Government to pay the salaries or expenses
of any individual appointed to a position of
a confidential or policy-determining char-
acter that is excepted from the competitive
service under section 3302 of title 5, United
States Code, (pursuant to schedule C of sub-
part C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of
Federal Regulations) unless the head of the
applicable department, agency, or other in-
strumentality employing such schedule C in-
dividual certifies to the Director of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management that the
schedule C position occupied by the indi-
vidual was not created solely or primarily in
order to detail the individual to the White
House.
(b) The provisions of this section shall not
apply to Federal employees or members of
the armed forces detailed to or from an ele-
ment of the intelligence community (as that
term is defined under section 3(4) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003(4))).
SEC. 713. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for the payment of the salary of
any officer or employee of the Federal Gov-
ernment, who—
(1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or
threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other
officer or employee of the Federal Govern-
ment from having any direct oral or written
communication or contact with any Member,
committee, or subcommittee of the Congress
in connection with any matter pertaining to
the employment of such other officer or em-
ployee or pertaining to the department or
agency of such other officer or employee in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S370 January 22, 2019
any way, irrespective of whether such com-
munication or contact is at the initiative of
such other officer or employee or in response
to the request or inquiry of such Member,
committee, or subcommittee; or
(2) removes, suspends from duty without
pay, demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, sta-
tus, pay, or performance or efficiency rating,
denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns,
transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in re-
gard to any employment right, entitlement,
or benefit, or any term or condition of em-
ployment of, any other officer or employee
of the Federal Government, or attempts or
threatens to commit any of the foregoing ac-
tions with respect to such other officer or
employee, by reason of any communication
or contact of such other officer or employee
with any Member, committee, or sub-
committee of the Congress as described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended for any employee training
that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 715. No part of any funds appropriated
in this or any other Act shall be used by an
agency of the executive branch, other than
for normal and recognized executive-legisla-
tive relationships, for publicity or propa-
ganda purposes, and for the preparation, dis-
tribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, book-
let, publication, radio, television, or film
presentation designed to support or defeat
legislation pending before the Congress, ex-
cept in presentation to the Congress itself.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act may be used by an
agency to provide a Federal employee’s
home address to any labor organization ex-
cept when the employee has authorized such
disclosure or when such disclosure has been
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 717. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pro-
vide any non-public information such as
mailing, telephone or electronic mailing
lists to any person or any organization out-
side of the Federal Government without the
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate.
SEC. 718. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be used
directly or indirectly, including by private
contractor, for publicity or propaganda pur-
poses within the United States not here-
tofore authorized by Congress.
SEC. 719. (a) In this section, the term
‘‘agency’’—
(1) means an Executive agency, as defined
under 5 U.S.C. 105; and
(2) includes a military department, as de-
fined under section 102 of such title, the
United States Postal Service, and the Postal
Regulatory Commission.
(b) Unless authorized in accordance with
law or regulations to use such time for other
purposes, an employee of an agency shall use
official time in an honest effort to perform
official duties. An employee not under a
leave system, including a Presidential ap-
pointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has
an obligation to expend an honest effort and
a reasonable proportion of such employee’s
time in the performance of official duties.
SEC. 720. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, funds made avail-
able for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act to any department or agency,
which is a member of the Federal Account-
ing Standards Advisory Board (FASAB),
shall be available to finance an appropriate
share of FASAB administrative costs.
SEC. 721. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, the head of each
Executive department and agency is hereby
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ with the approval of the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget,
funds made available for the current fiscal
year by this or any other Act, including re-
bates from charge card and other contracts:
Provided, That these funds shall be adminis-
tered by the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to support Government-wide and other
multi-agency financial, information tech-
nology, procurement, and other management
innovations, initiatives, and activities, in-
cluding improving coordination and reducing
duplication, as approved by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the appropriate inter-
agency and multi-agency groups designated
by the Director (including the President’s
Management Council for overall manage-
ment improvement initiatives, the Chief Fi-
nancial Officers Council for financial man-
agement initiatives, the Chief Information
Officers Council for information technology
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers
Council for human capital initiatives, the
Chief Acquisition Officers Council for pro-
curement initiatives, and the Performance
Improvement Council for performance im-
provement initiatives): Provided further,
That the total funds transferred or reim-
bursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve
coordination, reduce duplication, and for
other activities related to Federal Govern-
ment Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C.
1120, and not to exceed $17,000,000 for Govern-
ment-Wide innovations, initiatives, and ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the funds
transferred to or for reimbursement of ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ during fiscal year 2019 shall re-
main available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That such
transfers or reimbursements may only be
made after 15 days following notification of
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 722. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a woman may breastfeed her
child at any location in a Federal building or
on Federal property, if the woman and her
child are otherwise authorized to be present
at the location.
SEC. 723. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of specific projects, work-
shops, studies, and similar efforts to carry
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Council (authorized by Execu-
tive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple
Federal departments, agencies, or entities:
Provided, That the Office of Management and
Budget shall provide a report describing the
budget of and resources connected with the
National Science and Technology Council to
the Committees on Appropriations, the
House Committee on Science and Tech-
nology, and the Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation 90 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 724. Any request for proposals, solici-
tation, grant application, form, notification,
press release, or other publications involving
the distribution of Federal funds shall com-
ply with any relevant requirements in part
200 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations:
Provided, That this section shall apply to di-
rect payments, formula funds, and grants re-
ceived by a State receiving Federal funds.
SEC. 725. (a) PROHIBITION OF FEDERAL AGEN-
CY MONITORING OF INDIVIDUALS’ INTERNET
USE.—None of the funds made available in
this or any other Act may be used by any
Federal agency—
(1) to collect, review, or create any aggre-
gation of data, derived from any means, that
includes any personally identifiable informa-
tion relating to an individual’s access to or
use of any Federal Government Internet site
of the agency; or
(2) to enter into any agreement with a
third party (including another government
agency) to collect, review, or obtain any ag-
gregation of data, derived from any means,
that includes any personally identifiable in-
formation relating to an individual’s access
to or use of any nongovernmental Internet
site.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations estab-
lished in subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1) any record of aggregate data that does
not identify particular persons;
(2) any voluntary submission of personally
identifiable information;
(3) any action taken for law enforcement,
regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in ac-
cordance with applicable law; or
(4) any action described in subsection (a)(1)
that is a system security action taken by the
operator of an Internet site and is nec-
essarily incident to providing the Internet
site services or to protecting the rights or
property of the provider of the Internet site.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
(1) The term ‘‘regulatory’’ means agency
actions to implement, interpret or enforce
authorities provided in law.
(2) The term ‘‘supervisory’’ means exami-
nations of the agency’s supervised institu-
tions, including assessing safety and sound-
ness, overall financial condition, manage-
ment practices and policies and compliance
with applicable standards as provided in law.
SEC. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to enter into or
renew a contract which includes a provision
providing prescription drug coverage, except
where the contract also includes a provision
for contraceptive coverage.
(b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a
contract with—
(1) any of the following religious plans:
(A) Personal Care’s HMO; and
(B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
(2) any existing or future plan, if the car-
rier for the plan objects to such coverage on
the basis of religious beliefs.
(c) In implementing this section, any plan
that enters into or renews a contract under
this section may not subject any individual
to discrimination on the basis that the indi-
vidual refuses to prescribe or otherwise pro-
vide for contraceptives because such activi-
ties would be contrary to the individual’s re-
ligious beliefs or moral convictions.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to require coverage of abortion or
abortion-related services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S371
January 22, 2019
SEC. 727. The United States is committed
to ensuring the health of its Olympic, Pan
American, and Paralympic athletes, and sup-
ports the strict adherence to anti-doping in
sport through testing, adjudication, edu-
cation, and research as performed by nation-
ally recognized oversight authorities.
SEC. 728. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated for official
travel to Federal departments and agencies
may be used by such departments and agen-
cies, if consistent with Office of Management
and Budget Circular A–126 regarding official
travel for Government personnel, to partici-
pate in the fractional aircraft ownership
pilot program.
SEC. 729. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds appropriated or
made available under this or any other ap-
propriations Act may be used to implement
or enforce restrictions or limitations on the
Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Pro-
gram, or to implement the proposed regula-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part
300 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regula-
tions, published in the Federal Register, vol-
ume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (re-
lating to the detail of executive branch em-
ployees to the legislative branch).
SEC. 730. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no executive branch agency shall
purchase, construct, or lease any additional
facilities, except within or contiguous to ex-
isting locations, to be used for the purpose of
conducting Federal law enforcement train-
ing without the advance approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, except
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center is authorized to obtain the temporary
use of additional facilities by lease, contract,
or other agreement for training which can-
not be accommodated in existing Center fa-
cilities.
SEC. 731. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this or any other Act may be used by an ex-
ecutive branch agency to produce any pre-
packaged news story intended for broadcast
or distribution in the United States, unless
the story includes a clear notification within
the text or audio of the prepackaged news
story that the prepackaged news story was
prepared or funded by that executive branch
agency.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
section 552a of title 5, United States Code
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and
regulations implementing that section.
SEC. 733. (a) IN GENERAL.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used for
any Federal Government contract with any
foreign incorporated entity which is treated
as an inverted domestic corporation under
section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of
such an entity.
(b) WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any Secretary shall waive
subsection (a) with respect to any Federal
Government contract under the authority of
such Secretary if the Secretary determines
that the waiver is required in the interest of
national security.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Any Secretary
issuing a waiver under paragraph (1) shall re-
port such issuance to Congress.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply to any Federal Government contract
entered into before the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, or to any task order issued
pursuant to such contract.
SEC. 734. During fiscal year 2019, for each
employee who—
(1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or
8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code; or
(2) retires under any other provision of
subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of
such title 5 and receives a payment as an in-
centive to separate, the separating agency
shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund an amount equal to the
Office of Personnel Management’s average
unit cost of processing a retirement claim
for the preceding fiscal year. Such amounts
shall be available until expended to the Of-
fice of Personnel Management and shall be
deemed to be an administrative expense
under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United
States Code.
SEC. 735. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be used to
recommend or require any entity submitting
an offer for a Federal contract to disclose
any of the following information as a condi-
tion of submitting the offer:
(1) Any payment consisting of a contribu-
tion, expenditure, independent expenditure,
or disbursement for an electioneering com-
munication that is made by the entity, its
officers or directors, or any of its affiliates
or subsidiaries to a candidate for election for
Federal office or to a political committee, or
that is otherwise made with respect to any
election for Federal office.
(2) Any disbursement of funds (other than
a payment described in paragraph (1)) made
by the entity, its officers or directors, or any
of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any person
with the intent or the reasonable expecta-
tion that the person will use the funds to
make a payment described in paragraph (1).
(b) In this section, each of the terms ‘‘con-
tribution’’, ‘‘expenditure’’, ‘‘independent ex-
penditure’’, ‘‘electioneering communica-
tion’’, ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’, and ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given such term in
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
SEC. 736. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pay
for the painting of a portrait of an officer or
employee of the Federal government, includ-
ing the President, the Vice President, a
member of Congress (including a Delegate or
a Resident Commissioner to Congress), the
head of an executive branch agency (as de-
fined in section 133 of title 41, United States
Code), or the head of an office of the legisla-
tive branch.
SEC. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, and except as otherwise
provided in this section, no part of any of the
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2019, by
this or any other Act, may be used to pay
any prevailing rate employee described in
section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States
Code—
(A) during the period from the date of expi-
ration of the limitation imposed by the com-
parable section for the previous fiscal years
until the normal effective date of the appli-
cable wage survey adjustment that is to take
effect in fiscal year 2019, in an amount that
exceeds the rate payable for the applicable
grade and step of the applicable wage sched-
ule in accordance with such section; and
(B) during the period consisting of the re-
mainder of fiscal year 2019, in an amount
that exceeds, as a result of a wage survey ad-
justment, the rate payable under subpara-
graph (A) by more than the sum of—
(i) the percentage adjustment taking effect
in fiscal year 2019 under section 5303 of title
5, United States Code, in the rates of pay
under the General Schedule; and
(ii) the difference between the overall aver-
age percentage of the locality-based com-
parability payments taking effect in fiscal
year 2019 under section 5304 of such title
(whether by adjustment or otherwise), and
the overall average percentage of such pay-
ments which was effective in the previous
fiscal year under such section.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no prevailing rate employee described in
subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2)
of title 5, United States Code, and no em-
ployee covered by section 5348 of such title,
may be paid during the periods for which
paragraph (1) is in effect at a rate that ex-
ceeds the rates that would be payable under
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable
to such employee.
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, the
rates payable to an employee who is covered
by this subsection and who is paid from a
schedule not in existence on September 30,
2018, shall be determined under regulations
prescribed by the Office of Personnel Man-
agement.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, rates of premium pay for employees sub-
ject to this subsection may not be changed
from the rates in effect on September 30,
2018, except to the extent determined by the
Office of Personnel Management to be con-
sistent with the purpose of this subsection.
(5) This subsection shall apply with respect
to pay for service performed after September
30, 2018.
(6) For the purpose of administering any
provision of law (including any rule or regu-
lation that provides premium pay, retire-
ment, life insurance, or any other employee
benefit) that requires any deduction or con-
tribution, or that imposes any requirement
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary
or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay
payable after the application of this sub-
section shall be treated as the rate of salary
or basic pay.
(7) Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
sidered to permit or require the payment to
any employee covered by this subsection at a
rate in excess of the rate that would be pay-
able were this subsection not in effect.
(8) The Office of Personnel Management
may provide for exceptions to the limita-
tions imposed by this subsection if the Office
determines that such exceptions are nec-
essary to ensure the recruitment or reten-
tion of qualified employees.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be—
(1) not less than the percentage received by
employees in the same location whose rates
of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the
statutory pay systems under sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That prevailing rate employees at lo-
cations where there are no employees whose
pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and
prevailing rate employees described in sec-
tion 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code,
shall be considered to be located in the pay
locality designated as ‘‘Rest of United
States’’ pursuant to section 5304 of title 5,
United States Code, for purposes of this sub-
section; and
(2) effective as of the first day of the first
applicable pay period beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2018.
SEC. 738. (a) The head of any Executive
branch department, agency, board, commis-
sion, or office funded by this or any other ap-
propriations Act shall submit annual reports
to the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, regarding the costs and contracting
procedures related to each conference held
by any such department, agency, board, com-
mission, or office during fiscal year 2019 for
which the cost to the United States Govern-
ment was more than $100,000.
(b) Each report submitted shall include, for
each conference described in subsection (a)
held during the applicable period—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S372 January 22, 2019
(1) a description of its purpose;
(2) the number of participants attending;
(3) a detailed statement of the costs to the
United States Government, including—
(A) the cost of any food or beverages;
(B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
(C) the cost of employee or contractor
travel to and from the conference; and
(D) a discussion of the methodology used
to determine which costs relate to the con-
ference; and
(4) a description of the contracting proce-
dures used including—
(A) whether contracts were awarded on a
competitive basis; and
(B) a discussion of any cost comparison
conducted by the departmental component
or office in evaluating potential contractors
for the conference.
(c) Within 15 days after the end of a quar-
ter, the head of any such department, agen-
cy, board, commission, or office shall notify
the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, of the date, location, and number of em-
ployees attending a conference held by any
Executive branch department, agency, board,
commission, or office funded by this or any
other appropriations Act during fiscal year
2019 for which the cost to the United States
Government was more than $20,000.
(d) A grant or contract funded by amounts
appropriated by this or any other appropria-
tions Act may not be used for the purpose of
defraying the costs of a conference described
in subsection (c) that is not directly and pro-
grammatically related to the purpose for
which the grant or contract was awarded,
such as a conference held in connection with
planning, training, assessment, review, or
other routine purposes related to a project
funded by the grant or contract.
(e) None of the funds made available in this
or any other appropriations Act may be used
for travel and conference activities that are
not in compliance with Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Memorandum M–12–12
dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revi-
sions to that memorandum.
SEC. 739. None of the funds made available
in this or any other appropriations Act may
be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce
funding for a program, project, or activity as
proposed in the President’s budget request
for a fiscal year until such proposed change
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation
Act, or unless such change is made pursuant
to the reprogramming or transfer provisions
of this or any other appropriations Act.
SEC. 740. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement, administer, enforce, or apply the
rule entitled ‘‘Competitive Area’’ published
by the Office of Personnel Management in
the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed.
Reg. 20180 et seq.).
SEC. 741. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used to begin or announce
a study or public-private competition re-
garding the conversion to contractor per-
formance of any function performed by Fed-
eral employees pursuant to Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Circular A–76 or any other
administrative regulation, directive, or pol-
icy.
SEC. 742. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be available for a contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement with an en-
tity that requires employees or contractors
of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste,
or abuse to sign internal confidentiality
agreements or statements prohibiting or
otherwise restricting such employees or con-
tractors from lawfully reporting such waste,
fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative
or law enforcement representative of a Fed-
eral department or agency authorized to re-
ceive such information.
(b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall
not contravene requirements applicable to
Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other
form issued by a Federal department or
agency governing the nondisclosure of classi-
fied information.
SEC. 743. (a) No funds appropriated in this
or any other Act may be used to implement
or enforce the agreements in Standard
Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any
other nondisclosure policy, form, or agree-
ment if such policy, form, or agreement does
not contain the following provisions: ‘‘These
provisions are consistent with and do not su-
persede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the
employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by existing statute or Executive
order relating to (1) classified information,
(2) communications to Congress, (3) the re-
porting to an Inspector General of a viola-
tion of any law, rule, or regulation, or mis-
management, a gross waste of funds, an
abuse of authority, or a substantial and spe-
cific danger to public health or safety, or (4)
any other whistleblower protection. The
definitions, requirements, obligations,
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by
controlling Executive orders and statutory
provisions are incorporated into this agree-
ment and are controlling.’’: Provided, That
notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, a nondisclosure policy form or
agreement that is to be executed by a person
connected with the conduct of an intel-
ligence or intelligence-related activity,
other than an employee or officer of the
United States Government, may contain pro-
visions appropriate to the particular activity
for which such document is to be used. Such
form or agreement shall, at a minimum, re-
quire that the person will not disclose any
classified information received in the course
of such activity unless specifically author-
ized to do so by the United States Govern-
ment. Such nondisclosure forms shall also
make it clear that they do not bar disclo-
sures to Congress, or to an authorized offi-
cial of an executive agency or the Depart-
ment of Justice, that are essential to report-
ing a substantial violation of law.
(b) A nondisclosure agreement may con-
tinue to be implemented and enforced not-
withstanding subsection (a) if it complies
with the requirements for such agreement
that were in effect when the agreement was
entered into.
(c) No funds appropriated in this or any
other Act may be used to implement or en-
force any agreement entered into during fis-
cal year 2014 which does not contain substan-
tially similar language to that required in
subsection (a).
SEC. 744. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that has any
unpaid Federal tax liability that has been as-
sessed, for which all judicial and administra-
tive remedies have been exhausted or have
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely
manner pursuant to an agreement with the
authority responsible for collecting the tax
liability, where the awarding agency is
aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a
Federal agency has considered suspension or
debarment of the corporation and has made
a determination that this further action is
not necessary to protect the interests of the
Government.
SEC. 745. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that was con-
victed of a felony criminal violation under
any Federal law within the preceding 24
months, where the awarding agency is aware
of the conviction, unless a Federal agency
has considered suspension or debarment of
the corporation and has made a determina-
tion that this further action is not necessary
to protect the interests of the Government.
SEC. 746. (a) During fiscal year 2019, on the
date on which a request is made for a trans-
fer of funds in accordance with section 1017
of Public Law 111–203, the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate of such request.
(b) Any notification required by this sec-
tion shall be made available on the Bureau’s
public Web site.
SEC. 747. If, for fiscal year 2019, new budget
authority provided in appropriations Acts
exceeds the discretionary spending limit for
any category set forth in section 251(c) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 due to estimating dif-
ferences with the Congressional Budget Of-
fice, an adjustment to the discretionary
spending limit in such category for fiscal
year 2019 shall be made by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget in the
amount of the excess but the total of all
such adjustments shall not exceed 0.2 per-
cent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary
spending limits for all categories for that fis-
cal year.
SEC. 748. (a) The adjustment in rates of
basic pay for employees under the statutory
pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year
2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United
States Code, shall be an increase of 1.4 per-
cent, and the overall average percentage of
the adjustments taking effect in such fiscal
year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such
title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent
(with comparability payments to be deter-
mined and allocated among pay localities by
the President). All adjustments under this
subsection shall be effective as of the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2019.
(b) Notwithstanding section 737, the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be no less than
the percentages in subsection (a) as employ-
ees in the same location whose rates of basic
pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory
pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and
5304a of title 5, United States Code. Pre-
vailing rate employees at locations where
there are no employees whose pay is in-
creased pursuant to sections 5303, 5304, and
5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate em-
ployees described in section 5343(a)(5) of such
title 5 shall be considered to be located in
the pay locality designated as ″Rest of U.S.″
pursuant to section 5304 of such title 5 for
purposes of this subsection.
(c) Funds used to carry out this section
shall be paid from appropriations, which are
made to each applicable department or agen-
cy for salaries and expenses for fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 749. (a) Notwithstanding the official
rate adjusted under section 104 of title 3,
United States Code, the rate payable to the
Vice President during calendar year 2019
shall be 1.9 percent above the rate payable to
the Vice President on December 31, 2018, as
limited under section 738 of division E of the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–141).
(b) Notwithstanding the official rate ad-
justed under section 5318 of title 5, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S373
January 22, 2019
States Code, or any other provision of law,
the payable rate for an employee serving in
an Executive Schedule position, or in a posi-
tion for which the rate of pay is fixed by
statute at an Executive Schedule rate, shall
be increased by 1.9 percent (relative to the
preexisting rate actually payable) at the
time the official rate is adjusted in January
2019. Such an employee may receive no other
pay increase during calendar year 2019, ex-
cept as provided in subsection (i).
(c) Notwithstanding section 401 of the For-
eign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96–465)
or any other provision of law, a chief of mis-
sion or ambassador at large is subject to sub-
section (b) in the same manner as other em-
ployees who are paid at an Executive Sched-
ule rate.
(d)(1) This subsection applies to—
(A) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Ex-
ecutive Service paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule; or
(B) a limited term appointee or limited
emergency appointee in the Senior Execu-
tive Service serving under a political ap-
pointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule.
(2) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383
of title 5, United States Code, an employee
described in paragraph (1) who is serving at
the time official rates of the Executive
Schedule are adjusted may receive a single
increase in the employee’s pay rate of no
more than 1.9 percent during calendar year
2019, subject to the normally applicable pay
rules and pay limitations in effect on Decem-
ber 31, 2013, after those pay limitations are
increased by 1.9 percent (after applicable
rounding). Such an employee may receive no
other pay increase during calendar year 2019,
except as provided in subsection (i).
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, any employee paid a rate of basic pay
(including any locality-based payments
under section 5304 of title 5, United States
Code, or similar authority) at or above the
official rate for level IV of the Executive
Schedule who serves under a political ap-
pointment, and who is serving at the time of-
ficial rates of the Executive Schedule are ad-
justed, may receive a single increase in the
employee’s pay rate of no more than 1.9 per-
cent during calendar year 2019, subject to the
normally applicable pay rules and pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2013, after
those pay limitations are increased by 1.9
percent (after applicable rounding). Such an
employee may receive no other pay increase
during calendar year 2019, except as provided
in subsection (i). This subsection does not
apply to employees in the General Schedule
pay system or the Foreign Service pay sys-
tem, to employees appointed under section
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to em-
ployees in another pay system whose posi-
tion would be classified at GS–15 or below if
chapter 51 of title 5, United States Code, ap-
plied to them.
(f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e)
shall prevent employees who do not serve
under a political appointment from receiving
pay increases as otherwise provided under
applicable law.
(g) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Executive Service basic pay under sec-
tion 3392(c) of title 5, United States Code, for
such time as that election is in effect.
(h) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Foreign Service pay entitlements under
section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of
1980 (Public Law 96–465) for such time as that
election is in effect.
(i) Notwithstanding subsections (b)
through (e), an employee in a covered posi-
tion may receive a pay rate increase upon an
authorized movement to a different covered
position only if that new position has higher-
level duties and a pre-established level or
range of pay higher than the level or range
for the position held immediately before the
movement. Any such increase must be based
on the rates of pay and applicable pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2013, after
those rates and pay limitations are increased
by 1.9 percent (after applicable rounding).
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, for an individual who is newly appointed
to a covered position during the period of
time subject to this section, the initial pay
rate shall be based on the rates of pay and
applicable pay limitations in effect on De-
cember 31, 2013, after those rates and pay
limitations are increased by 1.9 percent
(after applicable rounding).
(k) If an employee affected by this section
is subject to a biweekly pay period that be-
gins in calendar year 2019 but ends in cal-
endar year 2020, the bar on the employee’s
receipt of pay rate increases shall apply
through the end of that pay period.
(l) For the purpose of this section, the
term ‘‘covered position’’ means a position
occupied by an employee whose pay is re-
stricted under this section.
(m) This section takes effect on the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2019.
SEC. 750. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in any title other than title IV or VIII
shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
TITLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 801. There are appropriated from the
applicable funds of the District of Columbia
such sums as may be necessary for making
refunds and for the payment of legal settle-
ments or judgments that have been entered
against the District of Columbia govern-
ment.
SEC. 802. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes or implementation
of any policy including boycott designed to
support or defeat legislation pending before
Congress or any State legislature.
SEC. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds pro-
vided under this Act to the agencies funded
by this Act, both Federal and District gov-
ernment agencies, that remain available for
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019,
or provided from any accounts in the Treas-
ury of the United States derived by the col-
lection of fees available to the agencies fund-
ed by this Act, shall be available for obliga-
tion or expenditures for an agency through a
reprogramming of funds which—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or re-
sponsibility center;
(3) establishes or changes allocations spe-
cifically denied, limited or increased under
this Act;
(4) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any program, project, or responsi-
bility center for which funds have been de-
nied or restricted;
(5) re-establishes any program or project
previously deferred through reprogramming;
(6) augments any existing program,
project, or responsibility center through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
(7) increases by 20 percent or more per-
sonnel assigned to a specific program,
project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to approve and execute re-
programming and transfer requests of local
funds under this title through November 7,
2019.
SEC. 804. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act may be used by the District
of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses,
or other costs associated with the offices of
United States Senator or United States Rep-
resentative under section 4(d) of the District
of Columbia Statehood Constitutional Con-
vention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3–171;
D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–123).
SEC. 805. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, none of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or by any other Act may be
used to provide any officer or employee of
the District of Columbia with an official ve-
hicle unless the officer or employee uses the
vehicle only in the performance of the offi-
cer’s or employee’s official duties. For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘official du-
ties’’ does not include travel between the of-
ficer’s or employee’s residence and work-
place, except in the case of—
(1) an officer or employee of the Metropoli-
tan Police Department who resides in the
District of Columbia or is otherwise des-
ignated by the Chief of the Department;
(2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an
officer or employee of the District of Colum-
bia Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Department who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(3) at the discretion of the Director of the
Department of Corrections, an officer or em-
ployee of the District of Columbia Depart-
ment of Corrections who resides in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a
day;
(4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical
Examiner, an officer or employee of the Of-
fice of the Chief Medical Examiner who re-
sides in the District of Columbia and is on
call 24 hours a day;
(5) at the discretion of the Director of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, an officer or employee of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia;
and
(7) the Chairman of the Council of the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
SEC. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used by the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General or any
other officer or entity of the District govern-
ment to provide assistance for any petition
drive or civil action which seeks to require
Congress to provide for voting representa-
tion in Congress for the District of Colum-
bia.
(b) Nothing in this section bars the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General from re-
viewing or commenting on briefs in private
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of
the District government regarding such law-
suits.
SEC. 807. None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to distribute
any needle or syringe for the purpose of pre-
venting the spread of blood borne pathogens
in any location that has been determined by
the local public health or local law enforce-
ment authorities to be inappropriate for
such distribution.
SEC. 808. Nothing in this Act may be con-
strued to prevent the Council or Mayor of
the District of Columbia from addressing the
issue of the provision of contraceptive cov-
erage by health insurance plans, but it is the
intent of Congress that any legislation en-
acted on such issue should include a ‘‘con-
science clause’’ which provides exceptions
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S374 January 22, 2019
SEC. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to enact or
carry out any law, rule, or regulation to le-
galize or otherwise reduce penalties associ-
ated with the possession, use, or distribution
of any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
(b) No funds available for obligation or ex-
penditure by the District of Columbia gov-
ernment under any authority may be used to
enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize
or otherwise reduce penalties associated
with the possession, use, or distribution of
any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for
recreational purposes.
SEC. 810. No funds available for obligation
or expenditure by the District of Columbia
government under any authority shall be ex-
pended for any abortion except where the life
of the mother would be endangered if the
fetus were carried to term or where the preg-
nancy is the result of an act of rape or in-
cest.
SEC. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council of the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget in
the format of the budget that the District of
Columbia government submitted pursuant to
section 442 of the District of Columbia Home
Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–204.42),
for all agencies of the District of Columbia
government for fiscal year 2019 that is in the
total amount of the approved appropriation
and that realigns all budgeted data for per-
sonal services and other-than-personal serv-
ices, respectively, with anticipated actual
expenditures.
(b) This section shall apply only to an
agency for which the Chief Financial Officer
for the District of Columbia certifies that a
reallocation is required to address unantici-
pated changes in program requirements.
SEC. 812. No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council for the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget
for the District of Columbia Public Schools
that aligns schools budgets to actual enroll-
ment. The revised appropriated funds budget
shall be in the format of the budget that the
District of Columbia government submitted
pursuant to section 442 of the District of Co-
lumbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.42).
SEC. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this
Act as operating funds may be transferred to
the District of Columbia’s enterprise and
capital funds and such amounts, once trans-
ferred, shall retain appropriation authority
consistent with the provisions of this Act.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to reprogram or transfer for oper-
ating expenses any local funds transferred or
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal
years from operating funds to capital funds,
and such amounts, once transferred or repro-
grammed, shall retain appropriation author-
ity consistent with the provisions of this
Act.
(c) The District of Columbia government
may not transfer or reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
SEC. 814. None of the Federal funds appro-
priated in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year,
nor may any be transferred to other appro-
priations, unless expressly so provided here-
in.
SEC. 815. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law or under this Act, not to ex-
ceed 50 percent of unobligated balances re-
maining available at the end of fiscal year
2019 from appropriations of Federal funds
made available for salaries and expenses for
fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall remain
available through September 30, 2020, for
each such account for the purposes author-
ized: Provided, That a request shall be sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate for approval prior to the expenditure of
such funds: Provided further, That these re-
quests shall be made in compliance with re-
programming guidelines outlined in section
803 of this Act.
SEC. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2020, dur-
ing a period in which neither a District of
Columbia continuing resolution or a regular
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in
effect, local funds are appropriated in the
amount provided for any project or activity
for which local funds are provided in the Act
referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any
modifications enacted by the District of Co-
lumbia as of the beginning of the period dur-
ing which this subsection is in effect) at the
rate set forth by such Act.
(2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is
the Act of the Council of the District of Co-
lumbia pursuant to which a proposed budget
is approved for fiscal year 2020 which (subject
to the requirements of the District of Colum-
bia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local
portion of the annual budget for the District
of Columbia government for fiscal year 2020
for purposes of section 446 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.46, D.C.
Official Code).
(b) Appropriations made by subsection (a)
shall cease to be available—
(1) during any period in which a District of
Columbia continuing resolution for fiscal
year 2020 is in effect; or
(2) upon the enactment into law of the reg-
ular District of Columbia appropriation bill
for fiscal year 2020.
(c) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) is provided under the authority and con-
ditions as provided under this Act and shall
be available to the extent and in the manner
that would be provided by this Act.
(d) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) shall cover all obligations or expendi-
tures incurred for such project or activity
during the portion of fiscal year 2020 for
which this section applies to such project or
activity.
(e) This section shall not apply to a project
or activity during any period of fiscal year
2020 if any other provision of law (other than
an authorization of appropriations)—
(1) makes an appropriation, makes funds
available, or grants authority for such
project or activity to continue for such pe-
riod; or
(2) specifically provides that no appropria-
tion shall be made, no funds shall be made
available, or no authority shall be granted
for such project or activity to continue for
such period.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect obligations of the govern-
ment of the District of Columbia mandated
by other law.
SEC. 817. Section 3(c)(2)(G) of the District
of Columbia College Access Act of 1999 (Pub-
lic Law 106–98; sec. 38–2702(c)(2)(G), D.C. Offi-
cial Code) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
‘‘$1,000,000’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in clause (ii)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘but before school year
2019–2020’’ after ‘‘in or after school year 2016–
2017’’; and
(B) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) For individuals who begin an under-
graduate course of study in or after school
year 2019–2020, is from a family with a tax-
able annual income of less than $500,000. Be-
ginning with school year 2020–2021, the
Mayor shall adjust the amount in the pre-
vious sentence for inflation, as measured by
the percentage increase, if any, from the pre-
ceding fiscal year in the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers, published by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Depart-
ment of Labor.’’.
SEC. 818. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this title or in title IV shall be
treated as referring only to the provisions of
this title or of title IV.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Finan-
cial Services and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION D—DEPARTMENT OF HOME-
LAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT, OPER-
ATIONS, INTELLIGENCE, AND OVER-
SIGHT
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY AND EXECUTIVE
MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary and for executive management for
operations and support, $131,890,000: Provided,
That not to exceed $30,000 shall be for official
reception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds provided
under this heading, $13,000,000 shall be with-
held from obligation until the Secretary
complies with section 106 of this Act and
$13,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation
until the Secretary provides the first report
on border apprehensions required under this
heading by the report accompanying this
Act.
MANAGEMENT DIRECTORATE
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Management
Directorate for operations and support,
$1,063,975,000: Provided, That not to exceed
$2,000 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Management
Directorate for procurement, construction,
and improvements, $157,171,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
$72,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from
unobligated balances from prior year appro-
priations available under the heading ‘‘Dis-
aster Relief Fund’’: Provided, That no
amounts may be transferred from unobli-
gated balances that were designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Concurrent Resolution on the
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as being
for disaster relief pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Management
Directorate for research and development,
$2,545,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
INTELLIGENCE, ANALYSIS, AND OPERATIONS
COORDINATION
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
telligence and Analysis and the Office of Op-
erations Coordination for operations and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S375
January 22, 2019
support, $253,253,000, of which $78,299,000 shall
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That not to exceed $3,825 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses and not to exceed $2,000,000 is avail-
able for facility needs associated with secure
space at fusion centers, including improve-
ments to buildings.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General for operations and support,
$168,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed
$300,000 may be used for certain confidential
operational expenses, including the payment
of informants, to be expended at the direc-
tion of the Inspector General.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. Not later than 30 days after the
last day of each month, the Chief Financial
Officer of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity shall submit to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives a monthly budget and staff-
ing report that includes total obligations of
the Department for that month and for the
fiscal year at the appropriation and program,
project, and activity levels, by the source
year of the appropriation.
SEC. 102. (a) Notwithstanding Section 518 of
Division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2016 (Public Law 114–113), the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security shall submit a
report not later than October 15, 2019, to the
Inspector General of the Department of
Homeland Security listing all grants and
contracts awarded by any means other than
full and open competition during fiscal years
2018 and 2019.
(b) The Inspector General shall review the
report required by subsection (a) to assess
departmental compliance with applicable
laws and regulations and report the results
of that review to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives not later than February 15,
2020.
SEC. 103. The Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall require that all contracts of the
Department of Homeland Security that pro-
vide award fees link such fees to successful
acquisition outcomes, which shall be speci-
fied in terms of cost, schedule, and perform-
ance.
SEC. 104. The Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury, shall notify the Committees
on Appropriations of the Senate and the
House of Representatives of any proposed
transfers of funds available under section
9705(g)(4)(B) of title 31, United States Code
(as added by Public Law 102–393) from the
Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund
to any agency within the Department of
Homeland Security: Provided, That none of
the funds identified for such a transfer may
be obligated until the Committees on Appro-
priations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives are notified of the proposed
transfers.
SEC. 105. All official costs associated with
the use of Government aircraft by Depart-
ment of Homeland Security personnel to sup-
port official travel of the Secretary and the
Deputy Secretary shall be paid from
amounts made available for the Office of the
Secretary.
SEC. 106. (a) Not later than 30 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives, the
Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate
and the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives, a report for fiscal year 2018
on visa overstay data by country as required
by section 1376 of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the report on visa overstay
data shall also include—
(1) overstays from all nonimmigrant visa
categories under the immigration laws, de-
lineated by each of the classes and sub-class-
es of such categories; and
(2) numbers as well as rates of overstays
for each class and sub-class of such non-
immigrant categories on a per-country basis.
(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall publish on the Department’s website
the metrics developed to measure the effec-
tiveness of security between the ports of
entry, including the methodology and data
supporting the resulting measures.
TITLE II
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection for operations and
support, including the transportation of un-
accompanied minor aliens; the provision of
air and marine support to Federal, State,
and local agencies in the enforcement or ad-
ministration of laws enforced by the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; at the discre-
tion of the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the provision of such support to Federal,
State, and local agencies in other law en-
forcement and emergency humanitarian ef-
forts; the purchase and lease of up to 7,500
(6,500 for replacement only) police-type vehi-
cles; the purchase, maintenance, or oper-
ation of marine vessels, aircraft, and un-
manned aerial systems; and contracting with
individuals for personal services abroad;
$12,289,046,000; of which $3,274,000 shall be de-
rived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund for administrative expenses related to
the collection of the Harbor Maintenance
Fee pursuant to section 9505(c)(3) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C.
9505(c)(3)) and notwithstanding section
1511(e)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of which $1,555,887,000
shall be available until September 30, 2020;
and of which such sums as become available
in the Customs User Fee Account, except
sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of the Con-
solidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be de-
rived from that account: Provided, That not
to exceed $34,425 shall be for official recep-
tion and representation expenses: Provided
further, That not to exceed $150,000 shall be
available for payment for rental space in
connection with preclearance operations:
Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That of the
amount provided under this heading,
$325,465,000 is designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection for procurement, con-
struction, and improvements, including pro-
curements to buy marine vessels, aircraft,
and unmanned aerial systems, $7,334,672,000,
of which $193,326,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021, and of which
$7,141,346,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2023, of which $5,700,000,000
shall be available for purposes authorized by
section 102 of the Illegal Immigration Re-
form and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996 (Public Law 104–208) as amended by sec-
tion 564 of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–161), to include ac-
tivities authorized under section 1103(b) of
title 8, United States Code: Provided, That
the conditions set forth in subsections (b)
and (c) of section 230 of division F of the Con-
solidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public
Law 115–141) shall apply during fiscal year
2019 to the amounts made available in the
clause preceding this proviso: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security shall submit to
the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives, and the Comp-
troller General of the United States an up-
dated risk-based plan for improving security
along the borders of the United States that
includes the elements required under sub-
section (a) of section 231 of division F of the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–141), which shall be evaluated in
accordance with subsection (b) of such sec-
tion: Provided further, That funds provided
under this heading may be used for roads,
lighting, cameras, and sensors: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amount provided under this
heading, $4,332,374,000 is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States: Provided
further, That of the amount provided under
this heading, $902,936,000 is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S376 January 22, 2019
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for procure-
ment, construction, and improvements,
$70,431,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021; of which not less than
$10,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects.
TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration for oper-
ations and support, $7,302,455,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That not to exceed $7,650 shall be for official
reception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That security service fees au-
thorized under section 44940 of title 49,
United States Code, shall be credited to this
appropriation as offsetting collections and
shall be available only for aviation security:
Provided further, That the sum appropriated
under this heading from the general fund
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis
as such offsetting collections are received
during fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a
final fiscal year appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at not more than
$4,632,455,000.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration for procure-
ment, construction, and improvements,
$189,629,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration for research
and development, $20,594,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses for the operations
and support of the Coast Guard, not other-
wise provided for; purchase or lease of not to
exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles, which
shall be for replacement only; purchase or
lease of small boats for contingent and emer-
gent requirements (at a unit cost of not
more than $700,000) and repairs and service-
life replacements, not to exceed a total of
$31,000,000; purchase or lease of boats nec-
essary for overseas deployments and activi-
ties; payments pursuant to section 156 of
Public Law 97–377 (42 U.S.C. 402 note; 96 Stat.
1920); and recreation and welfare;
$7,792,409,000; of which $505,000,000 shall be for
defense-related activities, of which
$165,000,000 is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985; of
which $24,500,000 shall be derived from the
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out
the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5));
and of which $11,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
not to exceed $23,000 shall be for official re-
ception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That $25,000,000 shall be with-
held from obligation for Coast Guard Head-
quarters Directorates until a future-years
capital investment plan for fiscal years 2020
through 2024 is submitted to the Committees
on Appropriations of the Senate and the
House of Representatives pursuant to section
217 of this Act.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
environmental compliance and restoration
functions of the Coast Guard under chapter
19 of title 14, United States Code, $13,429,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2023.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard
for procurement, construction, renovation,
and improvement of aids to navigation,
shore facilities (including facilities at De-
partment of Defense installations used by
the Coast Guard), vessels, and aircraft, in-
cluding equipment related thereto,
$2,169,260,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, of which $20,000,000 shall be
derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust
Fund to carry out the purposes of section
1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33
U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard
for research, development, test, and evalua-
tion; and for maintenance, rehabilitation,
lease, and operation of facilities and equip-
ment; $20,109,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021, of which $500,000 shall be
derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust
Fund to carry out the purposes of section
1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33
U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)): Provided, That there may
be credited to and used for the purposes of
this appropriation funds received from State
and local governments, other public authori-
ties, private sources, and foreign countries
for expenses incurred for research, develop-
ment, testing, and evaluation.
RETIRED PAY
For retired pay, including the payment of
obligations otherwise chargeable to lapsed
appropriations for this purpose, payments
under the Retired Serviceman’s Family Pro-
tection and Survivor Benefits Plans, pay-
ment for career status bonuses, payment of
continuation pay under section 356 of title
37, United States Code, concurrent receipts,
combat-related special compensation, and
payments for medical care of retired per-
sonnel and their dependents under chapter 55
of title 10, United States Code, $1,739,844,000,
to remain available until expended.
UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Secret Service for operations and sup-
port, including purchase of not to exceed 652
vehicles for police-type use for replacement
only; hire of passenger motor vehicles; pur-
chase of motorcycles made in the United
States; hire of aircraft; rental of buildings in
the District of Columbia; fencing, lighting,
guard booths, and other facilities on private
or other property not in Government owner-
ship or control, as may be necessary to per-
form protective functions; conduct of and
participation in firearms matches; presen-
tation of awards; conduct of behavioral re-
search in support of protective intelligence
and operations; payment in advance for com-
mercial accommodations as may be nec-
essary to perform protective functions; and
payment, without regard to section 5702 of
title 5, United States Code, of subsistence ex-
penses of employees who are on protective
missions, whether at or away from their
duty stations; $2,093,684,000; of which
$6,782,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and of which $6,000,000 shall
be for a grant for activities related to inves-
tigations of missing and exploited children;
and of which up to $9,500,000 may be for cal-
endar year 2018 premium pay in excess of the
annual equivalent of the limitation on the
rate of pay contained in section 5547(a) of
title 5, United States Code, pursuant to sec-
tion 2 of the Overtime Pay for Protective
Services Act of 2016 (5 U.S.C. 5547 note), as
amended by Public Law 115–160: Provided,
That not to exceed $19,125 shall be for official
reception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $100,000
shall be to provide technical assistance and
equipment to foreign law enforcement orga-
nizations in counterfeit investigations.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the United
States Secret Service for procurement, con-
struction, and improvements, $83,531,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Secret Service for research and devel-
opment, $2,500,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the over-
time limitation prescribed in section 5(c)(1)
of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C.
267(c)(1)) shall be $45,000; and notwith-
standing any other provision of law, none of
the funds appropriated by this Act shall be
available to compensate any employee of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for
overtime, from whatever source, in an
amount that exceeds such limitation, except
in individual cases determined by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, or the designee
of the Secretary, to be necessary for national
security purposes, to prevent excessive costs,
or in cases of immigration emergencies.
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act for the following accounts shall be
available to compensate any employee for
overtime in an annual amount in excess of
$45,000:
(1) ‘‘U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement—Operations and Support’’, except
that the Secretary of Homeland Security, or
the designee of the Secretary, may waive
such amount as necessary for national secu-
rity purposes and in cases of immigration
emergencies.
(2) ‘‘United States Secret Service—Oper-
ations and Support’’, except that the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, or the designee
of the Secretary, may waive such amount as
necessary for national security purposes.
SEC. 202. Funding made available under the
heading ‘‘U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion—Operations and Support’’ and ‘‘U.S.
Customs and Border Protection—Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’
shall be available for customs expenses when
necessary to maintain operations and pre-
vent adverse personnel actions in Puerto
Rico in addition to funding provided by 48
U.S.C. 740.
SEC. 203. As authorized by section 601(b) of
the United States-Colombia Trade Pro-
motion Agreement Implementation Act
(Public Law 112–42), fees collected from pas-
sengers arriving from Canada, Mexico, or an
adjacent island pursuant to section
13031(a)(5) of the Consolidated Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(a)(5)) shall be available until expended.
SEC. 204. For an additional amount for
‘‘U.S. Customs and Border Protection—Oper-
ations and Support’’, $31,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to be reduced by
amounts collected and credited to this ap-
propriation in fiscal year 2019 from amounts
authorized to be collected by section 286(i) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1356(i)), section 10412 of the Farm Se-
curity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8311), and section 817 of the Trade Fa-
cilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015
(Public Law 114–25), or other such author-
izing language: Provided, That to the extent
that amounts realized from such collections
exceed $31,000,000, those amounts in excess of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S377
January 22, 2019
$31,000,000 shall be credited to this appropria-
tion, to remain available until expended.
SEC. 205. None of the funds made available
in this Act for U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection may be used to prevent an individual
not in the business of importing a prescrip-
tion drug (within the meaning of section
801(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act) from importing a prescription
drug from Canada that complies with the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: Pro-
vided, That this section shall apply only to
individuals transporting on their person a
personal-use quantity of the prescription
drug, not to exceed a 90-day supply: Provided
further, That the prescription drug may not
be—
(1) a controlled substance, as defined in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U.S.C. 802); or
(2) a biological product, as defined in sec-
tion 351 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262).
SEC. 206. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds provided in
this or any other Act shall be used to ap-
prove a waiver of the navigation and vessel-
inspection laws pursuant to section 501(b) of
title 46, United States Code, for the transpor-
tation of crude oil distributed from and to
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until the
Secretary of Homeland Security, after con-
sultation with the Secretaries of the Depart-
ments of Energy and Transportation and rep-
resentatives from the United States flag
maritime industry, takes adequate measures
to ensure the use of United States flag ves-
sels: Provided, That the Secretary shall no-
tify the Committees on Appropriations of
the Senate and the House of Representatives,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives within 2
business days of any request for waivers of
navigation and vessel-inspection laws pursu-
ant to section 501(b) of title 46, United States
Code, with respect to such transportation,
and the disposition of such requests.
SEC. 207. (a) Beginning on the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall not—
(1) establish, collect, or otherwise impose
any new border crossing fee on individuals
crossing the Southern border or the North-
ern border at a land port of entry; or
(2) conduct any study relating to the impo-
sition of a border crossing fee.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘border cross-
ing fee’’ means a fee that every pedestrian,
cyclist, and driver and passenger of a private
motor vehicle is required to pay for the
privilege of crossing the Southern border or
the Northern border at a land port of entry.
SEC. 208. Without regard to the limitation
as to time and condition of section 503(d) of
this Act, the Secretary may reprogram with-
in and transfer funds to ‘‘U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement—Operations and
Support’’ as necessary to ensure the deten-
tion of aliens prioritized for removal.
SEC. 209. None of the funds provided under
the heading ‘‘U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement—Operations and Support’’ may
be used to continue a delegation of law en-
forcement authority authorized under sec-
tion 287(g) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) if the Department
of Homeland Security Inspector General de-
termines that the terms of the agreement
governing the delegation of authority have
been materially violated.
SEC. 210. None of the funds provided under
the heading ‘‘U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement—Operations and Support’’ may
be used to continue any contract for the pro-
vision of detention services if the two most
recent overall performance evaluations re-
ceived by the contracted facility are less
than ‘‘adequate’’ or the equivalent median
score in any subsequent performance evalua-
tion system.
SEC. 211. Members of the United States
House of Representatives and the United
States Senate, including the leadership; the
heads of Federal agencies and commissions,
including the Secretary, Deputy Secretary,
Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
of the Department of Homeland Security;
the United States Attorney General, Deputy
Attorney General, Assistant Attorneys Gen-
eral, and the United States Attorneys; and
senior members of the Executive Office of
the President, including the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, shall not
be exempt from Federal passenger and bag-
gage screening.
SEC. 212. Any award by the Transportation
Security Administration to deploy explo-
sives detection systems shall be based on
risk, the airport’s current reliance on other
screening solutions, lobby congestion result-
ing in increased security concerns, high in-
jury rates, airport readiness, and increased
cost effectiveness.
SEC. 213. Notwithstanding section 44923 of
title 49, United States Code, for fiscal year
2019, any funds in the Aviation Security Cap-
ital Fund established by section 44923(h) of
title 49, United States Code, may be used for
the procurement and installation of explo-
sives detection systems or for the issuance of
other transaction agreements for the pur-
pose of funding projects described in section
44923(a) of such title.
SEC. 214. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used by the
Administrator of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration to implement, admin-
ister, or enforce, in abrogation of the respon-
sibility described in section 44903(n)(1) of
title 49, United States Code, any requirement
that airport operators provide airport-fi-
nanced staffing to monitor exit points from
the sterile area of any airport at which the
Transportation Security Administration pro-
vided such monitoring as of December 1, 2013.
SEC. 215. None of the funds made available
by this Act under the heading ‘‘Coast
Guard—Operations and Support’’ shall be for
expenses incurred for recreational vessels
under section 12114 of title 46, United States
Code, except to the extent fees are collected
from owners of yachts and credited to the
appropriation made available by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Coast Guard—Operations
and Support’’: Provided, That to the extent
such fees are insufficient to pay expenses of
recreational vessel documentation under
such section 12114, and there is a backlog of
recreational vessel applications, personnel
performing non-recreational vessel docu-
mentation functions under subchapter II of
chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code,
may perform documentation under section
12114.
SEC. 216. Without regard to the limitation
as to time and condition of section 503(d) of
this Act, after June 30, up to $10,000,000 may
be reprogrammed to or from the Military
Pay and Allowances funding category within
‘‘Coast Guard—Operations and Support’’ in
accordance with subsection (a) of section 503
of this Act.
SEC. 217. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Commandant of the Coast
Guard shall submit to the Committees on
Appropriations of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a future-years capital in-
vestment plan as described in the second pro-
viso under the heading ‘‘Coast Guard—Acqui-
sition, Construction, and Improvements’’ in
the Department of Homeland Security Ap-
propriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 114–4),
which shall be subject to the requirements in
the third and fourth provisos under such
heading.
SEC. 218. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used to reduce the Coast Guard’s Oper-
ations Systems Center mission or its govern-
ment-employed or contract staff levels.
SEC. 219. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to conduct, or to imple-
ment the results of, a competition under Of-
fice of Management and Budget Circular A–
76 for activities performed with respect to
the Coast Guard National Vessel Documenta-
tion Center.
SEC. 220. Funds made available in this Act
may be used to alter operations within the
Civil Engineering Program of the Coast
Guard nationwide, including civil engineer-
ing units, facilities design and construction
centers, maintenance and logistics com-
mands, and the Coast Guard Academy, ex-
cept that none of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to reduce operations within
any civil engineering unit unless specifically
authorized by a statute enacted after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 221. Funds made available for Over-
seas Contingency Operations/Global War on
Terrorism under the heading ‘‘Coast Guard—
Operations and Support’’ may be allocated
by program, project, and activity, notwith-
standing section 503 of this Act.
SEC. 222. The United States Secret Service
is authorized to obligate funds in anticipa-
tion of reimbursements from Federal agen-
cies and entities, as defined in section 105 of
title 5, United States Code, for personnel re-
ceiving training sponsored by the James J.
Rowley Training Center, except that total
obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall
not exceed total budgetary resources avail-
able under the heading ‘‘United States Se-
cret Service—Operations and Support’’ at
the end of the fiscal year.
SEC. 223. None of the funds made available
to the United States Secret Service by this
Act or by previous appropriations Acts may
be made available for the protection of the
head of a Federal agency other than the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security: Provided, That
the Director of the United States Secret
Service may enter into agreements to pro-
vide such protection on a fully reimbursable
basis.
SEC. 224. For purposes of section 503(a)(3) of
this Act, up to $15,000,000 may be repro-
grammed within ‘‘United States Secret Serv-
ice—Operations and Support’’.
SEC. 225. Funding made available in this
Act for ‘‘United States Secret Service—Oper-
ations and Support’’ is available for travel of
United States Secret Service employees on
protective missions without regard to the
limitations on such expenditures in this or
any other Act if the Director of the United
States Secret Service or a designee notifies
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives 10
or more days in advance, or as early as prac-
ticable, prior to such expenditures.
SEC. 226. Each amount designated in this
title by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
TITLE III
PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS,
RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY
CYBERSECURITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
SECURITY AGENCY
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency for
operations and support, $1,338,437,000, of
which $18,570,000 shall remain available until
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S378 January 22, 2019
September 30, 2020: Provided, That not to ex-
ceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and
representation expenses.
FEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICE
The revenues and collections of security
fees credited to this account shall be avail-
able until expended for necessary expenses
related to the protection of federally owned
and leased buildings and for the operations
of the Federal Protective Service.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency for
procurement, construction, and improve-
ments, $329,678,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency for
research and development, $11,126,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for oper-
ations and support, $1,054,838,000: Provided,
That not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official
reception and representation expenses.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for procure-
ment, construction, and improvements,
$128,349,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for Federal assistance
through grants, contracts, cooperative
agreements, and other activities,
$3,022,939,000, which shall be allocated as fol-
lows:
(1) $512,000,000 for the State Homeland Se-
curity Grant Program under section 2004 of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
605), of which $90,000,000 shall be for Oper-
ation Stonegarden, and $10,000,000 shall be
for organizations (as described under section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of
such code) determined by the Secretary of
Homeland Security to be at high risk of a
terrorist attack: Provided, That notwith-
standing subsection (c)(4) of such section
2004, for fiscal year 2019, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico shall make available to local
and tribal governments amounts provided to
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under
this paragraph in accordance with subsection
(c)(1) of such section 2004.
(2) $605,000,000 for the Urban Area Security
Initiative under section 2003 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 604), of which
$25,000,000 shall be for organizations (as de-
scribed under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax
under section 501(a) of such code) determined
by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be
at high risk of a terrorist attack.
(3) $100,000,000 for Public Transportation
Security Assistance, Railroad Security As-
sistance, and Over-the-Road Bus Security
Assistance under sections 1406, 1513, and 1532
of the Implementing Recommendations of
the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C. 1135,
1163, and 1182), of which $10,000,000 shall be
for Amtrak security and $2,000,000 shall be
for Over-the-Road Bus Security: Provided,
That such public transportation security as-
sistance shall be provided directly to public
transportation agencies.
(4) $100,000,000 for Port Security Grants in
accordance with section 70107 of title 46,
United States Code.
(5) $700,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which $350,000,000 shall
be for Assistance to Firefighter Grants and
$350,000,000 shall be for Staffing for Adequate
Fire and Emergency Response Grants under
sections 33 and 34 respectively of the Federal
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
U.S.C. 2229 and 2229a).
(6) $350,000,000 for emergency management
performance grants under the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001),
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121),
the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of
1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701), section 762 of title 6,
United States Code, and Reorganization Plan
No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
(7) $250,000,000 for necessary expenses for
Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis, in
addition to and to supplement any other
sums appropriated under the National Flood
Insurance Fund, and such additional sums as
may be provided by States or other political
subdivisions for cost-shared mapping activi-
ties under section 1360(f)(2) of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4101(f)(2)), to remain available until ex-
pended.
(8) $15,000,000 for Regional Catastrophic
Preparedness Grants.
(9) $15,000,000 for Rehabilitation of High
Hazard Potential Dams under section 8A of
the National Dam Safety Program Act (33
U.S.C. 467f–2).
(10) $100,000,000 for the emergency food and
shelter program under title III of the McKin-
ney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 11331), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed 3.5 per-
cent shall be for total administrative costs.
(11) $275,939,000 to sustain current oper-
ations for training, exercises, technical as-
sistance, and other programs:
Provided, That, of the amounts provided
under this heading, $228,000,000 shall be de-
rived by transfer from unobligated balances
from prior year appropriations available
under the heading ‘‘Disaster Relief Fund’’:
Provided further, That no amounts may be
transferred from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985 or as being for dis-
aster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DISASTER RELIEF FUND
For necessary expenses in carrying out the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.),
$15,547,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $14,965,000,000 shall be for
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
and is designated by the Congress as being
for disaster relief pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided, That of the amounts set aside from
funds provided under this heading pursuant
to subsection (i)(1) of section 203 of the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133(i)(I)),
$250,000,000 shall be available to carry out ac-
tivities for the National Predisaster Mitiga-
tion Fund under that section of that Act (as
in effect on the day before the amendments
made by section 1234 of the Disaster Recov-
ery Reform Act of 2018 (division D of Public
Law 115–254) took effect), in addition to any
amounts otherwise made available for such
purpose by this or any other Act and may be
merged in this account for all purposes with
funds for the revised National Public Infra-
structure Predisaster Hazard Mitigation As-
sistance, as authorized by the amendments
made to section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5133) by section 1234 of the Dis-
aster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 (division
D of Public Law 115–254), once that assist-
ance has been fully implemented.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE FUND
For activities under the National Flood In-
surance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.),
the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Biggert-Waters Flood
Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law
112–141, 126 Stat. 916), and the Homeowner
Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014
(Public Law 113–89; 128 Stat. 1020),
$201,691,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, which shall be derived from
offsetting amounts collected under section
1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance Act
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)); of which $13,784,000
shall be available for mission support associ-
ated with flood management; and of which
$187,907,000 shall be available for flood plain
management and flood mapping: Provided,
That any additional fees collected pursuant
to section 1308(d) of the National Flood In-
surance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)) shall be
credited as offsetting collections to this ac-
count, to be available for flood plain man-
agement and flood mapping: Provided further,
That in fiscal year 2019, no funds shall be
available from the National Flood Insurance
Fund under section 1310 of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017) in
excess of—
(1) $176,304,000 for operating expenses and
salaries and expenses associated with flood
insurance operations;
(2) $1,123,000,000 for commissions and taxes
of agents;
(3) such sums as are necessary for interest
on Treasury borrowings; and
(4) $175,000,000, which shall remain avail-
able until expended, for flood mitigation ac-
tions and for flood mitigation assistance
under section 1366 of the National Flood In-
surance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104c), notwith-
standing sections 1366(e) and 1310(a)(7) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 4104c(e), 4017):
Provided further, That the amounts collected
under section 102 of the Flood Disaster Pro-
tection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a) and sec-
tion 1366(e) of the National Flood Insurance
Act of 1968 shall be deposited in the National
Flood Insurance Fund to supplement other
amounts specified as available for section
1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968, notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), sec-
tion 1366(e), and paragraphs (1) through (3) of
section 1367(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
4012a(f)(8), 4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)–(3)): Provided
further, That total administrative costs shall
not exceed 4 percent of the total appropria-
tion: Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 is
available to carry out section 24 of the
Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability
Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033).
DISASTER ASSISTANCE DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For administrative expenses to carry out
the disaster assistance direct loan program
as authorized by section 417 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5184), $3,000,000 to re-
main available until September 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. Notwithstanding section
2008(a)(12) of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (6 U.S.C. 609(a)(12)) or any other provi-
sion of law, not more than 5 percent of the
amount of a grant made available in para-
graphs (1) through (4) under ‘‘Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency—Federal Assist-
ance’’, may be used by the grantee for ex-
penses directly related to administration of
the grant.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S379
January 22, 2019
SEC. 302. Applications for grants under the
heading ‘‘Federal Emergency Management
Agency—Federal Assistance’’, for paragraphs
(1) through (4), shall be made available to el-
igible applicants not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, eligible
applicants shall submit applications not
later than 80 days after the grant announce-
ment, and the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall act
within 65 days after the receipt of an applica-
tion.
SEC. 303. Under the heading ‘‘Federal
Emergency Management Agency—Federal
Assistance’’, for grants under paragraphs (1)
through (4), (8), and (9), the Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
shall brief the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives 5 full business days in advance
of announcing publicly the intention of mak-
ing an award.
SEC. 304. Under the heading ‘‘Federal
Emergency Management Agency—Federal
Assistance’’, for grants under paragraphs (1)
and (2), the installation of communications
towers is not considered construction of a
building or other physical facility.
SEC. 305. The reporting requirements in
paragraphs (1) and (2) under the heading
‘‘Federal Emergency Management Agency—
Disaster Relief Fund’’ in the Department of
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015
(Public Law 114–4) shall be applied in fiscal
year 2019 with respect to budget year 2020
and current fiscal year 2019, respectively—
(1) in paragraph (1) by substituting ‘‘fiscal
year 2020’’ for ‘‘fiscal year 2016’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ‘‘business’’
after ‘‘fifth’’.
SEC. 306. The aggregate charges assessed
during fiscal year 2019, as authorized in title
III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs
and Housing and Urban Development, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
1999 (42 U.S.C. 5196e), shall not be less than
100 percent of the amounts anticipated by
the Department of Homeland Security to be
necessary for its Radiological Emergency
Preparedness Program for the next fiscal
year: Provided, That the methodology for as-
sessment and collection of fees shall be fair
and equitable and shall reflect costs of pro-
viding such services, including administra-
tive costs of collecting such fees: Provided
further, That such fees shall be deposited in
a Radiological Emergency Preparedness Pro-
gram account as offsetting collections and
will become available for authorized pur-
poses on October 1, 2019, and remain avail-
able until expended.
TITLE IV
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING,
AND SERVICES
U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services for operations and
support of the E-Verify Program, $109,081,000.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services for procurement,
construction, and improvements of the E-
Verify Program, $22,838,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021.
FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING
CENTERS
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers for operations
and support, including the purchase of not to
exceed 117 vehicles for police-type use and
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and serv-
ices as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, $275,666,000, of which
$38,874,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That not to exceed
$7,180 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers for procure-
ment, construction, and improvements, in-
cluding the planning, operational develop-
ment, engineering, and purchases prior to
sustainment and for information technology-
related procurement, construction, and im-
provements, including non-tangible assets of
the Federal Law Enforcement Training Cen-
ters, $85,577,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DIRECTORATE
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Science and
Technology Directorate for operations and
support, including the purchase or lease of
not to exceed 5 vehicles, $308,520,000, of which
$170,462,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That not to exceed
$20,000 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Science and
Technology Directorate for research and de-
velopment, $504,596,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021.
COUNTERING WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
OFFICE
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction Office for oper-
ations and support, $181,464,000: Provided,
That not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official
reception and representation expenses.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses of the Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction Office for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
$100,096,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction Office for re-
search and development, $83,043,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses of the Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction Office for Fed-
eral assistance through grants, contracts,
cooperative agreements, and other activi-
ties, $64,663,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 401. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds otherwise made available
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Serv-
ices may be used to acquire, operate, equip,
and dispose of up to 5 vehicles, for replace-
ment only, for areas where the Adminis-
trator of General Services does not provide
vehicles for lease: Provided, That the Direc-
tor of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services may authorize employees who are
assigned to those areas to use such vehicles
to travel between the employees’ residences
and places of employment.
SEC. 402. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services to grant an immi-
gration benefit unless the results of back-
ground checks required by law to be com-
pleted prior to the granting of the benefit
have been received by U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, and the results do not
preclude the granting of the benefit.
SEC. 403. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to process or approve a
competition under Office of Management and
Budget Circular A–76 for services provided by
employees (including employees serving on a
temporary or term basis) of U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services of the Department
of Homeland Security who are known as Im-
migration Information Officers, Immigration
Service Analysts, Contact Representatives,
Investigative Assistants, or Immigration
Services Officers.
SEC. 404. (a) Notwithstanding section
1356(n) of title 8, United States Code, of the
funds deposited into the Immigration Exami-
nations Fee Account, up to $10,000,000 may be
allocated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigra-
tion Services in fiscal year 2019 for the pur-
pose of providing an Immigrant Integration
grants program.
(b) None of the funds made available to
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
for grants for immigrant integration under
subsection (a) may be used to provide serv-
ices to aliens who have not been lawfully ad-
mitted for permanent residence.
SEC. 405. The Director of the Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers is authorized
to distribute funds to Federal law enforce-
ment agencies for expenses incurred partici-
pating in training accreditation.
SEC. 406. The Federal Law Enforcement
Training Accreditation Board, including rep-
resentatives from the Federal law enforce-
ment community and non-Federal accredita-
tion experts involved in law enforcement
training, shall lead the Federal law enforce-
ment training accreditation process to con-
tinue the implementation of measuring and
assessing the quality and effectiveness of
Federal law enforcement training programs,
facilities, and instructors.
SEC. 407. The Director of the Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers may accept
transfers to the account established by sec-
tion 407(a) of division F of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141)
from Government agencies requesting the
construction of special use facilities, as au-
thorized by the Economy Act (31 U.S.C.
1535(b)): Provided, That the Federal Law En-
forcement Training Centers maintain admin-
istrative control and ownership upon com-
pletion of such facilities.
SEC. 408. The functions of the Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers instructor
staff shall be classified as inherently govern-
mental for the purpose of the Federal Activi-
ties Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (31 U.S.C.
501 note).
SEC. 409. Up to $15,000,000 in unexpended
balances of appropriations made by division
F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2018 (Public Law 115–141) under the heading
‘‘Science and Technology—Operations and
Support’’ may be transferred to the United
States Department of Agriculture for the
purpose of contract support of the operations
of the National Bio and Agro-defense Facil-
ity.
TITLE V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS AND RESCISSIONS OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 501. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 502. Subject to the requirements of
section 503 of this Act, the unexpended bal-
ances of prior appropriations provided for ac-
tivities in this Act may be transferred to ap-
propriation accounts for such activities es-
tablished pursuant to this Act, may be
merged with funds in the applicable estab-
lished accounts, and thereafter may be ac-
counted for as one fund for the same time pe-
riod as originally enacted.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S380 January 22, 2019
SEC. 503. (a) None of the funds provided by
this Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the components in or transferred to
the Department of Homeland Security that
remain available for obligation or expendi-
ture in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any
accounts in the Treasury of the United
States derived by the collection of fees avail-
able to the components funded by this Act,
shall be available for obligation or expendi-
ture through a reprogramming of funds
that—
(1) creates or eliminates a program,
project, or activity, or increases funds for
any program, project, or activity for which
funds have been denied or restricted by the
Congress;
(2) contracts out any function or activity
presently performed by Federal employees or
any new function or activity proposed to be
performed by Federal employees in the
President’s budget proposal for fiscal year
2019 for the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity;
(3) augments funding for existing pro-
grams, projects, or activities in excess of
$5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
(4) reduces funding for any program,
project, or activity, or numbers of personnel,
by 10 percent or more; or
(5) results from any general savings from a
reduction in personnel that would result in a
change in funding levels for programs,
projects, or activities as approved by the
Congress.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate
and the House of Representatives are noti-
fied at least 15 days in advance of such re-
programming.
(c) Up to 5 percent of any appropriation
made available for the current fiscal year for
the Department of Homeland Security by
this Act or provided by previous appropria-
tions Acts may be transferred between such
appropriations if the Committees on Appro-
priations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives are notified at least 30 days
in advance of such transfer, but no such ap-
propriation, except as otherwise specifically
provided, shall be increased by more than 10
percent by such transfer.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b),
and (c), no funds shall be reprogrammed
within or transferred between appropriations
based upon an initial notification provided
after June 30, except in extraordinary cir-
cumstances that imminently threaten the
safety of human life or the protection of
property.
(e) The notification thresholds and proce-
dures set forth in subsections (a), (b), (c), and
(d) shall apply to any use of deobligated bal-
ances of funds provided in previous Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Appropriations
Acts.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security may transfer to
the fund established by 8 U.S.C. 1101 note, up
to $20,000,000 from appropriations available
to the Department of Homeland Security:
Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate
and the House of Representatives at least 5
days in advance of such transfer.
SEC. 504. Section 504 of the Department of
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2017
(division F of Public Law 115–31), related to
the operations of a working capital fund,
shall apply with respect to funds made avail-
able in this Act in the same manner as such
section applied to funds made available in
that Act.
SEC. 505. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019, as recorded in the
financial records at the time of a reprogram-
ming notification, but not later than June
30, 2020, from appropriations for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for fiscal year 2019 in this Act
shall remain available through September
30, 2020, in the account and for the purposes
for which the appropriations were provided:
Provided, That prior to the obligation of such
funds, a notification shall be submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives in
accordance with section 503 of this Act.
SEC. 506. Funds made available by this Act
for intelligence activities are deemed to be
specifically authorized by the Congress for
purposes of section 504 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal
year 2019 until the enactment of an Act au-
thorizing intelligence activities for fiscal
year 2019.
SEC. 507. (a) The Secretary of Homeland
Security, or the designee of the Secretary,
shall notify the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives at least 3 full business days in
advance of—
(1) making or awarding a grant allocation,
grant, contract, other transaction agree-
ment, or task or delivery order on a Depart-
ment of Homeland Security multiple award
contract, or to issue a letter of intent total-
ing in excess of $1,000,000;
(2) awarding a task or delivery order re-
quiring an obligation of funds in an amount
greater than $10,000,000 from multi-year De-
partment of Homeland Security funds;
(3) making a sole-source grant award; or
(4) announcing publicly the intention to
make or award items under paragraph (1),
(2), or (3), including a contract covered by
the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b) If the Secretary of Homeland Security
determines that compliance with this sec-
tion would pose a substantial risk to human
life, health, or safety, an award may be made
without notification, and the Secretary shall
notify the Committees on Appropriations of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
not later than 5 full business days after such
an award is made or letter issued.
(c) A notification under this section—
(1) may not involve funds that are not
available for obligation; and
(2) shall include the amount of the award;
the fiscal year for which the funds for the
award were appropriated; the type of con-
tract; and the account from which the funds
are being drawn.
SEC. 508. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no agency shall purchase, con-
struct, or lease any additional facilities, ex-
cept within or contiguous to existing loca-
tions, to be used for the purpose of con-
ducting Federal law enforcement training
without advance notification to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the Senate and the
House of Representatives, except that the
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
is authorized to obtain the temporary use of
additional facilities by lease, contract, or
other agreement for training that cannot be
accommodated in existing Centers facilities.
SEC. 509. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used for expenses for any construction, re-
pair, alteration, or acquisition project for
which a prospectus otherwise required under
chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, has
not been approved, except that necessary
funds may be expended for each project for
required expenses for the development of a
proposed prospectus.
SEC. 510. Sections 520, 522, and 530 of the
Department of Homeland Security Appro-
priations Act, 2008 (division E of Public Law
110–161; 121 Stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply
with respect to funds made available in this
Act in the same manner as such sections ap-
plied to funds made available in that Act.
SEC. 511. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
the applicable provisions of the Buy Amer-
ican Act: Provided, That for purposes of the
preceding sentence, the term ‘‘Buy American
Act’’ means chapter 83 of title 41, United
States Code.
SEC. 512. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to amend the oath of
allegiance required by section 337 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1448).
SEC. 513. None of the funds provided or oth-
erwise made available in this Act shall be
available to carry out section 872 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 452)
unless explicitly authorized by the Congress.
SEC. 514. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for planning, test-
ing, piloting, or developing a national identi-
fication card.
SEC. 515. Any official that is required by
this Act to report or to certify to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
the House of Representatives may not dele-
gate such authority to perform that act un-
less specifically authorized herein.
SEC. 516. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to transfer, release,
or assist in the transfer or release to or with-
in the United States, its territories, or pos-
sessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any
other detainee who—
(1) is not a United States citizen or a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009,
at the United States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of De-
fense.
SEC. 517. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for first-class travel
by the employees of agencies funded by this
Act in contravention of sections 301–10.122
through 301–10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 518. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to employ workers
described in section 274A(h)(3) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1324a(h)(3)).
SEC. 519. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, none of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be used to pay award or incentive
fees for contractor performance that has
been judged to be below satisfactory per-
formance or performance that does not meet
the basic requirements of a contract.
SEC. 520. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used by the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity to enter into any Federal contract un-
less such contract is entered into in accord-
ance with the requirements of subtitle I of
title 41, United States Code, or chapter 137 of
title 10, United States Code, and the Federal
Acquisition Regulation, unless such contract
is otherwise authorized by statute to be en-
tered into without regard to the above ref-
erenced statutes.
SEC. 521. (a) For an additional amount for
financial systems modernization, $39,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2020.
(b) Funds made available in subsection (a)
for financial systems modernization may be
transferred by the Secretary of Homeland
Security between appropriations for the
same purpose, notwithstanding section 503 of
this Act.
(c) No transfer described in subsection (b)
shall occur until 15 days after the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the Senate and the
House of Representatives are notified of such
transfer.
SEC. 522. (a) The funds appropriated to the
Department of Homeland Security in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S381
January 22, 2019
Act for ‘‘Operations and Support’’ shall be
hereby reduced, as determined by the Chief
Financial Officer, by a total of $39,000,000 to
realize administrative savings, including
savings from requirements, supplies, or ma-
terials that were funded by the Department
using fiscal year 2018 appropriations for con-
tracts with periods of performance in fiscal
year 2019.
(b) Funds may only be reduced for the re-
spective appropriations from amounts iden-
tified in the budget appendix, as modified by
the report accompanying this Act, by object
classes 25.1, 25.2, 25.3, and 26.2.
(c) No funds may be reduced from amounts
provided under the following headings and
activities:
(1) ‘‘Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Se-
curity Agency—Operations and Support’’;
(2) ‘‘Coast Guard—Operations and Sup-
port’’ for defense-related activities; and
(3) ‘‘Federal Emergency Management
Agency—Operations and Support’’ for Na-
tional Continuity Programs in the Prepared-
ness and Protection program, project, and
activity.
(d) No amounts may be reduced from
amounts that were designated by the Con-
gress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism or as an emergency
requirement pursuant to a concurrent reso-
lution on the budget or section 251(b)(2)(A) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 or from amounts that
were designated by the Congress as being for
disaster relief pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
(e) The Secretary shall submit a notifica-
tion to the Committees on Appropriations of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
specifying the account and amount of each
reduction made pursuant to this section.
SEC. 523. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 524. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by a Federal law en-
forcement officer to facilitate the transfer of
an operable firearm to an individual if the
Federal law enforcement officer knows or
suspects that the individual is an agent of a
drug cartel unless law enforcement personnel
of the United States continuously monitor
or control the firearm at all times.
SEC. 525. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to pay for the travel
to or attendance of more than 50 employees
of a single component of the Department of
Homeland Security, who are stationed in the
United States, at a single international con-
ference unless the Secretary of Homeland
Security, or a designee, determines that such
attendance is in the national interest and
notifies the Committees on Appropriations
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives within at least 10 days of that deter-
mination and the basis for that determina-
tion: Provided, That for purposes of this sec-
tion the term ‘‘international conference’’
shall mean a conference occurring outside of
the United States attended by representa-
tives of the United States Government and
of foreign governments, international orga-
nizations, or nongovernmental organiza-
tions: Provided further, That the total cost to
the Department of Homeland Security of any
such conference shall not exceed $500,000.
SEC. 526. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to reimburse any
Federal department or agency for its partici-
pation in a National Special Security Event.
SEC. 527. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Homeland Security by
this or any other Act may be obligated for
any structural pay reform that affects more
than 100 full-time positions or costs more
than $5,000,000 in a single year before the end
of the 30-day period beginning on the date on
which the Secretary of Homeland Security
submits to Congress a notification that in-
cludes—
(1) the number of full-time positions af-
fected by such change;
(2) funding required for such change for the
current year and through the Future Years
Homeland Security Program;
(3) justification for such change; and
(4) an analysis of compensation alter-
natives to such change that were considered
by the Department.
SEC. 528. (a) Any agency receiving funds
made available in this Act shall, subject to
subsections (b) and (c), post on the public
website of that agency any report required
to be submitted by the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives in this Act, upon the deter-
mination by the head of the agency that it
shall serve the national interest.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a re-
port if—
(1) the public posting of the report com-
promises homeland or national security; or
(2) the report contains proprietary infor-
mation.
(c) The head of the agency posting such re-
port shall do so only after such report has
been made available to the Committees on
Appropriations of the Senate and the House
of Representatives for not less than 45 days
except as otherwise specified in law.
SEC. 529. (a) Funding provided in this Act
for ‘‘Operations and Support’’ may be used
for minor procurement, construction, and
improvements.
(b) For purposes of subsection (a), ‘‘minor’’
refers to end items with a unit cost of
$250,000 or less for personal property, and
$2,000,000 or less for real property.
SEC. 530. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
SEC. 531. For fiscal year 2019, the Secretary
of Homeland Security may provide, out of
discretionary funds available to the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, for the primary
and secondary schooling of dependents of De-
partment of Homeland Security personnel
who are stationed outside the continental
United States and for the transportation of
such dependents in the same manner and to
the same extent that, pursuant to section 544
of title 14, United States Code, the Secretary
may provide, out of funds appropriated to or
for the use of the Coast Guard, for the pri-
mary and secondary schooling of, and the
transportation of, dependents of Coast Guard
personnel stationed outside the continental
United States: Provided, That no amounts
may be provided from amounts that were
designated by the Congress for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism or as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to a concurrent resolution on the
budget or section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That no amounts
may be provided from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as being for dis-
aster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 532. Within 60 days of any budget sub-
mission for the Department of Homeland Se-
curity for fiscal year 2020 that assumes reve-
nues or proposes a reduction from the pre-
vious year based on user fees proposals that
have not been enacted into law prior to the
submission of the budget, the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall provide the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
the House of Representatives specific reduc-
tions in proposed discretionary budget au-
thority commensurate with the revenues as-
sumed in such proposals in the event that
they are not enacted prior to October 1, 2019.
(RESCISSION)
SEC. 533. Of the funds appropriated to the
Department of Homeland Security the fol-
lowing funds are hereby rescinded from the
following accounts and programs in the spec-
ified amounts: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to a concurrent reso-
lution on the budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(Public Law 99–177):
(1) $17,471,912 from Public Law 115–31 under
the heading ‘‘Coast Guard—Research, Devel-
opment, Test, and Evaluation’’;
(2) $20,971,000 from Public Law 115–141
under the heading ‘‘Domestic Nuclear Detec-
tion Office—Federal Assistance’’;
(3) $4,000,000 from Public Law 115–141 under
the heading ‘‘Transportation Security Ad-
ministration—Operations and Support’’.
(RESCISSION)
SEC. 534. The following unobligated bal-
ances made available to the Department of
Homeland Security pursuant to section 505
of the Department of Homeland Security Ap-
propriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141)
are rescinded:
(1) $243,869 from ‘‘Management Direc-
torate—Operations and Support’’;
(2) $169,357 from ‘‘Office of the Secretary
and Executive Management—Operations and
Support’’;
(3) $366,053 from ‘‘Intelligence, Analysis,
and Operations Coordination—Operations
and Support’’;
(4) $427,889 from ‘‘Customs and Border Pro-
tection—Operations and Support’’;
(5) $15,416 from ‘‘Coast Guard—Operating
Expenses’’;
(6) $303 from ‘‘Coast Guard—Reserve Train-
ing’’;
(7) $740,124 from ‘‘Coast Guard—Acquisi-
tion, Construction, and Improvements’’;
(8) $2,583,368 from ‘‘United States Secret
Service—Operations and Support’’;
(9) $181,187 from ‘‘Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency—Operations and Support’’;
(10) $362,942 from ‘‘Office of Health Af-
fairs—Operations and Support’’;
(11) $206,633 from ‘‘United States Citizen-
ship and Immigration Services—Operations
and Support’’;
(12) $31,941 from ‘‘Science and Technology
Directorate—Operations and Support’’;
(13) $437,550 from ‘‘Domestic Nuclear Detec-
tion Office—Operations Support’’.
SEC. 535. From the unobligated balances
available in the Department of the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund established by section 9703
of title 31, United States Code (added by sec-
tion 638 of Public Law 102–393), $120,000,000
shall be permanently rescinded not later
than September 30, 2019.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Appropriations
Act, 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S382 January 22, 2019
DIVISION E—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT OF LANDS AND RESOURCES
For necessary expenses for protection, use,
improvement, development, disposal, cadas-
tral surveying, classification, acquisition of
easements and other interests in lands, and
performance of other functions, including
maintenance of facilities, as authorized by
law, in the management of lands and their
resources under the jurisdiction of the Bu-
reau of Land Management, including the
general administration of the Bureau, and
assessment of mineral potential of public
lands pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public
Law 96–487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $1,198,000,000, to
remain available until expended, including
all such amounts as are collected from per-
mit processing fees, as authorized but made
subject to future appropriation by section
35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 191), except that amounts from permit
processing fees may be used for any bureau-
related expenses associated with the proc-
essing of oil and gas applications for permits
to drill and related use of authorizations.
In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law
Administration program operations, includ-
ing the cost of administering the mining
claim fee program, to remain available until
expended, to be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Bureau and credited to this ap-
propriation from mining claim maintenance
fees and location fees that are hereby au-
thorized for fiscal year 2019, so as to result in
a final appropriation estimated at not more
than $1,198,000,000, and $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, from communica-
tion site rental fees established by the Bu-
reau for the cost of administering commu-
nication site activities.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tions 205, 206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94–579,
including administrative expenses and acqui-
sition of lands or waters, or interests there-
in, $28,316,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for Land Acquisition and de-
rived from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, $1,800,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded from previously appropriated emer-
gencies, hardships, and inholdings funding:
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded
from amounts that were designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Concurrent Resolution on the
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OREGON AND CALIFORNIA GRANT LANDS
For expenses necessary for management,
protection, and development of resources and
for construction, operation, and mainte-
nance of access roads, reforestation, and
other improvements on the revested Oregon
and California Railroad grant lands, on other
Federal lands in the Oregon and California
land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adja-
cent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands
or interests therein, including existing con-
necting roads on or adjacent to such grant
lands; $106,985,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the
aggregate of all receipts during the current
fiscal year from the revested Oregon and
California Railroad grant lands is hereby
made a charge against the Oregon and Cali-
fornia land-grant fund and shall be trans-
ferred to the General Fund in the Treasury
in accordance with the second paragraph of
subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August
28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).
RANGE IMPROVEMENTS
For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisi-
tion of lands and interests therein, and im-
provement of Federal rangelands pursuant to
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), not-
withstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50
percent of all moneys received during the
prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of
the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m)
and the amount designated for range im-
provements from grazing fees and mineral
leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands
transferred to the Department of the Inte-
rior pursuant to law, but not less than
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000
shall be available for administrative ex-
penses.
SERVICE CHARGES, DEPOSITS, AND FORFEITURES
For administrative expenses and other
costs related to processing application docu-
ments and other authorizations for use and
disposal of public lands and resources, for
costs of providing copies of official public
land documents, for monitoring construc-
tion, operation, and termination of facilities
in conjunction with use authorizations, and
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such
amounts as may be collected under Public
Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 185), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of
Public Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any
moneys that have been or will be received
pursuant to that section, whether as a result
of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if
not appropriate for refund pursuant to sec-
tion 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)),
shall be available and may be expended
under the authority of this Act by the Sec-
retary to improve, protect, or rehabilitate
any public lands administered through the
Bureau of Land Management which have
been damaged by the action of a resource de-
veloper, purchaser, permittee, or any unau-
thorized person, without regard to whether
all moneys collected from each such action
are used on the exact lands damaged which
led to the action: Provided further, That any
such moneys that are in excess of amounts
needed to repair damage to the exact land
for which funds were collected may be used
to repair other damaged public lands.
MISCELLANEOUS TRUST FUNDS
In addition to amounts authorized to be
expended under existing laws, there is hereby
appropriated such amounts as may be con-
tributed under section 307 of Public Law 94–
579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may
be advanced for administrative costs, sur-
veys, appraisals, and costs of making con-
veyances of omitted lands under section
211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to re-
main available until expended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Land Management may
carry out the operations funded under this
Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants,
cooperative agreements and reimbursable
agreements with public and private entities,
including with States. Appropriations for the
Bureau shall be available for purchase, erec-
tion, and dismantlement of temporary struc-
tures, and alteration and maintenance of
necessary buildings and appurtenant facili-
ties to which the United States has title; up
to $100,000 for payments, at the discretion of
the Secretary, for information or evidence
concerning violations of laws administered
by the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency
expenses of enforcement activities author-
ized or approved by the Secretary and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding Public Law 90–620 (44 U.S.C.
501), the Bureau may, under cooperative
cost-sharing and partnership arrangements
authorized by law, procure printing services
from cooperators in connection with jointly
produced publications for which the coopera-
tors share the cost of printing either in cash
or in services, and the Bureau determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
projects to be funded pursuant to a written
commitment by a State government to pro-
vide an identified amount of money in sup-
port of the project may be carried out by the
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropria-
tions herein made shall not be available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau
or its contractors or for the sale of wild
horses and burros that results in their de-
struction for processing into commercial
products.
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, as author-
ized by law, and for scientific and economic
studies, general administration, and for the
performance of other authorized functions
related to such resources, $1,292,078,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $18,318,000 shall be
used for implementing subsections (a), (b),
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for
processing petitions, developing and issuing
proposed and final regulations, and taking
any other steps to implement actions de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or
(c)(2)(B)(ii)).
CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For construction, improvement, acquisi-
tion, or removal of buildings and other fa-
cilities required in the conservation, man-
agement, investigation, protection, and uti-
lization of fish and wildlife resources, and
the acquisition of lands and interests there-
in; $55,613,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
Of the unobligated balances available for
Construction, $1,500,000 is permanently re-
scinded, including $300,000 of unobligated bal-
ances available for Construction under Pub-
lic Law 111–8: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
LAND ACQUISITION
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of land or waters, or interest there-
in, in accordance with statutory authority
applicable to the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, $65,189,000, to be derived
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and to remain available until expended, of
which, notwithstanding section 200306 of
title 54, United States Code, not more than
$20,000,000 shall be for land conservation
partnerships authorized by the Highlands
Conservation Act of 2004, including not to ex-
ceed $320,000 for administrative expenses:
Provided, That none of the funds appro-
priated for specific land acquisition projects
may be used to pay for any administrative
overhead, planning or other management
costs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S383
January 22, 2019
COOPERATIVE ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSERVATION FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tion 6 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973
(16 U.S.C. 1535), $53,495,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $22,695,000 is to
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered
Species Conservation Fund; and of which
$30,800,000 is to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Of the unobligated balances made available
from the Cooperative Endangered Species
Conservation Fund, $7,500,000 is permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE FUND
For expenses necessary to implement the
Act of October 17, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s),
$13,228,000.
NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION
FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of the North American Wetlands
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.),
$42,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation
Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $3,910,000, to re-
main available until expended.
MULTINATIONAL SPECIES CONSERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant Conserva-
tion Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of
1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et
seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $11,561,000,
to remain available until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL WILDLIFE GRANTS
For wildlife conservation grants to States
and to the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
and Indian tribes under the provisions of the
Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish
and Wildlife Coordination Act, for the devel-
opment and implementation of programs for
the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, in-
cluding species that are not hunted or fished,
$64,571,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided herein, $4,209,000 is for a competitive
grant program for Indian tribes not subject
to the remaining provisions of this appro-
priation: Provided further, That $6,362,000 is
for a competitive grant program to imple-
ment approved plans for States, territories,
and other jurisdictions and at the discretion
of affected States, the regional Associations
of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to
the remaining provisions of this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall, after deducting $10,571,000 and adminis-
trative expenses, apportion the amount pro-
vided herein in the following manner: (1) to
the District of Columbia and to the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal
to not more than one-half of 1 percent there-
of; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
each a sum equal to not more than one-
fourth of 1 percent thereof: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall apportion the re-
maining amount in the following manner: (1)
one-third of which is based on the ratio to
which the land area of such State bears to
the total land area of all such States; and (2)
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to
which the population of such State bears to
the total population of all such States: Pro-
vided further, That the amounts apportioned
under this paragraph shall be adjusted equi-
tably so that no State shall be apportioned a
sum which is less than 1 percent of the
amount available for apportionment under
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more
than 5 percent of such amount: Provided fur-
ther, That the Federal share of planning
grants shall not exceed 75 percent of the
total costs of such projects and the Federal
share of implementation grants shall not ex-
ceed 65 percent of the total costs of such
projects: Provided further, That the non-Fed-
eral share of such projects may not be de-
rived from Federal grant programs: Provided
further, That any amount apportioned in 2019
to any State, territory, or other jurisdiction
that remains unobligated as of September 30,
2020, shall be reapportioned, together with
funds appropriated in 2021, in the manner
provided herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
The United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice may carry out the operations of Service
programs by direct expenditure, contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements and reim-
bursable agreements with public and private
entities. Appropriations and funds available
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice shall be available for repair of damage to
public roads within and adjacent to reserva-
tion areas caused by operations of the Serv-
ice; options for the purchase of land at not to
exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident
to such public recreational uses on conserva-
tion areas as are consistent with their pri-
mary purpose; and the maintenance and im-
provement of aquaria, buildings, and other
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Serv-
ice and to which the United States has title,
and which are used pursuant to law in con-
nection with management, and investigation
of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service
may, under cooperative cost sharing and
partnership arrangements authorized by law,
procure printing services from cooperators
in connection with jointly produced publica-
tions for which the cooperators share at
least one-half the cost of printing either in
cash or services and the Service determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
the Service may accept donated aircraft as
replacements for existing aircraft: Provided
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
all fees collected for non-toxic shot review
and approval shall be deposited under the
heading ‘‘United States Fish and Wildlife
Service—Resource Management’’ and shall
be available to the Secretary, without fur-
ther appropriation, to be used for expenses of
processing of such non-toxic shot type or
coating applications and revising regulations
as necessary, and shall remain available
until expended.
Of the unobligated balances available for
grants under Public Law 109–58, title III, sub-
title G, section 384, $15,000,000 is permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
For expenses necessary for the manage-
ment, operation, and maintenance of areas
and facilities administered by the National
Park Service and for the general administra-
tion of the National Park Service,
$2,502,711,000, of which $10,032,000 for planning
and interagency coordination in support of
Everglades restoration and $135,980,000 for
maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation
projects for constructed assets and
$151,575,000 for cyclic maintenance projects
for constructed assets and cultural resources
shall remain available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That funds appropriated under
this heading in this Act are available for the
purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95–348:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 9(a) of the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission Act of 2016
(Public Law 114–196; 130 Stat. 691), $500,000 of
the funds made available under this heading
shall be provided to the organization se-
lected under section 9(b) of that Act for ex-
penditure by the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission in accord-
ance with that Act.
NATIONAL RECREATION AND PRESERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out recre-
ation programs, natural programs, cultural
programs, heritage partnership programs,
environmental compliance and review, inter-
national park affairs, and grant administra-
tion, not otherwise provided for, $64,138,000.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
National Historic Preservation Act (division
A of subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code), $102,660,000, to be derived from the
Historic Preservation Fund and to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
$13,000,000 shall be for Save America’s Treas-
ures grants for preservation of national sig-
nificant sites, structures and artifacts as au-
thorized by section 7303 of the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 (54 U.S.C.
3089): Provided, That an individual Save
America’s Treasures grant shall be matched
by non-Federal funds: Provided further, That
individual projects shall only be eligible for
one grant: Provided further, That all projects
to be funded shall be approved by the Sec-
retary of the Interior in consultation with
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That of the funds
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund,
$750,000 is for competitive grants for the sur-
vey and nomination of properties to the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places and as Na-
tional Historic Landmarks associated with
communities currently under-represented, as
determined by the Secretary, $14,500,000 is
for competitive grants to preserve the sites
and stories of the Civil Rights movement,
$8,000,000 is for grants to Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, and $5,000,000 is for
competitive grants for the restoration of his-
toric properties of national, State and local
significance listed on or eligible for inclusion
on the National Register of Historic Places,
to be made without imposing the usage or di-
rect grant restrictions of section 101(e)(3) (54
U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical
Preservation Act: Provided further, That such
competitive grants shall be made without
imposing the matching requirements in sec-
tion 302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States
Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined
in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian
organizations, local governments, including
Certified Local Governments, and non-profit
organizations.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvements, repair, or
replacement of physical facilities, and com-
pliance and planning for programs and areas
administered by the National Park Service,
$364,704,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for any project ini-
tially funded in fiscal year 2019 with a future
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S384 January 22, 2019
phase indicated in the National Park Service
5-Year Line Item Construction Plan, a single
procurement may be issued which includes
the full scope of the project: Provided further,
That the solicitation and contract shall con-
tain the clause availability of funds found at
48 CFR 52.232–18: Provided further, That Na-
tional Park Service Donations, Park Conces-
sions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees
may be made available for the cost of adjust-
ments and changes within the original scope
of effort for projects funded by the National
Park Service Construction appropriation:
Provided further, That the Secretary of the
Interior shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations, in accordance with cur-
rent reprogramming thresholds, prior to
making any charges authorized by this sec-
tion.
LAND ACQUISITION AND STATE ASSISTANCE
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of lands or waters, or interest
therein, in accordance with the statutory au-
thority applicable to the National Park
Service, $168,444,000, to be derived from the
Land and Water Conservation Fund and to
remain available until expended, of which
$124,006,000 is for the State assistance pro-
gram and of which $10,000,000 shall be for the
American Battlefield Protection Program
grants as authorized by chapter 3081 of title
54, United States Code.
CENTENNIAL CHALLENGE
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of section 101701 of title 54, United
States Code, relating to challenge cost share
agreements, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for Centennial Challenge
projects and programs: Provided, That not
less than 50 percent of the total cost of each
project or program shall be derived from
non-Federal sources in the form of donated
cash, assets, or a pledge of donation guaran-
teed by an irrevocable letter of credit.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
In addition to other uses set forth in sec-
tion 101917(c)(2) of title 54, United States
Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-ac-
count shall be available for expenditure by
the Secretary, without further appropria-
tion, for use at any unit within the National
Park System to extinguish or reduce liabil-
ity for Possessory Interest or leasehold sur-
render interest. Such funds may only be used
for this purpose to the extent that the bene-
fitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts
over the term of the contract at that unit
exceed the amount of funds used to extin-
guish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at
the benefitting unit shall be credited to the
sub-account of the originating unit over a
period not to exceed the term of a single con-
tract at the benefitting unit, in the amount
of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce
liability.
For the costs of administration of the
Land and Water Conservation Fund grants
authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf
of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (Pub-
lic Law 109–432), the National Park Service
may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts
which are authorized to be disbursed under
such section, such retained amounts to re-
main available until expended.
National Park Service funds may be trans-
ferred to the Federal Highway Administra-
tion (FHWA), Department of Transportation,
for purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204.
Transfers may include a reasonable amount
for FHWA administrative support costs.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary for the United
States Geological Survey to perform sur-
veys, investigations, and research covering
topography, geology, hydrology, biology, and
the mineral and water resources of the
United States, its territories and posses-
sions, and other areas as authorized by 43
U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to
their mineral and water resources; give engi-
neering supervision to power permittees and
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission li-
censees; administer the minerals exploration
program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct inquiries
into the economic conditions affecting min-
ing and materials processing industries (30
U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and
related purposes as authorized by law; and to
publish and disseminate data relative to the
foregoing activities; $1,160,596,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020; of which
$84,337,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for satellite operations; and of which
$15,164,000 shall be available until expended
for deferred maintenance and capital im-
provement projects that exceed $100,000 in
cost: Provided, That none of the funds pro-
vided for the ecosystem research activity
shall be used to conduct new surveys on pri-
vate property, unless specifically authorized
in writing by the property owner: Provided
further, That no part of this appropriation
shall be used to pay more than one-half the
cost of topographic mapping or water re-
sources data collection and investigations
carried on in cooperation with States and
municipalities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
From within the amount appropriated for
activities of the United States Geological
Survey such sums as are necessary shall be
available for contracting for the furnishing
of topographic maps and for the making of
geophysical or other specialized surveys
when it is administratively determined that
such procedures are in the public interest;
construction and maintenance of necessary
buildings and appurtenant facilities; acquisi-
tion of lands for gauging stations, observa-
tion wells, and seismic equipment; expenses
of the United States National Committee for
Geological Sciences; and payment of com-
pensation and expenses of persons employed
by the Survey duly appointed to represent
the United States in the negotiation and ad-
ministration of interstate compacts: Pro-
vided, That activities funded by appropria-
tions herein made may be accomplished
through the use of contracts, grants, or coop-
erative agreements as defined in section 6302
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That the United States Geological Sur-
vey may enter into contracts or cooperative
agreements directly with individuals or indi-
rectly with institutions or nonprofit organi-
zations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for
the temporary or intermittent services of
students or recent graduates, who shall be
considered employees for the purpose of
chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States
Code, relating to compensation for travel
and work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28,
United States Code, relating to tort claims,
but shall not be considered to be Federal em-
ployees for any other purposes.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
For expenses necessary for granting and
administering leases, easements, rights-of-
way and agreements for use for oil and gas,
other minerals, energy, and marine-related
purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf and
approving operations related thereto, as au-
thorized by law; for environmental studies,
as authorized by law; for implementing other
laws and to the extent provided by Presi-
dential or Secretarial delegation; and for
matching grants or cooperative agreements,
$179,266,000, of which $129,450,000 is to remain
available until September 30, 2020, and of
which $49,816,000 is to remain available until
expended: Provided, That this total appro-
priation shall be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Secretary and credited to this
appropriation from additions to receipts re-
sulting from increases to lease rental rates
in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost re-
covery fees from activities conducted by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursu-
ant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands
Act, including studies, assessments, anal-
ysis, and miscellaneous administrative ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the sum here-
in appropriated shall be reduced as such col-
lections are received during the fiscal year,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 ap-
propriation estimated at not more than
$129,450,000: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable
expenses related to promoting volunteer
beach and marine cleanup activities.
BUREAU OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
OFFSHORE SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
For expenses necessary for the regulation
of operations related to leases, easements,
rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil
and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-
related purposes on the Outer Continental
Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and
implementing laws and regulations as au-
thorized by law and to the extent provided
by Presidential or Secretarial delegation;
and for matching grants or cooperative
agreements, $145,475,000, of which $121,351,000
is to remain available until September 30,
2020, and of which $24,124,000 is to remain
available until expended: Provided, That this
total appropriation shall be reduced by
amounts collected by the Secretary and
credited to this appropriation from additions
to receipts resulting from increases to lease
rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and
from cost recovery fees from activities con-
ducted by the Bureau of Safety and Environ-
mental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, including stud-
ies, assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous
administrative activities: Provided further,
That the sum herein appropriated shall be
reduced as such collections are received dur-
ing the fiscal year, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at
not more than $121,351,000.
For an additional amount, $41,765,000, to
remain available until expended, to be re-
duced by amounts collected by the Secretary
and credited to this appropriation, which
shall be derived from non-refundable inspec-
tion fees collected in fiscal year 2019, as pro-
vided in this Act: Provided, That to the ex-
tent that amounts realized from such inspec-
tion fees exceed $41,765,000, the amounts real-
ized in excess of $41,765,000 shall be credited
to this appropriation and remain available
until expended: Provided further, That for fis-
cal year 2019, not less than 50 percent of the
inspection fees expended by the Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement will
be used to fund personnel and mission-re-
lated costs to expand capacity and expedite
the orderly development, subject to environ-
mental safeguards, of the Outer Continental
Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), in-
cluding the review of applications for per-
mits to drill.
OIL SPILL RESEARCH
For necessary expenses to carry out title I,
section 1016, title IV, sections 4202 and 4303,
title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S385
January 22, 2019
OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND
ENFORCEMENT
REGULATION AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$115,804,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That appropria-
tions for the Office of Surface Mining Rec-
lamation and Enforcement may provide for
the travel and per diem expenses of State
and tribal personnel attending Office of Sur-
face Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
sponsored training: Provided further, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing and notwithstanding the Federal share
limits contained in section 705 of the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
(30 U.S.C. 1295), not to exceed $2,300,000 shall
be for the Secretary of the Interior to make
grants to any State with active coal mine
operations within its borders that does not
have an approved State regulatory program
under section 503 of the Surface Mining Con-
trol and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C.
1253) for the purpose of developing a State
program under such Act.
In addition, for costs to review, admin-
ister, and enforce permits issued by the Of-
fice pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95–
87 (30 U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That fees as-
sessed and collected by the Office pursuant
to such section 507 shall be credited to this
account as discretionary offsetting collec-
tions, to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as collections are received during the
fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year
2019 appropriation estimated at not more
than $115,804,000.
ABANDONED MINE RECLAMATION FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out title
IV of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$24,672,000, to be derived from receipts of the
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That pursuant to Public Law 97–365, the De-
partment of the Interior is authorized to use
up to 20 percent from the recovery of the de-
linquent debt owed to the United States Gov-
ernment to pay for contracts to collect these
debts: Provided further, That funds made
available under title IV of Public Law 95–87
may be used for any required non-Federal
share of the cost of projects funded by the
Federal Government for the purpose of envi-
ronmental restoration related to treatment
or abatement of acid mine drainage from
abandoned mines: Provided further, That such
projects must be consistent with the pur-
poses and priorities of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts provided under this head-
ing may be used for the travel and per diem
expenses of State and tribal personnel at-
tending Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement sponsored training.
In addition, $115,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for grants to States and
federally recognized Indian Tribes for rec-
lamation of abandoned mine lands and other
related activities in accordance with the
terms and conditions in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided, That such additional amount
shall be used for economic and community
development in conjunction with the prior-
ities in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30
U.S.C. 1233(a)): Provided further, That of such
additional amount, $75,000,000 shall be dis-
tributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appa-
lachian States with the greatest amount of
unfunded needs to meet the priorities de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such sec-
tion, $30,000,000 shall be distributed in equal
amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with
the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded
needs to meet such priorities, and $10,000,000
shall be for grants to federally recognized In-
dian Tribes without regard to their status as
certified or uncertified under the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
(30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of aban-
doned mine lands and other related activi-
ties in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act) and shall be used
for economic and community development in
conjunction with the priorities in section
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977: Provided further, That
such additional amount shall be allocated to
States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND BUREAU OF
INDIAN EDUCATION
OPERATION OF INDIAN PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the operation of
Indian programs, as authorized by law, in-
cluding the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921
(25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education Amend-
ments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001–2019), and the
Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25
U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,414,577,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, except as
otherwise provided herein; of which not to
exceed $8,500 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; of which not to
exceed $76,000,000 shall be for welfare assist-
ance payments: Provided, That in cases of
designated Federal disasters, the Secretary
may exceed such cap, from the amounts pro-
vided herein, to provide for disaster relief to
Indian communities affected by the disaster:
Provided further, That federally recognized
Indian tribes and tribal organizations of fed-
erally recognized Indian tribes may use their
tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare
assistance costs: Provided further, That not
to exceed $683,572,000 for school operations
costs of Bureau-funded schools and other
education programs shall become available
on July 1, 2019, and shall remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided further,
That not to exceed $55,174,000 shall remain
available until expended for housing im-
provement, road maintenance, attorney fees,
litigation support, land records improve-
ment, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, including but not
limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128
of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25
U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $82,935,000 within
and only from such amounts made available
for school operations shall be available for
administrative cost grants associated with
grants approved prior to July 1, 2019: Pro-
vided further, That any forestry funds allo-
cated to a federally recognized tribe which
remain unobligated as of September 30, 2020,
may be transferred during fiscal year 2021 to
an Indian forest land assistance account es-
tablished for the benefit of the holder of the
funds within the holder’s trust fund account:
Provided further, That any such unobligated
balances not so transferred shall expire on
September 30, 2021: Provided further, That in
order to enhance the safety of Bureau field
employees, the Bureau may use funds to pur-
chase uniforms or other identifying articles
of clothing for personnel: Provided further,
That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may ac-
cept transfers of funds from U.S. Customs
and Border Protection to supplement any
other funding available for reconstruction or
repair of roads owned by the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs as identified on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 23
U.S.C. 202(b)(1).
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 2019,
such sums as may be necessary, which shall
be available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, no
amounts made available under this heading
shall be available for transfer to another
budget account.
CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For construction, repair, improvement,
and maintenance of irrigation and power sys-
tems, buildings, utilities, and other facili-
ties, including architectural and engineering
services by contract; acquisition of lands,
and interests in lands; and preparation of
lands for farming, and for construction of
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursu-
ant to Public Law 87–483; $358,719,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amounts as may be available for
the construction of the Navajo Indian Irriga-
tion Project may be transferred to the Bu-
reau of Reclamation: Provided further, That
not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority
available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs
from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may
be used to cover the road program manage-
ment costs of the Bureau: Provided further,
That any funds provided for the Safety of
Dams program pursuant to the Act of No-
vember 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall be made
available on a nonreimbursable basis: Pro-
vided further, That for fiscal year 2019, in im-
plementing new construction, replacement
facilities construction, or facilities improve-
ment and repair project grants in excess of
$100,000 that are provided to grant schools
under Public Law 100–297, the Secretary of
the Interior shall use the Administrative and
Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for
Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as the
regulatory requirements: Provided further,
That such grants shall not be subject to sec-
tion 12.61 of title 43, Code of Federal Regula-
tions; the Secretary and the grantee shall
negotiate and determine a schedule of pay-
ments for the work to be performed: Provided
further, That in considering grant applica-
tions, the Secretary shall consider whether
such grantee would be deficient in assuring
that the construction projects conform to
applicable building standards and codes and
Federal, tribal, or State health and safety
standards as required by section 1125(b) of
title XI of Public Law 95–561 (25 U.S.C.
2005(b)), with respect to organizational and
financial management capabilities: Provided
further, That if the Secretary declines a
grant application, the Secretary shall follow
the requirements contained in section 5206(f)
of Public Law 100–297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Pro-
vided further, That any disputes between the
Secretary and any grantee concerning a
grant shall be subject to the disputes provi-
sion in section 5208(e) of Public Law 107–110
(25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): Provided further, That in
order to ensure timely completion of con-
struction projects, the Secretary may as-
sume control of a project and all funds re-
lated to the project, if, within 18 months of
the date of enactment of this Act, any grant-
ee receiving funds appropriated in this Act
or in any prior Act, has not completed the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S386 January 22, 2019
planning and design phase of the project and
commenced construction: Provided further,
That this appropriation may be reimbursed
from the Office of the Special Trustee for
American Indians appropriation for the ap-
propriate share of construction costs for
space expansion needed in agency offices to
meet trust reform implementation: Provided
further, That of the funds made available
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be de-
rived from the Indian Irrigation Fund estab-
lished by section 3211 of the WIIN Act (Pub-
lic Law 114–322; 130 Stat. 1749): Provided fur-
ther, That for funds appropriated under this
heading, the date specified in section 3216 of
Public Law 114–322 shall be applied as sub-
stituting ‘‘September 30, 2028’’ for ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2021’’.
INDIAN LAND AND WATER CLAIM SETTLEMENTS
AND MISCELLANEOUS PAYMENTS TO INDIANS
For payments and necessary administra-
tive expenses for implementation of Indian
land and water claim settlements pursuant
to Public Laws 99–264, 100–580, 101–618, 111–11,
111–291, and 114–322, and for implementation
of other land and water rights settlements,
$50,057,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary shall
make payments in such amounts as nec-
essary to satisfy the total authorized
amount for the Navajo Nation Water Rights
Trust Fund.
INDIAN GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans and in-
sured loans, $10,779,000, of which $1,455,000 is
for administrative expenses, as authorized by
the Indian Financing Act of 1974: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That these funds are
available to subsidize total loan principal,
any part of which is to be guaranteed or in-
sured, not to exceed $174,616,164.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry
out the operation of Indian programs by di-
rect expenditure, contracts, cooperative
agreements, compacts, and grants, either di-
rectly or in cooperation with States and
other organizations.
Notwithstanding Public Law 87–279 (25
U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of Indian Affairs may
contract for services in support of the man-
agement, operation, and maintenance of the
Power Division of the San Carlos Irrigation
Project.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs for central office oversight and
Executive Direction and Administrative
Services (except executive direction and ad-
ministrative services funding for Tribal Pri-
ority Allocations, regional offices, and facili-
ties operations and maintenance) shall be
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or
cooperative agreements with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs under the provisions of the In-
dian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal
Self-Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–
413).
In the event any tribe returns appropria-
tions made available by this Act to the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not
diminish the Federal Government’s trust re-
sponsibility to that tribe, or the govern-
ment-to-government relationship between
the United States and that tribe, or that
tribe’s ability to access future appropria-
tions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Education, other than the amounts pro-
vided herein for assistance to public schools
under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available
to support the operation of any elementary
or secondary school in the State of Alaska.
No funds available to the Bureau of Indian
Education shall be used to support expanded
grades for any school or dormitory beyond
the grade structure in place or approved by
the Secretary of the Interior at each school
in the Bureau of Indian Education school
system as of October 1, 1995, except that the
Secretary of the Interior may waive this pro-
hibition to support expansion of up to one
additional grade when the Secretary deter-
mines such waiver is needed to support ac-
complishment of the mission of the Bureau
of Indian Education, or more than one grade
to expand the elementary grade structure for
Bureau-funded schools with a K-2 grade
structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations
made available in this or any prior Act for
schools funded by the Bureau shall be avail-
able, in accordance with the Bureau’s fund-
ing formula, only to the schools in the Bu-
reau school system as of September 1, 1996,
and to any school or school program that
was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds
made available under this Act may not be
used to establish a charter school at a Bu-
reau-funded school (as that term is defined
in section 1141 of the Education Amendments
of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that a charter
school that is in existence on the date of the
enactment of this Act and that has operated
at a Bureau-funded school before September
1, 1999, may continue to operate during that
period, but only if the charter school pays to
the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reim-
burse the Bureau for the use of the real and
personal property (including buses and vans),
the funds of the charter school are kept sepa-
rate and apart from Bureau funds, and the
Bureau does not assume any obligation for
charter school programs of the State in
which the school is located if the charter
school loses such funding. Employees of Bu-
reau-funded schools sharing a campus with a
charter school and performing functions re-
lated to the charter school’s operation and
employees of a charter school shall not be
treated as Federal employees for purposes of
chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, including section 113 of title I of appen-
dix C of Public Law 106–113, if in fiscal year
2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect and
administrative costs pursuant to a distribu-
tion formula based on section 5(f) of Public
Law 101–301, the Secretary shall continue to
distribute indirect and administrative cost
funds to such grantee using the section 5(f)
distribution formula.
Funds available under this Act may not be
used to establish satellite locations of
schools in the Bureau school system as of
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary
may waive this prohibition in order for an
Indian tribe to provide language and cultural
immersion educational programs for non-
public schools located within the jurisdic-
tional area of the tribal government which
exclusively serve tribal members, do not in-
clude grades beyond those currently served
at the existing Bureau-funded school, pro-
vide an educational environment with educa-
tor presence and academic facilities com-
parable to the Bureau-funded school, comply
with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or State
health and safety standards, and the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act, and demonstrate
the benefits of establishing operations at a
satellite location in lieu of incurring ex-
traordinary costs, such as for transportation
or other impacts to students such as those
caused by busing students extended dis-
tances: Provided, That no funds available
under this Act may be used to fund oper-
ations, maintenance, rehabilitation, con-
struction or other facilities-related costs for
such assets that are not owned by the Bu-
reau: Provided further, That the term ‘‘sat-
ellite school’’ means a school location phys-
ically separated from the existing Bureau
school by more than 50 miles but that forms
part of the existing school in all other re-
spects.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DEPARTMENTAL OPERATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for management of
the Department of the Interior and for
grants and cooperative agreements, as au-
thorized by law, $124,673,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not to
exceed $15,000 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; and of which up
to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers
compensation payments and unemployment
compensation payments associated with the
orderly closure of the United States Bureau
of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Of-
fice of Valuation Services is to be derived
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and shall remain available until expended;
and of which $9,704,000 for Indian land, min-
eral, and resource valuation activities shall
remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds for Indian land, mineral, and re-
source valuation activities may, as needed,
be transferred to and merged with the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian
Education ‘‘Operation of Indian Programs’’
account and the Office of the Special Trustee
for American Indians ‘‘Federal Trust Pro-
grams’’ account: Provided further, That funds
made available through contracts or grants
obligated during fiscal year 2019, as author-
ized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain
available until expended by the contractor or
grantee: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$400,000 shall be made available to the com-
mission established by section 3(a) of the
Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff
Commission on Native Children Act (Public
Law 114–244; 130 Stat. 981).
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
For fiscal year 2019, up to $400,000 of the
payments authorized by chapter 69 of title
31, United States Code, may be retained for
administrative expenses of the Payments in
Lieu of Taxes Program: Provided, That the
amounts provided under this Act specifically
for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program
are the only amounts available for payments
authorized under chapter 69 of title 31,
United States Code: Provided further, That in
the event the sums appropriated for any fis-
cal year for payments pursuant to this chap-
ter are insufficient to make the full pay-
ments authorized by that chapter to all
units of local government, then the payment
to each local government shall be made pro-
portionally: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may make adjustments to payment to
individual units of local government to cor-
rect for prior overpayments or underpay-
ments: Provided further, That no payment
shall be made pursuant to that chapter to
otherwise eligible units of local government
if the computed amount of the payment is
less than $100.
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For expenses necessary for assistance to
territories under the jurisdiction of the De-
partment of the Interior and other jurisdic-
tions identified in section 104(e) of Public
Law 108–188, $100,688,000, of which: (1)
$91,240,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for territorial assistance, including
general technical assistance, maintenance
assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef ini-
tiative activities, and brown tree snake con-
trol and research; grants to the judiciary in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S387
January 22, 2019
American Samoa for compensation and ex-
penses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C.
1661(c)); grants to the Government of Amer-
ican Samoa, in addition to current local rev-
enues, for construction and support of gov-
ernmental functions; grants to the Govern-
ment of the Virgin Islands, as authorized by
law; grants to the Government of Guam, as
authorized by law; and grants to the Govern-
ment of the Northern Mariana Islands , as
authorized by law (Public Law 94–241; 90
Stat. 272); and (2) $9,448,000 shall be available
until September 30, 2020, for salaries and ex-
penses of the Office of Insular Affairs: Pro-
vided, That all financial transactions of the
territorial and local governments herein pro-
vided for, including such transactions of all
agencies or instrumentalities established or
used by such governments, may be audited
by the Government Accountability Office, at
its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That Northern Mariana Islands Cov-
enant grant funding shall be provided ac-
cording to those terms of the Agreement of
the Special Representatives on Future
United States Financial Assistance for the
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Pub-
lic Law 104–134: Provided further, That the
funds for the program of operations and
maintenance improvement are appropriated
to institutionalize routine operations and
maintenance improvement of capital infra-
structure with territorial participation and
cost sharing to be determined by the Sec-
retary based on the grantee’s commitment
to timely maintenance of its capital assets:
Provided further, That any appropriation for
disaster assistance under this heading in this
Act or previous appropriations Acts may be
used as non–Federal matching funds for the
purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).
COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION
For grants and necessary expenses,
$3,413,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2)
and 233 of the Compact of Free Association
for the Republic of Palau; and section
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association
for the Government of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99–
658 and Public Law 108–188.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
At the request of the Governor of Guam,
the Secretary may transfer discretionary
funds or mandatory funds provided under
section 104(e) of Public Law 108–188 and Pub-
lic Law 104–134, that are allocated for Guam,
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the sub-
sidy cost of direct or guaranteed loans, plus
not to exceed three percent of the amount of
the subsidy transferred for the cost of loan
administration, for the purposes authorized
by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act for construction
and repair projects in Guam, and such funds
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That such costs, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974: Provided further, That such loans or
loan guarantees may be made without regard
to the population of the area, credit else-
where requirements, and restrictions on the
types of eligible entities under the Rural
Electrification Act of 1936 and section
306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural
Development Act: Provided further, That any
funds transferred to the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall be in addition to funds other-
wise made available to make or guarantee
loans under such authorities.
OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Solicitor, $65,674,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $52,486,000.
OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL TRUSTEE FOR
AMERICAN INDIANS
FEDERAL TRUST PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the operation of trust programs for In-
dians by direct expenditure, contracts, coop-
erative agreements, compacts, and grants,
$111,540,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $19,016,000
from this or any other Act, may be available
for historical accounting: Provided, That
funds for trust management improvements
and litigation support may, as needed, be
transferred to or merged with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Edu-
cation, ‘‘Operation of Indian Programs’’ ac-
count; the Office of the Solicitor, ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account; and the Office of the
Secretary, ‘‘Departmental Operations’’ ac-
count: Provided further, That funds made
available through contracts or grants obli-
gated during fiscal year 2019, as authorized
by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975
(25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain available
until expended by the contractor or grantee:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
not be required to provide a quarterly state-
ment of performance for any Indian trust ac-
count that has not had activity for at least
15 months and has a balance of $15 or less:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
issue an annual account statement and
maintain a record of any such accounts and
shall permit the balance in each such ac-
count to be withdrawn upon the express writ-
ten request of the account holder: Provided
further, That not to exceed $50,000 is avail-
able for the Secretary to make payments to
correct administrative errors of either dis-
bursements from or deposits to Individual
Indian Money or Tribal accounts after Sep-
tember 30, 2002: Provided further, That erro-
neous payments that are recovered shall be
credited to and remain available in this ac-
count for this purpose: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall not be required to rec-
oncile Special Deposit Accounts with a bal-
ance of less than $500 unless the Office of the
Special Trustee receives proof of ownership
from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund
Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law
103–412) or any other provision of law, the
Secretary may aggregate the trust accounts
of individuals whose whereabouts are un-
known for a continuous period of at least
five years and shall not be required to gen-
erate periodic statements of performance for
the individual accounts: Provided further,
That with respect to the eighth proviso, the
Secretary shall continue to maintain suffi-
cient records to determine the balance of the
individual accounts, including any accrued
interest and income, and such funds shall re-
main available to the individual account
holders.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for fire prepared-
ness, fire suppression operations, fire science
and research, emergency rehabilitation,
fuels management activities, and rural fire
assistance by the Department of the Inte-
rior, $941,211,000, to remain available until
expended, of which not to exceed $18,427,000
shall be for the renovation or construction of
fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are
also available for repayment of advances to
other appropriation accounts from which
funds were previously transferred for such
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $189,000,000 is for fuels management
activities: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $20,470,000 is for burned area reha-
bilitation: Provided further, That persons
hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be fur-
nished subsistence and lodging without cost
from funds available from this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That notwithstanding
42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or
office of the Department of the Interior for
fire protection rendered pursuant to 42
U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United
States property, may be credited to the ap-
propriation from which funds were expended
to provide that protection, and are available
without fiscal year limitation: Provided fur-
ther, That using the amounts designated
under this title of this Act, the Secretary of
the Interior may enter into procurement
contracts, grants, or cooperative agree-
ments, for fuels management activities, and
for training and monitoring associated with
such fuels management activities on Federal
land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for ac-
tivities that benefit resources on Federal
land: Provided further, That the costs of im-
plementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That notwithstanding requirements
of the Competition in Contracting Act, the
Secretary, for purposes of fuels management
activities, may obtain maximum practicable
competition among: (1) local private, non-
profit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth Con-
servation Corps crews, Public Lands Corps
(Public Law 109–154), or related partnerships
with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups;
(3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other en-
tities that will hire or train locally a signifi-
cant percentage, defined as 50 percent or
more, of the project workforce to complete
such contracts: Provided further, That in im-
plementing this section, the Secretary shall
develop written guidance to field units to en-
sure accountability and consistent applica-
tion of the authorities provided herein: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading may be used to reimburse the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and
the National Marine Fisheries Service for
the costs of carrying out their responsibil-
ities under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and
conference, as required by section 7 of such
Act, in connection with wildland fire man-
agement activities: Provided further, That
the Secretary of the Interior may use
wildland fire appropriations to enter into
leases of real property with local govern-
ments, at or below fair market value, to con-
struct capitalized improvements for fire fa-
cilities on such leased properties, including
but not limited to fire guard stations, re-
tardant stations, and other initial attack
and fire support facilities, and to make ad-
vance payments for any such lease or for
construction activity associated with the
lease: Provided further, That the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
may authorize the transfer of funds appro-
priated for wildland fire management, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000,
between the Departments when such trans-
fers would facilitate and expedite wildland
fire management programs and projects: Pro-
vided further, That funds provided for wildfire
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S388 January 22, 2019
suppression shall be available for support of
Federal emergency response actions: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for assistance
to or through the Department of State in
connection with forest and rangeland re-
search, technical information, and assist-
ance in foreign countries, and, with the con-
currence of the Secretary of State, shall be
available to support forestry, wildland fire
management, and related natural resource
activities outside the United States and its
territories and possessions, including tech-
nical assistance, education and training, and
cooperation with United States and inter-
national organizations.
CENTRAL HAZARDOUS MATERIALS FUND
For necessary expenses of the Department
of the Interior and any of its component of-
fices and bureaus for the response action, in-
cluding associated activities, performed pur-
suant to the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), $10,010,000, to remain
available until expended.
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
AND RESTORATION
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT FUND
To conduct natural resource damage as-
sessment, restoration activities, and onshore
oil spill preparedness by the Department of
the Interior necessary to carry out the provi-
sions of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.),
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et
seq.), and 54 U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000,
to remain available until expended.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For the operation and maintenance of a de-
partmental financial and business manage-
ment system, information technology im-
provements of general benefit to the Depart-
ment, cybersecurity, and the consolidation
of facilities and operations throughout the
Department, $55,735,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this Act or any other
Act may be used to establish reserves in the
Working Capital Fund account other than
for accrued annual leave and depreciation of
equipment without prior approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided
further, That the Secretary may assess rea-
sonable charges to State, local and tribal
government employees for training services
provided by the National Indian Program
Training Center, other than training related
to Public Law 93–638: Provided further, That
the Secretary may lease or otherwise provide
space and related facilities, equipment or
professional services of the National Indian
Program Training Center to State, local and
tribal government employees or persons or
organizations engaged in cultural, edu-
cational, or recreational activities (as de-
fined in section 3306(a) of title 40, United
States Code) at the prevailing rate for simi-
lar space, facilities, equipment, or services
in the vicinity of the National Indian Pro-
gram Training Center: Provided further, That
all funds received pursuant to the two pre-
ceding provisos shall be credited to this ac-
count, shall be available until expended, and
shall be used by the Secretary for necessary
expenses of the National Indian Program
Training Center: Provided further, That the
Secretary may enter into grants and cooper-
ative agreements to support the Office of
Natural Resource Revenue’s collection and
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other
mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by
law.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION
There is hereby authorized for acquisition
from available resources within the Working
Capital Fund, aircraft which may be ob-
tained by donation, purchase or through
available excess surplus property: Provided,
That existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft.
OFFICE OF NATURAL RESOURCES REVENUE
For necessary expenses for management of
the collection and disbursement of royalties,
fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds,
and for grants and cooperative agreements,
as authorized by law, $137,505,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020; of which
$41,727,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for the purpose of mineral revenue
management activities: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law,
$15,000 shall be available for refunds of over-
payments in connection with certain Indian
leases in which the Secretary concurred with
the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed
to Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct
prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.
GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—INTRA-
BUREAU
SEC. 101. Appropriations made in this title
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
(within each bureau or office), with the ap-
proval of the Secretary, for the emergency
reconstruction, replacement, or repair of air-
craft, buildings, utilities, or other facilities
or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire,
flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes:
Provided, That no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until funds specifi-
cally made available to the Department of
the Interior for emergencies shall have been
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds
used pursuant to this section must be replen-
ished by a supplemental appropriation,
which must be requested as promptly as pos-
sible.
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—
DEPARTMENT-WIDE
SEC. 102. The Secretary may authorize the
expenditure or transfer of any no year appro-
priation in this title, in addition to the
amounts included in the budget programs of
the several agencies, for the suppression or
emergency prevention of wildland fires on or
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of
the Department of the Interior; for the emer-
gency rehabilitation of burned-over lands
under its jurisdiction; for emergency actions
related to potential or actual earthquakes,
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoid-
able causes; for contingency planning subse-
quent to actual oil spills; for response and
natural resource damage assessment activi-
ties related to actual oil spills or releases of
hazardous substances into the environment;
for the prevention, suppression, and control
of actual or potential grasshopper and Mor-
mon cricket outbreaks on lands under the ju-
risdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the
authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106–
224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclama-
tion projects under section 410 of Public Law
95–87; and shall transfer, from any no year
funds available to the Office of Surface Min-
ing Reclamation and Enforcement, such
funds as may be necessary to permit assump-
tion of regulatory authority in the event a
primacy State is not carrying out the regu-
latory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:
Provided, That appropriations made in this
title for wildland fire operations shall be
available for the payment of obligations in-
curred during the preceding fiscal year, and
for reimbursement to other Federal agencies
for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other
equipment in connection with their use for
wildland fire operations, with such reim-
bursement to be credited to appropriations
currently available at the time of receipt
thereof: Provided further, That for wildland
fire operations, no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until the Secretary
determines that funds appropriated for
‘‘wildland fire suppression’’ shall be ex-
hausted within 30 days: Provided further,
That all funds used pursuant to this section
must be replenished by a supplemental ap-
propriation, which must be requested as
promptly as possible: Provided further, That
such replenishment funds shall be used to re-
imburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from
which emergency funds were transferred.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 103. Appropriations made to the De-
partment of the Interior in this title shall be
available for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, when
authorized by the Secretary, in total amount
not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replace-
ment of motor vehicles, including specially
equipped law enforcement vehicles; hire,
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of re-
prints; payment for telephone service in pri-
vate residences in the field, when authorized
under regulations approved by the Secretary;
and the payment of dues, when authorized by
the Secretary, for library membership in so-
cieties or associations which issue publica-
tions to members only or at a price to mem-
bers lower than to subscribers who are not
members.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS, INDIAN TRUST
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 104. Appropriations made in this Act
under the headings Bureau of Indian Affairs
and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office
of the Special Trustee for American Indians
and any unobligated balances from prior ap-
propriations Acts made under the same head-
ings shall be available for expenditure or
transfer for Indian trust management and re-
form activities. Total funding for historical
accounting activities shall not exceed
amounts specifically designated in this Act
for such purpose.
REDISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS, BUREAU OF INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to redistribute any Tribal Pri-
ority Allocation funds, including tribal base
funds, to alleviate tribal funding inequities
by transferring funds to address identified,
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping
service areas or inaccurate distribution
methodologies. No tribe shall receive a re-
duction in Tribal Priority Allocation funds
of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 2019.
Under circumstances of dual enrollment,
overlapping service areas or inaccurate dis-
tribution methodologies, the 10 percent limi-
tation does not apply.
ELLIS, GOVERNORS, AND LIBERTY ISLANDS
SEC. 106. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to acquire lands, waters, or inter-
ests therein including the use of all or part
of any pier, dock, or landing within the
State of New York and the State of New Jer-
sey, for the purpose of operating and main-
taining facilities in the support of transpor-
tation and accommodation of visitors to
Ellis, Governors, and Liberty Islands, and of
other program and administrative activities,
by donation or with appropriated funds, in-
cluding franchise fees (and other monetary
consideration), or by exchange; and the Sec-
retary is authorized to negotiate and enter
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S389
January 22, 2019
into leases, subleases, concession contracts
or other agreements for the use of such fa-
cilities on such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may determine reasonable.
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF INSPECTION FEES
SEC. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary shall collect a nonrefundable inspec-
tion fee, which shall be deposited in the ‘‘Off-
shore Safety and Environmental Enforce-
ment’’ account, from the designated operator
for facilities subject to inspection under 43
U.S.C. 1348(c).
(b) Annual fees shall be collected for facili-
ties that are above the waterline, excluding
drilling rigs, and are in place at the start of
the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall
be:
(1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but
with processing equipment or gathering
lines;
(2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells,
with any combination of active or inactive
wells; and
(3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10
wells, with any combination of active or in-
active wells.
(c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed
for all inspections completed in fiscal year
2019. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall be:
(1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of 500 feet or more; and
(2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of less than 500 feet.
(d) The Secretary shall bill designated op-
erators under subsection (b) within 60 days,
with payment required within 30 days of bill-
ing. The Secretary shall bill designated oper-
ators under subsection (c) within 30 days of
the end of the month in which the inspection
occurred, with payment required within 30
days of billing.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT, REG-
ULATION AND ENFORCEMENT REORGANIZATION
SEC. 108. The Secretary of the Interior, in
order to implement a reorganization of the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regu-
lation and Enforcement, may transfer funds
among and between the successor offices and
bureaus affected by the reorganization only
in conformance with the reprogramming
guidelines described in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act).
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS FOR WILD HORSE
AND BURRO HOLDING FACILITIES
SEC. 109. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior
may enter into multiyear cooperative agree-
ments with nonprofit organizations and
other appropriate entities, and may enter
into multiyear contracts in accordance with
the provisions of section 3903 of title 41,
United States Code (except that the 5-year
term restriction in subsection (a) shall not
apply), for the long-term care and mainte-
nance of excess wild free roaming horses and
burros by such organizations or entities on
private land. Such cooperative agreements
and contracts may not exceed 10 years, sub-
ject to renewal at the discretion of the Sec-
retary.
MASS MARKING OF SALMONIDS
SEC. 110. The United States Fish and Wild-
life Service shall, in carrying out its respon-
sibilities to protect threatened and endan-
gered species of salmon, implement a system
of mass marking of salmonid stocks, in-
tended for harvest, that are released from
federally operated or federally financed
hatcheries including but not limited to fish
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead spe-
cies. Marked fish must have a visible mark
that can be readily identified by commercial
and recreational fishers.
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 111. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, during fiscal year 2019, in car-
rying out work involving cooperation with
State, local, and tribal governments or any
political subdivision thereof, Indian Affairs
may record obligations against accounts re-
ceivable from any such entities, except that
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year
shall not exceed total budgetary resources
available at the end of the fiscal year.
HUMANE TRANSFER OF EXCESS ANIMALS
SEC. 112. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior
may transfer excess wild horses or burros
that have been removed from the public
lands to other Federal, State, and local gov-
ernment agencies for use as work animals:
Provided, That the Secretary may make any
such transfer immediately upon request of
such Federal, State, or local government
agency: Provided further, That any excess
animal transferred under this provision shall
lose its status as a wild free-roaming horse
or burro as defined in the Wild Free-Roaming
Horses and Burros Act: Provided further, That
any Federal, State, or local government
agency receiving excess wild horses or burros
as authorized in this section shall not: de-
stroy the horses or burros in a way that re-
sults in their destruction into commercial
products; sell or otherwise transfer the
horses or burros in a way that results in
their destruction for processing into com-
mercial products; or euthanize the horses or
burros except upon the recommendation of a
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe in-
jury, illness, or advanced age.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR EXPERIENCED
SERVICES PROGRAM
SEC. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law relating to Federal grants
and cooperative agreements, the Secretary
of the Interior is authorized to make grants
to, or enter into cooperative agreements
with, private nonprofit organizations des-
ignated by the Secretary of Labor under title
V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to uti-
lize the talents of older Americans in pro-
grams authorized by other provisions of law
administered by the Secretary and con-
sistent with such provisions of law.
(b) Prior to awarding any grant or agree-
ment under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall ensure that the agreement would not—
(1) result in the displacement of individ-
uals currently employed by the Department,
including partial displacement through re-
duction of non-overtime hours, wages, or em-
ployment benefits;
(2) result in the use of an individual under
the Department of the Interior Experienced
Services Program for a job or function in a
case in which a Federal employee is in a lay-
off status from the same or substantially
equivalent job within the Department; or
(3) affect existing contracts for services.
CONTRIBUTION AUTHORITY
SEC. 114. Section 113 of Division G of Public
Law 113–76 is amended by striking ‘‘2019,’’
and inserting ‘‘2024,’’.
INDIANA DUNES NATIONAL LAKESHORE RE-
TITLED; PAUL H. DOUGLAS TRAIL REDESIGNA-
TION
SEC. 115. (a) INDIANA DUNES NATIONAL LAKE
SHORE RETITLED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Public Law 89–761 (16
U.S.C. 460u et seq.) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘National Lakeshore’’ and
‘‘national lakeshore’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘National Park’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘lakeshore’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘Park’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION.—The amendment
made by subsection (a)(1) shall not apply
to—
(A) the title of the map referred to in the
first section of Public Law 89–761 (16 U.S.C.
460u); and
(B) the title of the maps referred to in sec-
tion 4 of Public Law 89–761 (16 U.S.C. 460u–3).
(b) PAUL H. DOUGLAS TRAIL REDESIGNA-
TION.—The 1.6 mile trail within the Indiana
Dunes National Park designated the ‘‘Miller-
Woods Trail’’ is hereby redesignated as the
‘‘Paul H. Douglas Trail’’.
PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES (PILT)
SEC. 116. Section 6906 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2019’’.
TECHNICAL CORRECTION
SEC. 117. Division II of Public Law 104–333
(54 U.S.C. 320101 note), as amended by section
116(b)(2) of Public Law 114–113, is amended in
each of sections 208, 310, and 607, by striking
‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2019’’.
DESIGNATION OF PETER B. WEBSTER III
MEMORIAL AREA
SEC. 118. (a)(1) The rest area bound by Al-
exandria Avenue, West Boulevard Drive, and
the George Washington Memorial Parkway
on the Mount Vernon Trail within the
George Washington Memorial Parkway is
designated as the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Me-
morial Area’’.
(2) Any reference in a law, map, regulation,
document, paper, or other record of the
United States to the rest area described in
paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a ref-
erence to the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Memorial
Area’’.
(b)(1) A plaque honoring Peter B. Webster
III may be installed at the Peter B. Webster
III Memorial Area on a signpost, bench, or
other appropriate structure, on the condition
that the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice shall approve the design and placement
of the plaque.
(2) No Federal funds may be used to design,
procure, prepare, or install the plaque au-
thorized under paragraph (1).
(3) The Secretary of the Interior may ac-
cept and expend private contributions for the
design, procurement, preparation, and instal-
lation of the plaque authorized under para-
graph (1).
OBLIGATION OF FUNDS
SEC. 119. Amounts appropriated by this Act
to the Department of the Interior shall be
available for obligation and expenditure not
later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SAGE-GROUSE
SEC. 120. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used by the
Secretary of the Interior to write or issue
pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)—
(1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse
(Centrocercus urophasianus);
(2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin
distinct population segment of greater sage-
grouse.
TITLE II
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For science and technology, including re-
search and development activities, which
shall include research and development ac-
tivities under the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980; necessary expenses for per-
sonnel and related costs and travel expenses;
procurement of laboratory equipment and
supplies; and other operating expenses in
support of research and development,
$717,723,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That of the funds
included under this heading, $5,000,000 shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S390 January 22, 2019
be for Research: National Priorities as speci-
fied in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act): Provided further,
That of the unobligated balances from appro-
priations made available under this heading,
$11,250,000 are permanently rescinded: Pro-
vided further, That no amounts may be re-
scinded pursuant to the preceding proviso
from amounts made available in the first
proviso for Research: National Priorities.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For environmental programs and manage-
ment, including necessary expenses, not oth-
erwise provided for, for personnel and related
costs and travel expenses; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and oper-
ation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; li-
brary memberships in societies or associa-
tions which issue publications to members
only or at a price to members lower than to
subscribers who are not members; adminis-
trative costs of the brownfields program
under the Small Business Liability Relief
and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002;
implementation of a coal combustion resid-
ual permit program under section 2301 of the
Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to ex-
ceed $9,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,658,200,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That of the funds included under this
heading, $15,000,000 shall be for Environ-
mental Protection: National Priorities as
specified in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act): Provided
further, That of the funds included under this
heading, $456,958,000 shall be for Geographic
Programs specified in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided further, That of the unobli-
gated balances from appropriations made
available under this heading, $60,201,000 are
permanently rescinded: Provided further,
That no amounts may be rescinded pursuant
to the preceding proviso from amounts made
available in the first proviso for Environ-
mental Protection: National Priorities, from
amounts made available in the second pro-
viso for Geographic Programs, or from the
National Estuary Program (33 U.S.C. 1330).
In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available
until expended, for necessary expenses of ac-
tivities described in section 26(b)(1) of the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.
2625(b)(1)): Provided, That fees collected pur-
suant to that section of that Act and depos-
ited in the ‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as dis-
cretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year
2019 shall be retained and used for necessary
salaries and expenses in this appropriation
and shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated in this paragraph from the general
fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced by
the amount of discretionary offsetting re-
ceipts received during fiscal year 2019, so as
to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tion from the general fund estimated at not
more than $0: Provided further, That to the
extent that amounts realized from such re-
ceipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in ex-
cess of $5,000,000 shall be deposited in the
‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as discretionary
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2019, shall be
retained and used for necessary salaries and
expenses in this account, and shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the funds included in the first para-
graph under this heading, the Chemical Risk
Review and Reduction program project shall
be allocated for this fiscal year, excluding
the amount of any fees appropriated, not less
than the amount of appropriations for that
program project for fiscal year 2014.
HAZARDOUS WASTE ELECTRONIC MANIFEST
SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out sec-
tion 3024 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, op-
eration, maintenance, and upgrading of the
hazardous waste electronic manifest system
established by such section, $8,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the sum herein appropriated from the
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting
collections under such section 3024 are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2019, which shall re-
main available until expended and be used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at not more than $0: Provided further, That to
the extent such offsetting collections re-
ceived in fiscal year 2019 exceed $8,000,000,
those excess amounts shall remain available
until expended and be used for necessary ex-
penses in this appropriation.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$41,489,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For construction, repair, improvement, ex-
tension, alteration, and purchase of fixed
equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the
Environmental Protection Agency,
$34,467,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SUPERFUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA), including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5),
(c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) $1,091,947,000,
to remain available until expended, con-
sisting of such sums as are available in the
Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as author-
ized by section 517(a) of the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986 (SARA) and up to $1,091,947,000 as a pay-
ment from general revenues to the Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund for purposes as
authorized by section 517(b) of SARA: Pro-
vided, That funds appropriated under this
heading may be allocated to other Federal
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of
CERCLA: Provided further, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, $8,778,000
shall be paid to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ appropriation to remain available until
September 30, 2020, and $15,496,000 shall be
paid to the ‘‘Science and Technology’’ appro-
priation to remain available until September
30, 2020.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out leak-
ing underground storage tank cleanup activi-
ties authorized by subtitle I of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $91,941,000, to remain
available until expended, of which $66,572,000
shall be for carrying out leaking under-
ground storage tank cleanup activities au-
thorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying
out the other provisions of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code: Provided, That
the Administrator is authorized to use ap-
propriations made available under this head-
ing to implement section 9013 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act to provide financial as-
sistance to federally recognized Indian tribes
for the development and implementation of
programs to manage underground storage
tanks.
INLAND OIL SPILL PROGRAMS
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Environmental Protection Agency’s respon-
sibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
$18,209,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill
Liability trust fund, to remain available
until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For environmental programs and infra-
structure assistance, including capitaliza-
tion grants for State revolving funds and
performance partnership grants,
$3,605,041,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which—
(1) $1,394,000,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act; and of
which $864,000,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Drinking Water
State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That
for fiscal year 2019, to the extent there are
sufficient eligible project applications and
projects are consistent with State Intended
Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the
funds made available under this title to each
State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State for projects to address green infra-
structure, water or energy efficiency im-
provements, or other environmentally inno-
vative activities: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2019, funds made available under
this title to each State for Drinking Water
State Revolving Fund capitalization grants
may, at the discretion of each State, be used
for projects to address green infrastructure,
water or energy efficiency improvements, or
other environmentally innovative activities:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, the limitation on the amounts
in a State water pollution control revolving
fund that may be used by a State to admin-
ister the fund shall not apply to amounts in-
cluded as principal in loans made by such
fund in fiscal year 2019 and prior years where
such amounts represent costs of admin-
istering the fund to the extent that such
amounts are or were deemed reasonable by
the Administrator, accounted for separately
from other assets in the fund, and used for
eligible purposes of the fund, including ad-
ministration: Provided further, That for fiscal
year 2019, notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
grants made under title II of such Act for
American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth
of the Northern Marianas, the United States
Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia
may also be made for the purpose of pro-
viding assistance: (1) solely for facility
plans, design activities, or plans, specifica-
tions, and estimates for any proposed project
for the construction of treatment works; and
(2) for the construction, repair, or replace-
ment of privately owned treatment works
serving one or more principal residences or
small commercial establishments: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2019, notwith-
standing the provisions of such subsections
(g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section
518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, funds reserved by the Administrator for
grants under section 518(c) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act may also be
used to provide assistance: (1) solely for fa-
cility plans, design activities, or plans, spec-
ifications, and estimates for any proposed
project for the construction of treatment
works; and (2) for the construction, repair, or
replacement of privately owned treatment
works serving one or more principal resi-
dences or small commercial establishments:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S391
January 22, 2019
notwithstanding any provision of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act and regula-
tions issued pursuant thereof, up to a total
of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by the Ad-
ministrator for grants under section 518(c) of
such Act may also be used for grants for
training, technical assistance, and edu-
cational programs relating to the operation
and management of the treatment works
specified in section 518(c) of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That for fiscal year 2019, funds
reserved under section 518(c) of such Act
shall be available for grants only to Indian
tribes, as defined in section 518(h) of such
Act and former Indian reservations in Okla-
homa (as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior) and Native Villages as defined in
Public Law 92–203: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the limita-
tion on amounts in section 518(c) of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, up to a
total of 2 percent of the funds appropriated,
or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and not-
withstanding the limitation on amounts in
section 1452(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds
appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is
greater, for State Revolving Funds under
such Acts may be reserved by the Adminis-
trator for grants under section 518(c) and
section 1452(i) of such Acts: Provided further,
That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding
the amounts specified in section 205(c) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to
1.5 percent of the aggregate funds appro-
priated for the Clean Water State Revolving
Fund program under the Act less any sums
reserved under section 518(c) of the Act, may
be reserved by the Administrator for grants
made under title II of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act for American Samoa,
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Marianas, and United States Virgin Islands:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019,
notwithstanding the limitations on amounts
specified in section 1452(j) of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of the funds
appropriated for the Drinking Water State
Revolving Fund programs under the Safe
Drinking Water Act may be reserved by the
Administrator for grants made under section
1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Clean Water State Revolving Fund cap-
italization grants and 20 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State to provide additional subsidy to eligi-
ble recipients in the form of forgiveness of
principal, negative interest loans, or grants
(or any combination of these), and shall be
so used by the State only where such funds
are provided as initial financing for an eligi-
ble recipient or to buy, refinance, or restruc-
ture the debt obligations of eligible recipi-
ents only where such debt was incurred on or
after the date of enactment of this Act, or
where such debt was incurred prior to the
date of enactment of this Act if the State,
with concurrence from the Administrator,
determines that such funds could be used to
help address a threat to public health from
heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water or if a Federal or State emergency
declaration has been issued due to a threat
to public health from heightened exposure to
lead in a municipal drinking water supply
before the date of enactment of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That in a State in which such
an emergency declaration has been issued,
the State may use more than 20 percent of
the funds made available under this title to
the State for Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Fund capitalization grants to provide ad-
ditional subsidy to eligible recipients;
(2) $15,000,000 shall be for architectural, en-
gineering, planning, design, construction and
related activities in connection with the
construction of high priority water and
wastewater facilities in the area of the
United States-Mexico Border, after consulta-
tion with the appropriate border commis-
sion: Provided, That no funds provided by
this appropriations Act to address the water,
wastewater and other critical infrastructure
needs of the colonias in the United States
along the United States-Mexico border shall
be made available to a county or municipal
government unless that government has es-
tablished an enforceable local ordinance, or
other zoning rule, which prevents in that ju-
risdiction the development or construction
of any additional colonia areas, or the devel-
opment within an existing colonia the con-
struction of any new home, business, or
other structure which lacks water, waste-
water, or other necessary infrastructure;
(3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants to the
State of Alaska to address drinking water
and wastewater infrastructure needs of rural
and Alaska Native Villages: Provided, That of
these funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall
provide a match of 25 percent; (B) no more
than 5 percent of the funds may be used for
administrative and overhead expenses; and
(C) the State of Alaska shall make awards
consistent with the Statewide priority list
established in conjunction with the Agency
and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for
all water, sewer, waste disposal, and similar
projects carried out by the State of Alaska
that are funded under section 221 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which
shall allocate not less than 25 percent of the
funds provided for projects in regional hub
communities;
(4) $87,000,000 shall be to carry out section
104(k) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, inter-
agency agreements, and associated program
support costs: Provided, That not more than
25 percent of the amount appropriated to
carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be
used for site characterization, assessment,
and remediation of facilities described in
section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA: Provided
further, That at least 10 percent shall be allo-
cated for assistance in persistent poverty
counties: Provided further, That for purposes
of this section, the term ‘‘persistent poverty
counties’’ means any county that has had 20
percent or more of its population living in
poverty over the past 30 years, as measured
by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and
the most recent Small Area Income and Pov-
erty Estimates;
(5) $87,000,000 shall be for grants under title
VII, subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of
2005;
(6) $52,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed
grants in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act);
(7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water
quality program authorized in section 5004(d)
of the Water Infrastructure Improvements
for the Nation Act (Public Law 114–322); and
(8) $1,077,041,000 shall be for grants, includ-
ing associated program support costs, to
States, federally recognized tribes, inter-
state agencies, tribal consortia, and air pol-
lution control agencies for multi-media or
single media pollution prevention, control
and abatement and related activities, includ-
ing activities pursuant to the provisions set
forth under this heading in Public Law 104–
134, and for making grants under section 103
of the Clean Air Act for particulate matter
monitoring and data collection activities
subject to terms and conditions specified by
the Administrator, of which: $47,745,000 shall
be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA;
$9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Infor-
mation Exchange Network grants, including
associated program support costs; $1,498,000
shall be for grants to States under section
2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
which shall be in addition to funds appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘Leaking Under-
ground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program’’
to carry out the provisions of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act specified in section
9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other
than section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste Dis-
posal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds available
for grants under section 106 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act shall be for
State participation in national- and State-
level statistical surveys of water resources
and enhancements to State monitoring pro-
grams; $11,000,000 shall be for multipurpose
grants, including interagency agreements.
WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND
INNOVATION PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct loans and for the cost
of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the cost of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans, including capitalized
interest, and total loan principal, including
capitalized interest, any part of which is to
be guaranteed, not to exceed $610,000,000.
In addition, fees authorized to be collected
pursuant to sections 5029 and 5030 of the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014 shall be deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Inno-
vation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS AND RESCISSION OF
FUNDS)
For fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 6303(1) and 6305(1), the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in
carrying out the Agency’s function to imple-
ment directly Federal environmental pro-
grams required or authorized by law in the
absence of an acceptable tribal program,
may award cooperative agreements to feder-
ally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal
consortia, if authorized by their member
tribes, to assist the Administrator in imple-
menting Federal environmental programs
for Indian tribes required or authorized by
law, except that no such cooperative agree-
ments may be awarded from funds des-
ignated for State financial assistance agree-
ments.
The Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency is authorized to collect
and obligate pesticide registration service
fees in accordance with section 33 of the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act, as amended by Public Law 112–177, the
Pesticide Registration Improvement Exten-
sion Act of 2012.
Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may assess fees
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w–8)
for fiscal year 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S392 January 22, 2019
The Administrator is authorized to trans-
fer up to $300,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated for the Great Lakes Restoration Ini-
tiative under the heading ‘‘Environmental
Programs and Management’’ to the head of
any Federal department or agency, with the
concurrence of such head, to carry out ac-
tivities that would support the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement programs,
projects, or activities; to enter into an inter-
agency agreement with the head of such Fed-
eral department or agency to carry out these
activities; and to make grants to govern-
mental entities, nonprofit organizations, in-
stitutions, and individuals for planning, re-
search, monitoring, outreach, and implemen-
tation in furtherance of the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement.
The Science and Technology, Environ-
mental Programs and Management, Office of
Inspector General, Hazardous Substance
Superfund, and Leaking Underground Stor-
age Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are
available for the construction, alteration, re-
pair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facili-
ties, provided that the cost does not exceed
$150,000 per project.
For fiscal year 2019, and notwithstanding
section 518(f) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the Adminis-
trator is authorized to use the amounts ap-
propriated for any fiscal year under section
319 of the Act to make grants to Indian
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e)
of that Act.
The Administrator is authorized to use the
amounts appropriated under the heading
‘‘Environmental Programs and Manage-
ment’’ for fiscal year 2019 to provide grants
to implement the Southeastern New England
Watershed Restoration Program.
Of the unobligated balances available for
the ‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’ ac-
count, $139,078,000 are hereby permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
from amounts that were made available by
subsection (a) of section 196 of the Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2017 (division C
of Public Law 114–223), as amended by the
Further Continuing and Security Assistance
Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 114–
254).
Notwithstanding the limitations on
amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act, not less than
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this title for the National Estuary Program
shall be for making competitive awards de-
scribed in section 320(g)(4).
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Natural Resources and
Environment, $875,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to any agency in
the Natural Resources and Environment mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the office.
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For necessary expenses of forest and range-
land research as authorized by law,
$300,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That of the funds
provided, $77,000,000 is for the forest inven-
tory and analysis program: Provided further,
That all authorities for the use of funds, in-
cluding the use of contracts, grants, and co-
operative agreements, available to execute
the Forest and Rangeland Research appro-
priation, are also available in the utilization
of these funds for Fire Science Research.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of cooperating with
and providing technical and financial assist-
ance to States, territories, possessions, and
others, and for forest health management,
and conducting an international program as
authorized, $336,990,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, as authorized by
law; of which $63,990,000 is to be derived from
the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be
used for the Forest Legacy Program, to re-
main available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the Forest Legacy Pro-
gram and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $1,503,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects with cost
savings or failed or partially failed projects
that had funds returned: Provided, That no
amounts may be rescinded from amounts
that were designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Con-
current Resolution on the Budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, for manage-
ment, protection, improvement, and utiliza-
tion of the National Forest System, and for
hazardous fuels management on or adjacent
to such lands, $1,938,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2022: Provided,
That of the funds provided, $40,000,000 shall
be deposited in the Collaborative Forest
Landscape Restoration Fund for ecological
restoration treatments as authorized by 16
U.S.C. 7303(f): Provided further, That of the
funds provided, $368,000,000 shall be for forest
products: Provided further, That of the funds
provided, $435,000,000 shall be for hazardous
fuels management activities, of which not to
exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make
grants, using any authorities available to
the Forest Service under the ‘‘State and Pri-
vate Forestry’’ appropriation, for the pur-
pose of creating incentives for increased use
of biomass from National Forest System
lands: Provided further, That $20,000,000 may
be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to
enter into procurement contracts or coopera-
tive agreements or to issue grants for haz-
ardous fuels management activities, and for
training or monitoring associated with such
hazardous fuels management activities on
Federal land, or on non-Federal land if the
Secretary determines such activities benefit
resources on Federal land: Provided further,
That funds made available to implement the
Community Forestry Restoration Act, Pub-
lic Law 106–393, title VI, shall be available
for use on non-Federal lands in accordance
with authorities made available to the For-
est Service under the ‘‘State and Private
Forestry’’ appropriations: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 33 of the
Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C.
1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calcu-
lating a fee for grazing on a National Grass-
land, may provide a credit of up to 50 percent
of the calculated fee to a Grazing Associa-
tion or direct permittee for a conservation
practice approved by the Secretary in ad-
vance of the fiscal year in which the cost of
the conservation practice is incurred. And,
that the amount credited shall remain avail-
able to the Grazing Association or the direct
permittee, as appropriate, in the fiscal year
in which the credit is made and each fiscal
year thereafter for use on the project for
conservation practices approved by the Sec-
retary.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, $446,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2022, for construction, capital improvement,
maintenance and acquisition of buildings
and other facilities and infrastructure; and
for construction, reconstruction, decommis-
sioning of roads that are no longer needed,
including unauthorized roads that are not
part of the transportation system, and main-
tenance of forest roads and trails by the For-
est Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532–538
and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That
funds becoming available in fiscal year 2019
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501)
shall be transferred to the General Fund of
the Treasury and shall not be available for
transfer or obligation for any other purpose
unless the funds are appropriated.
LAND ACQUISITION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of chapter 2003 of title 54, United
States Code, including administrative ex-
penses, and for acquisition of land or waters,
or interest therein, in accordance with statu-
tory authority applicable to the Forest Serv-
ice, $72,564,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS FOR NATIONAL FORESTS
SPECIAL ACTS
For acquisition of lands within the exte-
rior boundaries of the Cache, Uinta, and
Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe
National Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles,
San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland Na-
tional Forests, California; and the Ozark-St.
Francis and Ouachita National Forests, Ar-
kansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be
derived from forest receipts.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS TO COMPLETE LAND
EXCHANGES
For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be
derived from funds deposited by State, coun-
ty, or municipal governments, public school
districts, or other public school authorities,
and for authorized expenditures from funds
deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to
the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a),
to remain available through September 30,
2022, (16 U.S.C. 516–617a, 555a; Public Law 96–
586; Public Law 76–589, 76–591; and Public Law
78–310).
RANGE BETTERMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of range rehabilita-
tion, protection, and improvement, 50 per-
cent of all moneys received during the prior
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic live-
stock on lands in National Forests in the 16
Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1)
of Public Law 94–579, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, of which not to
exceed 6 percent shall be available for ad-
ministrative expenses associated with on-
the-ground range rehabilitation, protection,
and improvements.
GIFTS, DONATIONS AND BEQUESTS FOR FOREST
AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C.
1643(b), $45,000, to remain available through
September 30, 2022, to be derived from the
fund established pursuant to the above Act.
MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL FOREST LANDS FOR
SUBSISTENCE USES
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice to manage Federal lands in Alaska for
subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alas-
ka National Interest Lands Conservation Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S393
January 22, 2019
(16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $2,500,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for forest fire
presuppression activities on National Forest
System lands, for emergency wildland fire
suppression on or adjacent to such lands or
other lands under fire protection agreement,
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-
over National Forest System lands and
water, $3,004,986,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided, That
such funds including unobligated balances
under this heading, are available for repay-
ment of advances from other appropriations
accounts previously transferred for such pur-
poses: Provided further, That any unobligated
funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year
for hazardous fuels management may be
transferred to the ‘‘National Forest System’’
account: Provided further, That such funds
shall be available to reimburse State and
other cooperating entities for services pro-
vided in response to wildfire and other emer-
gencies or disasters to the extent such reim-
bursements by the Forest Service for non-
fire emergencies are fully repaid by the re-
sponsible emergency management agency:
Provided further, That funds provided shall be
available for support to Federal emergency
response: Provided further, That the costs of
implementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That funds designated for wildfire
suppression, shall be assessed for cost pools
on the same basis as such assessments are
calculated against other agency programs.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FOREST SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Appropriations to the Forest Service for
the current fiscal year shall be available for:
(1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; ac-
quisition of passenger motor vehicles from
excess sources, and hire of such vehicles;
purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the oper-
able fleet for use in Forest Service wildland
fire programs and other Forest Service pro-
grams; notwithstanding other provisions of
law, existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7
U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for em-
ployment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase,
erection, and alteration of buildings and
other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4)
acquisition of land, waters, and interests
therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for ex-
penses pursuant to the Volunteers in the Na-
tional Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d,
and 558a note); (6) the cost of uniforms as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and (7) for debt
collection contracts in accordance with 31
U.S.C. 3718(c).
Any appropriations or funds available to
the Forest Service may be transferred to the
Wildland Fire Management appropriation for
forest firefighting, emergency rehabilitation
of burned-over or damaged lands or waters
under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness
due to severe burning conditions upon the
Secretary’s notification of the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations that
all fire suppression funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Wildland Fire Management’’
will be obligated within 30 days: Provided,
That all funds used pursuant to this para-
graph must be replenished by a supplemental
appropriation which must be requested as
promptly as possible.
Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appro-
priated to the Forest Service shall be avail-
able for expenditure or transfer to the De-
partment of the Interior for wildland fire
management, hazardous fuels management,
and State fire assistance when such transfers
would facilitate and expedite wildland fire
management programs and projects.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the Forest Service may transfer un-
obligated balances of discretionary funds ap-
propriated to the Forest Service by this Act
to or within the National Forest System Ac-
count, or reprogram funds to be used for the
purposes of hazardous fuels management and
urgent rehabilitation of burned-over Na-
tional Forest System lands and water, such
transferred funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided, That
none of the funds transferred pursuant to
this section shall be available for obligation
without written notification to and the prior
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
funds derived from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for assistance to or
through the Agency for International Devel-
opment in connection with forest and range-
land research, technical information, and as-
sistance in foreign countries, and shall be
available to support forestry and related nat-
ural resource activities outside the United
States and its territories and possessions, in-
cluding technical assistance, education and
training, and cooperation with U.S., private,
and international organizations. The Forest
Service, acting for the International Pro-
gram, may sign direct funding agreements
with foreign governments and institutions as
well as other domestic agencies (including
the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment, the Department of State, and the Mil-
lennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. pri-
vate sector firms, institutions and organiza-
tions to provide technical assistance and
training programs overseas on forestry and
rangeland management.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of
Land Management, for removal, preparation,
and adoption of excess wild horses and bur-
ros from National Forest System lands, and
for the performance of cadastral surveys to
designate the boundaries of such lands.
None of the funds made available to the
Forest Service in this Act or any other Act
with respect to any fiscal year shall be sub-
ject to transfer under the provisions of sec-
tion 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442
of Public Law 106–224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or sec-
tion 10417(b) of Public Law 107–171 (7 U.S.C.
8316(b)).
None of the funds available to the Forest
Service may be reprogrammed without the
advance approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations in accordance
with the reprogramming procedures con-
tained in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act).
Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available
to the Forest Service shall be transferred to
the Working Capital Fund of the Department
of Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000
of funds available to the Forest Service shall
be transferred to the Department of Agri-
culture for Department Reimbursable Pro-
grams, commonly referred to as Greenbook
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall pro-
hibit or limit the use of reimbursable agree-
ments requested by the Forest Service in
order to obtain services from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s National Information
Technology Center and the Department of
Agriculture’s International Technology
Service.
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 shall be available for pri-
ority projects within the scope of the ap-
proved budget, which shall be carried out by
the Youth Conservation Corps and shall be
carried out under the authority of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et
seq.).
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, $4,000 is available to the Chief of the For-
est Service for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of
Public Law 101–593, of the funds available to
the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be
advanced in a lump sum to the National For-
est Foundation to aid conservation partner-
ship projects in support of the Forest Service
mission, without regard to when the Founda-
tion incurs expenses, for projects on or bene-
fitting National Forest System lands or re-
lated to Forest Service programs: Provided,
That of the Federal funds made available to
the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall
be available for administrative expenses:
Provided further, That the Foundation shall
obtain, by the end of the period of Federal fi-
nancial assistance, private contributions to
match funds made available by the Forest
Service on at least a one-for-one basis: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law
98–244, up to $3,000,000 of the funds available
to the Forest Service may be advanced to
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in
a lump sum to aid cost-share conservation
projects, without regard to when expenses
are incurred, on or benefitting National For-
est System lands or related to Forest Service
programs: Provided, That such funds shall be
matched on at least a one-for-one basis by
the Foundation or its sub-recipients: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for interactions with and
providing technical assistance to rural com-
munities and natural resource-based busi-
nesses for sustainable rural development
purposes.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for payments to counties
within the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and
(2), and section 16(a)(2) of Public Law 99–663.
Any funds appropriated to the Forest Serv-
ice may be used to meet the non-Federal
share requirement in section 502(c) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3056(c)(2)).
The Forest Service shall not assess funds
for the purpose of performing fire, adminis-
trative, and other facilities maintenance and
decommissioning.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, of any appropriations or funds available
to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000
may be used to reimburse the Office of the
General Counsel (OGC), Department of Agri-
culture, for travel and related expenses in-
curred as a result of OGC assistance or par-
ticipation requested by the Forest Service at
meetings, training sessions, management re-
views, land purchase negotiations and simi-
lar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Fu-
ture budget justifications for both the Forest
Service and the Department of Agriculture
should clearly display the sums previously
transferred and the sums requested for trans-
fer.
An eligible individual who is employed in
any project funded under title V of the Older
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S394 January 22, 2019
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.)
and administered by the Forest Service shall
be considered to be a Federal employee for
purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, through the Office of Budget and
Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall
report no later than 30 business days fol-
lowing the close of each fiscal quarter all
current and prior year unobligated balances,
by fiscal year, budget line item and account,
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICES
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act, the Indian Health Care Improve-
ment Act, and titles II and III of the Public
Health Service Act with respect to the In-
dian Health Service, $4,103,190,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, except as
otherwise provided herein, together with
payments received during the fiscal year
pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b),
238b), for services furnished by the Indian
Health Service: Provided, That funds made
available to tribes and tribal organizations
through contracts, grant agreements, or any
other agreements or compacts authorized by
the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450),
shall be deemed to be obligated at the time
of the grant or contract award and there-
after shall remain available to the tribe or
tribal organization without fiscal year limi-
tation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall
be available for grants or contracts with
public or private institutions to provide al-
cohol or drug treatment services to Indians,
including alcohol detoxification services:
Provided further, That $964,819,000 for Pur-
chased/Referred Care, including $53,000,000
for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emer-
gency Fund, shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That of the funds
provided, up to $44,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until expended for implementation of
the loan repayment program under section
108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act: Provided further, That of the funds pro-
vided, $36,000,000 shall remain available until
expended to supplement funds available for
operational costs at tribal clinics operated
under an Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act compact or contract
where health care is delivered in space ac-
quired through a full service lease, which is
not eligible for maintenance and improve-
ment and equipment funds from the Indian
Health Service, and $58,000,000 shall be for
costs related to or resulting from accredita-
tion emergencies, of which up to $4,000,000
may be used to supplement amounts other-
wise available for Purchased/Referred Care:
Provided further, That the amounts collected
by the Federal Government as authorized by
sections 104 and 108 of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a)
during the preceding fiscal year for breach of
contracts shall be deposited to the Fund au-
thorized by section 108A of that Act (25
U.S.C. 1616a–1) and shall remain available
until expended and, notwithstanding section
108A(c) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a–1(c)),
funds shall be available to make new awards
under the loan repayment and scholarship
programs under sections 104 and 108 of that
Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a): Provided fur-
ther, That the amounts made available with-
in this account for the Substance Abuse and
Suicide Prevention Program, for Opioid Pre-
vention, Treatment and Recovery Services,
for the Domestic Violence Prevention Pro-
gram, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the
housing subsidy authority for civilian em-
ployees, for aftercare pilot programs at
Youth Regional Treatment Centers, to im-
prove collections from public and private in-
surance at Indian Health Service and trib-
ally operated facilities, and for accreditation
emergencies shall be allocated at the discre-
tion of the Director of the Indian Health
Service and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That funds provided
in this Act may be used for annual contracts
and grants for which the performance period
falls within 2 fiscal years, provided the total
obligation is recorded in the year the funds
are appropriated: Provided further, That the
amounts collected by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services under the au-
thority of title IV of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act shall remain available
until expended for the purpose of achieving
compliance with the applicable conditions
and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of
the Social Security Act, except for those re-
lated to the planning, design, or construc-
tion of new facilities: Provided further, That
funding contained herein for scholarship pro-
grams under the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act shall remain available until
expended: Provided further, That amounts re-
ceived by tribes and tribal organizations
under title IV of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act shall be reported and ac-
counted for and available to the receiving
tribes and tribal organizations until ex-
pended: Provided further, That the Bureau of
Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian
Health Service, and from tribes and tribal
organizations operating health facilities pur-
suant to Public Law 93–638, such individually
identifiable health information relating to
disabled children as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out its functions under
the Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.): Provided further,
That of the funds provided, $72,280,000 is for
the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund
and may be used, as needed, to carry out ac-
tivities typically funded under the Indian
Health Facilities account: Provided further,
That the accreditation emergency funds may
be used, as needed, to carry out activities
typically funded under the Indian Health Fa-
cilities account.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2019,
such sums as may be necessary: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no amounts made available under this
heading shall be available for transfer to an-
other budget account.
INDIAN HEALTH FACILITIES
For construction, repair, maintenance, im-
provement, and equipment of health and re-
lated auxiliary facilities, including quarters
for personnel; preparation of plans, specifica-
tions, and drawings; acquisition of sites, pur-
chase and erection of modular buildings, and
purchases of trailers; and for provision of do-
mestic and community sanitation facilities
for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the In-
dian Self-Determination Act, and the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act, and for ex-
penses necessary to carry out such Acts and
titles II and III of the Public Health Service
Act with respect to environmental health
and facilities support activities of the Indian
Health Service, $878,806,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated for the planning, design, con-
struction, renovation or expansion of health
facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or
tribes may be used to purchase land on
which such facilities will be located: Provided
further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be
used by the Indian Health Service to pur-
chase TRANSAM equipment from the De-
partment of Defense for distribution to the
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:
Provided further, That none of the funds ap-
propriated to the Indian Health Service may
be used for sanitation facilities construction
for new homes funded with grants by the
housing programs of the United States De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment: Provided further, That not to exceed
$2,700,000 from this account and the ‘‘Indian
Health Services’’ account may be used by the
Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances
for the Indian Health Service and tribal fa-
cilities in conjunction with an existing
interagency agreement between the Indian
Health Service and the General Services Ad-
ministration: Provided further, That not to
exceed $500,000 may be placed in a Demoli-
tion Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended, and be used by the Indian Health
Service for the demolition of Federal build-
ings.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INDIAN HEALTH
SERVICE
Appropriations provided in this Act to the
Indian Health Service shall be available for
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at
rates not to exceed the per diem rate equiva-
lent to the maximum rate payable for senior-
level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of
passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; pur-
chase of medical equipment; purchase of re-
prints; purchase, renovation and erection of
modular buildings and renovation of existing
facilities; payments for telephone service in
private residences in the field, when author-
ized under regulations approved by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services; uni-
forms or allowances therefor as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and for expenses of at-
tendance at meetings that relate to the func-
tions or activities of the Indian Health Serv-
ice: Provided, That in accordance with the
provisions of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act, non-Indian patients may be
extended health care at all tribally adminis-
tered or Indian Health Service facilities, sub-
ject to charges, and the proceeds along with
funds recovered under the Federal Medical
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651–2653) shall
be credited to the account of the facility pro-
viding the service and shall be available
without fiscal year limitation: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding any other law or
regulation, funds transferred from the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
to the Indian Health Service shall be admin-
istered under Public Law 86–121, the Indian
Sanitation Facilities Act and Public Law 93–
638: Provided further, That funds appropriated
to the Indian Health Service in this Act, ex-
cept those used for administrative and pro-
gram direction purposes, shall not be subject
to limitations directed at curtailing Federal
travel and transportation: Provided further,
That none of the funds made available to the
Indian Health Service in this Act shall be
used for any assessments or charges by the
Department of Health and Human Services
unless identified in the budget justification
and provided in this Act, or approved by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions through the reprogramming process:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, funds previously or
herein made available to a tribe or tribal or-
ganization through a contract, grant, or
agreement authorized by title I or title V of
the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5321
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S395
January 22, 2019
et seq. (title I), 5381 et seq. (title V)), may be
deobligated and reobligated to a self-deter-
mination contract under title I, or a self-
governance agreement under title V of such
Act and thereafter shall remain available to
the tribe or tribal organization without fis-
cal year limitation: Provided further, That
none of the funds made available to the In-
dian Health Service in this Act shall be used
to implement the final rule published in the
Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, relating to the eligibility for the health
care services of the Indian Health Service
until the Indian Health Service has sub-
mitted a budget request reflecting the in-
creased costs associated with the proposed
final rule, and such request has been in-
cluded in an appropriations Act and enacted
into law: Provided further, That with respect
to functions transferred by the Indian Health
Service to tribes or tribal organizations, the
Indian Health Service is authorized to pro-
vide goods and services to those entities on
a reimbursable basis, including payments in
advance with subsequent adjustment, and
the reimbursements received therefrom,
along with the funds received from those en-
tities pursuant to the Indian Self-Determina-
tion Act, may be credited to the same or sub-
sequent appropriation account from which
the funds were originally derived, with such
amounts to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That reimbursements for
training, technical assistance, or services
provided by the Indian Health Service will
contain total costs, including direct, admin-
istrative, and overhead costs associated with
the provision of goods, services, or technical
assistance: Provided further, That the Indian
Health Service may provide to civilian med-
ical personnel serving in hospitals operated
by the Indian Health Service housing allow-
ances equivalent to those that would be pro-
vided to members of the Commissioned Corps
of the United States Public Health Service
serving in similar positions at such hos-
pitals: Provided further, That the appropria-
tion structure for the Indian Health Service
may not be altered without advance notifica-
tion to the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations.
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For necessary expenses for the National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences in
carrying out activities set forth in section
311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthor-
ization Act of 1986, $79,000,000.
AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE
REGISTRY
TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PUBLIC HEALTH
For necessary expenses for the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
(ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth
in sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA) and section 3019 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $74,691,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, in lieu of performing a health assess-
ment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the
Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other
appropriate health studies, evaluations, or
activities, including, without limitation,
biomedical testing, clinical evaluations,
medical monitoring, and referral to accred-
ited healthcare providers: Provided further,
That in performing any such health assess-
ment or health study, evaluation, or activ-
ity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not
be bound by the deadlines in section
104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further,
That none of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to
issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during
fiscal year 2019, and existing profiles may be
updated as necessary.
OTHER RELATED AGENCIES
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND
OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
For necessary expenses to continue func-
tions assigned to the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and Office of Environmental
Quality pursuant to the National Environ-
mental Policy Act of 1969, the Environ-
mental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to
exceed $750 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,994,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 202 of the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the
Council shall consist of one member, ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate, serving as
chairman and exercising all powers, func-
tions, and duties of the Council.
CHEMICAL SAFETY AND HAZARD INVESTIGATION
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities pursuant to section 112(r)(6) of the
Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902, and for serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates
for individuals not to exceed the per diem
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for
senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376,
$12,000,000: Provided, That the Chemical Safe-
ty and Hazard Investigation Board (Board)
shall have not more than three career Senior
Executive Service positions: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the individual appointed to the position
of Inspector General of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of
such appointment, also hold the position of
Inspector General of the Board: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Inspector General of the
Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of
Inspector General of EPA in performing the
duties of the Inspector General of the Board,
and shall not appoint any individuals to po-
sitions within the Board.
OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN
RELOCATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation as au-
thorized by Public Law 93–531, $8,750,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds provided in this or any other ap-
propriations Act are to be used to relocate
eligible individuals and groups including
evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned
lands residents, those in significantly sub-
standard housing, and all others certified as
eligible and not included in the preceding
categories: Provided further, That none of the
funds contained in this or any other Act may
be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi In-
dian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or
Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985,
was physically domiciled on the lands parti-
tioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or re-
placement home is provided for such house-
hold: Provided further, That no relocatee will
be provided with more than one new or re-
placement home: Provided further, That the
Office shall relocate any certified eligible
relocatees who have selected and received an
approved homesite on the Navajo reservation
or selected a replacement residence off the
Navajo reservation or on the land acquired
pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 93–531
(88 Stat. 1716): Provided further, That
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the Office of
the Inspector General of the Department of
the Interior, to remain available until ex-
pended, for audits and investigations of the
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation,
consistent with the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA
NATIVE CULTURE AND ARTS DEVELOPMENT
PAYMENT TO THE INSTITUTE
For payment to the Institute of American
Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts
Development, as authorized by part A of
title XV of Public Law 99–498 (20 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.), $9,960,000, which shall become avail-
able on July 1, 2019, and shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian
Institution, as authorized by law, including
research in the fields of art, science, and his-
tory; development, preservation, and docu-
mentation of the National Collections; pres-
entation of public exhibits and perform-
ances; collection, preparation, dissemina-
tion, and exchange of information and publi-
cations; conduct of education, training, and
museum assistance programs; maintenance,
alteration, operation, lease agreements of no
more than 30 years, and protection of build-
ings, facilities, and approaches; not to exceed
$100,000 for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and clean-
ing of uniforms for employees, $739,994,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except as otherwise provided herein; of which
not to exceed $6,917,000 for the instrumenta-
tion program, collections acquisition, exhi-
bition reinstallation, and the repatriation of
skeletal remains program shall remain avail-
able until expended; and including such
funds as may be necessary to support Amer-
ican overseas research centers: Provided,
That funds appropriated herein are available
for advance payments to independent con-
tractors performing research services or par-
ticipating in official Smithsonian presen-
tations.
FACILITIES CAPITAL
For necessary expenses of repair, revital-
ization, and alteration of facilities owned or
occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by
contract or otherwise, as authorized by sec-
tion 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat.
623), and for construction, including nec-
essary personnel, $303,503,000, to remain
available until expended, of which not to ex-
ceed $10,000 shall be for services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the upkeep and operations of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and
care of the works of art therein, and admin-
istrative expenses incident thereto, as au-
thorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat.
51), as amended by the public resolution of
April 13, 1939 (Public Resolution 9, Seventy-
sixth Congress), including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance
when authorized by the treasurer of the Gal-
lery for membership in library, museum, and
art associations or societies whose publica-
tions or services are available to members
only, or to members at a price lower than to
the general public; purchase, repair, and
cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uni-
forms, or allowances therefor, for other em-
ployees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S396 January 22, 2019
5902); purchase or rental of devices and serv-
ices for protecting buildings and contents
thereof, and maintenance, alteration, im-
provement, and repair of buildings, ap-
proaches, and grounds; and purchase of serv-
ices for restoration and repair of works of
art for the National Gallery of Art by con-
tracts made, without advertising, with indi-
viduals, firms, or organizations at such rates
or prices and under such terms and condi-
tions as the Gallery may deem proper,
$144,202,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which not to exceed
$3,640,000 for the special exhibition program
shall remain available until expended.
REPAIR, RESTORATION AND RENOVATION OF
BUILDINGS
For necessary expenses of repair, restora-
tion and renovation of buildings, grounds
and facilities owned or occupied by the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, by contract or other-
wise, for operating lease agreements of no
more than 10 years, with no extensions or re-
newals beyond the 10 years, that address
space needs created by the ongoing renova-
tions in the Master Facilities Plan, as au-
thorized, $24,203,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That contracts
awarded for environmental systems, protec-
tion systems, and exterior repair or renova-
tion of buildings of the National Gallery of
Art may be negotiated with selected contrac-
tors and awarded on the basis of contractor
qualifications as well as price.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
For necessary expenses for the operation,
maintenance and security of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
$24,490,000.
CAPITAL REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for capital repair
and restoration of the existing features of
the building and site of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts, $16,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
provisions of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial
Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of
passenger vehicles and services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 shall be
available to the National Endowment for the
Arts for the support of projects and produc-
tions in the arts, including arts education
and public outreach activities, through as-
sistance to organizations and individuals
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program
support, and for administering the functions
of the Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 to remain
available until expended, of which
$141,750,000 shall be available for support of
activities in the humanities, pursuant to sec-
tion 7(c) of the Act and for administering the
functions of the Act; and $13,250,000 shall be
available to carry out the matching grants
program pursuant to section 10(a)(2) of the
Act, including $11,250,000 for the purposes of
section 7(h): Provided, That appropriations
for carrying out section 10(a)(2) shall be
available for obligation only in such
amounts as may be equal to the total
amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money,
and other property accepted by the chairman
or by grantees of the National Endowment
for the Humanities under the provisions of
sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the
current and preceding fiscal years for which
equal amounts have not previously been ap-
propriated.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
None of the funds appropriated to the Na-
tional Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities may be used to process any grant
or contract documents which do not include
the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated to the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
may be used for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
funds from nonappropriated sources may be
used as necessary for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That the Chairperson of the National Endow-
ment for the Arts may approve grants of up
to $10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of
such grants does not exceed 5 percent of the
sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes
per year: Provided further, That such small
grant actions are taken pursuant to the
terms of an expressed and direct delegation
of authority from the National Council on
the Arts to the Chairperson.
COMMISSION OF FINE ARTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses of the Commission of Fine
Arts under chapter 91 of title 40, United
States Code, $2,771,000: Provided, That the
Commission is authorized to charge fees to
cover the full costs of its publications, and
such fees shall be credited to this account as
an offsetting collection, to remain available
until expended without further appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Commission
is authorized to accept gifts, including ob-
jects, papers, artwork, drawings and arti-
facts, that pertain to the history and design
of the Nation’s Capital or the history and ac-
tivities of the Commission of Fine Arts, for
the purpose of artistic display, study, or edu-
cation: Provided further, That one-tenth of
one percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representation expenses.
NATIONAL CAPITAL ARTS AND CULTURAL
AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses as authorized by
Public Law 99–190 (20 U.S.C. 956a), $2,750,000.
ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC
PRESERVATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Advisory
Council on Historic Preservation (Public
Law 89–665), $6,890,000.
NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Capital Planning Commission under chapter
87 of title 40, United States Code, including
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$8,099,000: Provided, That one-quarter of 1
percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representational expenses associated
with hosting international visitors engaged
in the planning and physical development of
world capitals.
UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL
MUSEUM
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM
For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial
Museum, as authorized by Public Law 106–292
(36 U.S.C. 2301–2310), $59,000,000, of which
$1,715,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for the Museum’s equipment
replacement program; and of which $4,000,000
for the Museum’s repair and rehabilitation
program and $1,264,000 for the Museum’s out-
reach initiatives program shall remain avail-
able until expended.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Dwight D.
Eisenhower Memorial Commission, $1,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Women’s
Suffrage Centennial Commission, as author-
ized by the Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commission Act (section 431(a)(3) of division
G of Public Law 115–31), $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
Notwithstanding section 9 of the World
War I Centennial Commission Act, as au-
thorized by the World War I Centennial Com-
mission Act (Public Law 112–272) and the
Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291), for nec-
essary expenses of the World War I Centen-
nial Commission, $7,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That in addi-
tion to the authority provided by section 6(g)
of such Act, the World War I Commission
may accept money, in-kind personnel serv-
ices, contractual support, or any appropriate
support from any executive branch agency
for activities of the Commission.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 401. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available for any
activity or the publication or distribution of
literature that in any way tends to promote
public support or opposition to any legisla-
tive proposal on which Congressional action
is not complete other than to communicate
to Members of Congress as described in 18
U.S.C. 1913.
OBLIGATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 402. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
DISCLOSURE OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
SEC. 403. The amount and basis of esti-
mated overhead charges, deductions, re-
serves or holdbacks, including working cap-
ital fund and cost pool charges, from pro-
grams, projects, activities and subactivities
to support government-wide, departmental,
agency, or bureau administrative functions
or headquarters, regional, or central oper-
ations shall be presented in annual budget
justifications and subject to approval by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate. Changes
to such estimates shall be presented to the
Committees on Appropriations for approval.
MINING APPLICATIONS
SEC. 404. (a) LIMITATION OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available pursuant to this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to accept or process appli-
cations for a patent for any mining or mill
site claim located under the general mining
laws.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply if the Secretary of the Interior deter-
mines that, for the claim concerned (1) a pat-
ent application was filed with the Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S397
January 22, 2019
on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all re-
quirements established under sections 2325
and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29
and 30) for vein or lode claims, sections 2329,
2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and
section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case
may be, were fully complied with by the ap-
plicant by that date.
(c) REPORT.—On September 30, 2020, the
Secretary of the Interior shall file with the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
a report on actions taken by the Department
under the plan submitted pursuant to sec-
tion 314(c) of the Department of the Interior
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
1997 (Public Law 104–208).
(d) MINERAL EXAMINATIONS.—In order to
process patent applications in a timely and
responsible manner, upon the request of a
patent applicant, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior shall allow the applicant to fund a quali-
fied third-party contractor to be selected by
the Director of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment to conduct a mineral examination of
the mining claims or mill sites contained in
a patent application as set forth in sub-
section (b). The Bureau of Land Management
shall have the sole responsibility to choose
and pay the third-party contractor in ac-
cordance with the standard procedures em-
ployed by the Bureau of Land Management
in the retention of third-party contractors.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, PRIOR YEAR
LIMITATION
SEC. 405. Sections 405 and 406 of division F
of the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113–235)
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2019.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, FISCAL YEAR 2019
LIMITATION
SEC. 406. Amounts provided by this Act for
fiscal year 2019 under the headings ‘‘Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, Indian
Health Service, Contract Support Costs’’ and
‘‘Department of the Interior, Bureau of In-
dian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education,
Contract Support Costs’’ are the only
amounts available for contract support costs
arising out of self-determination or self-gov-
ernance contracts, grants, compacts, or an-
nual funding agreements for fiscal year 2019
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the In-
dian Health Service: Provided, That such
amounts provided by this Act are not avail-
able for payment of claims for contract sup-
port costs for prior years, or for repayments
of payments for settlements or judgments
awarding contract support costs for prior
years.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANS
SEC. 407. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall not be considered to be in violation of
subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely be-
cause more than 15 years have passed with-
out revision of the plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System. Nothing in this sec-
tion exempts the Secretary from any other
requirement of the Forest and Rangeland Re-
newable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C.
1600 et seq.) or any other law: Provided, That
if the Secretary is not acting expeditiously
and in good faith, within the funding avail-
able, to revise a plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System, this section shall be
void with respect to such plan and a court of
proper jurisdiction may order completion of
the plan on an accelerated basis.
PROHIBITION WITHIN NATIONAL MONUMENTS
SEC. 408. No funds provided in this Act may
be expended to conduct preleasing, leasing
and related activities under either the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a Na-
tional Monument established pursuant to
the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.)
as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001,
except where such activities are allowed
under the Presidential proclamation estab-
lishing such monument.
LIMITATION ON TAKINGS
SEC. 409. Unless otherwise provided herein,
no funds appropriated in this Act for the ac-
quisition of lands or interests in lands may
be expended for the filing of declarations of
taking or complaints in condemnation with-
out the approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That this provision shall not apply to funds
appropriated to implement the Everglades
National Park Protection and Expansion Act
of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal
assistance to the State of Florida to acquire
lands for Everglades restoration purposes.
TIMBER SALE REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 410. No timber sale in Alaska’s Region
10 shall be advertised if the indicated rate is
deficit (defined as the value of the timber is
not sufficient to cover all logging and stump-
age costs and provide a normal profit and
risk allowance under the Forest Service’s ap-
praisal process) when appraised using a re-
sidual value appraisal. The western red cedar
timber from those sales which is surplus to
the needs of the domestic processors in Alas-
ka, shall be made available to domestic proc-
essors in the contiguous 48 United States at
prevailing domestic prices. All additional
western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska
or contiguous 48 United States domestic
processors may be exported to foreign mar-
kets at the election of the timber sale hold-
er. All Alaska yellow cedar may be sold at
prevailing export prices at the election of
the timber sale holder.
PROHIBITION ON NO-BID CONTRACTS
SEC. 411. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act to ex-
ecutive branch agencies may be used to enter
into any Federal contract unless such con-
tract is entered into in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United
States Code, and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation, unless—
(1) Federal law specifically authorizes a
contract to be entered into without regard
for these requirements, including formula
grants for States, or federally recognized In-
dian tribes;
(2) such contract is authorized by the In-
dian Self-Determination and Education As-
sistance Act (Public Law 93–638, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that
specifically authorize a contract within an
Indian tribe as defined in section 4(e) of that
Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
(3) such contract was awarded prior to the
date of enactment of this Act.
POSTING OF REPORTS
SEC. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds
made available in this Act, shall, subject to
subsections (b) and (c), post on the public
website of that agency any report required
to be submitted by the Congress in this or
any other Act, upon the determination by
the head of the agency that it shall serve the
national interest.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a re-
port if—
(1) the public posting of the report com-
promises national security; or
(2) the report contains proprietary infor-
mation.
(c) The head of the agency posting such re-
port shall do so only after such report has
been made available to the requesting Com-
mittee or Committees of Congress for no less
than 45 days.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS GRANT
GUIDELINES
SEC. 413. Of the funds provided to the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts—
(1) The Chairperson shall only award a
grant to an individual if such grant is award-
ed to such individual for a literature fellow-
ship, National Heritage Fellowship, or Amer-
ican Jazz Masters Fellowship.
(2) The Chairperson shall establish proce-
dures to ensure that no funding provided
through a grant, except a grant made to a
State or local arts agency, or regional group,
may be used to make a grant to any other
organization or individual to conduct activ-
ity independent of the direct grant recipient.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit
payments made in exchange for goods and
services.
(3) No grant shall be used for seasonal sup-
port to a group, unless the application is spe-
cific to the contents of the season, including
identified programs or projects.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS PROGRAM
PRIORITIES
SEC. 414. (a) In providing services or award-
ing financial assistance under the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under
this Act, the Chairperson of the National En-
dowment for the Arts shall ensure that pri-
ority is given to providing services or award-
ing financial assistance for projects, produc-
tions, workshops, or programs that serve un-
derserved populations.
(b) In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘underserved population’’
means a population of individuals, including
urban minorities, who have historically been
outside the purview of arts and humanities
programs due to factors such as a high inci-
dence of income below the poverty line or to
geographic isolation.
(2) The term ‘‘poverty line’’ means the pov-
erty line (as defined by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and revised annually in ac-
cordance with section 673(2) of the Commu-
nity Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C.
9902(2))) applicable to a family of the size in-
volved.
(c) In providing services and awarding fi-
nancial assistance under the National Foun-
dation on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965 with funds appropriated by this Act, the
Chairperson of the National Endowment for
the Arts shall ensure that priority is given
to providing services or awarding financial
assistance for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that will encourage pub-
lic knowledge, education, understanding, and
appreciation of the arts.
(d) With funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out section 5 of the National Founda-
tion on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965—
(1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant
category for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that are of national im-
pact or availability or are able to tour sev-
eral States;
(2) the Chairperson shall not make grants
exceeding 15 percent, in the aggregate, of
such funds to any single State, excluding
grants made under the authority of para-
graph (1);
(3) the Chairperson shall report to the Con-
gress annually and by State, on grants
awarded by the Chairperson in each grant
category under section 5 of such Act; and
(4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use
of grants to improve and support commu-
nity-based music performance and edu-
cation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S398 January 22, 2019
STATUS OF BALANCES OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 415. The Department of the Interior,
the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Forest Service, and the Indian Health Serv-
ice shall provide the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and Senate quarterly reports on the status of
balances of appropriations including all un-
committed, committed, and unobligated
funds in each program and activity.
PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 416. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act or any other Act may be used to
promulgate or implement any regulation re-
quiring the issuance of permits under title V
of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.)
for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water
vapor, or methane emissions resulting from
biological processes associated with live-
stock production.
GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 417. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement any provision in a rule, if that pro-
vision requires mandatory reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions from manure man-
agement systems.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 418. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to reg-
ulate the lead content of ammunition, am-
munition components, or fishing tackle
under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.
CONTRACTING AUTHORITIES
SEC. 419. Section 412 of Division E of Public
Law 112–74 is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’.
EXTENSION OF GRAZING PERMITS
SEC. 420. The terms and conditions of sec-
tion 325 of Public Law 108–108 (117 Stat. 1307),
regarding grazing permits issued by the For-
est Service on any lands not subject to ad-
ministration under section 402 of the Federal
Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C.
1752), shall remain in effect for fiscal year
2019.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 421. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network is designed to block access to por-
nography websites.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
FOREST SERVICE FACILITY REALIGNMENT AND
ENHANCEMENT ACT
SEC. 422. Section 503(f) of the Forest Serv-
ice Facility Realignment and Enhancement
Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public Law
109–54) is amended by striking ‘‘2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019’’.
USE OF AMERICAN IRON AND STEEL
SEC. 423. (a)(1) None of the funds made
available by a State water pollution control
revolving fund as authorized by section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300j–12) shall be used for a project for the
construction, alteration, maintenance, or re-
pair of a public water system or treatment
works unless all of the iron and steel prod-
ucts used in the project are produced in the
United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and
steel’’ products means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Administrator’’) finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities and of a satisfac-
tory quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Administrator receives a request
for a waiver under this section, the Adminis-
trator shall make available to the public on
an informal basis a copy of the request and
information available to the Administrator
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Administrator shall
make the request and accompanying infor-
mation available by electronic means, in-
cluding on the official public Internet Web
site of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Administrator may retain up to
0.25 percent of the funds appropriated in this
Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provi-
sions described in subsection (a)(1) for man-
agement and oversight of the requirements
of this section.
MIDWAY ISLAND
SEC. 424. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to destroy any
buildings or structures on Midway Island
that have been recommended by the United
States Navy for inclusion in the National
Register of Historic Places (54 U.S.C. 302101).
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER REAUTHORIZATION
SEC. 425. Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy
Center Act (20 U.S.C. 76r) is amended by
striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND SECU-
RITY.—There is authorized to be appropriated
to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H),
$24,490,000 for fiscal year 2019.
‘‘(b) CAPITAL PROJECTS.—There is author-
ized to be appropriated to the Board to carry
out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section
4(a)(1), $16,800,000 for fiscal year 2019.’’.
LOCAL COOPERATOR TRAINING AGREEMENTS AND
TRANSFERS OF EXCESS EQUIPMENT AND SUP-
PLIES FOR WILDFIRES
SEC. 426. The Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to enter into grants and coopera-
tive agreements with volunteer fire depart-
ments, rural fire departments, rangeland fire
protection associations, and similar organi-
zations to provide for wildland fire training
and equipment, including supplies and com-
munication devices. Notwithstanding 121(c)
of title 40, United States Code, or section 521
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary
is further authorized to transfer title to ex-
cess Department of the Interior firefighting
equipment no longer needed to carry out the
functions of the Department’s wildland fire
management program to such organizations.
RECREATION FEES
SEC. 427. Section 810 of the Federal Lands
Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809)
shall be applied by substituting ‘‘October 1,
2020’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
POLICIES RELATING TO BIOMASS ENERGY
SEC. 428. To support the key role that for-
ests in the United States can play in address-
ing the energy needs of the United States,
the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of
Agriculture, and the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall,
consistent with their missions, jointly—
(1) ensure that Federal policy relating to
forest bioenergy—
(A) is consistent across all Federal depart-
ments and agencies; and
(B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of
forest biomass for energy, conservation, and
responsible forest management; and
(2) establish clear and simple policies for
the use of forest biomass as an energy solu-
tion, including policies that—
(A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest
bioenergy and recognize biomass as a renew-
able energy source, provided the use of forest
biomass for energy production does not
cause conversion of forests to non-forest use;
(B) encourage private investment through-
out the forest biomass supply chain, includ-
ing in—
(i) working forests;
(ii) harvesting operations;
(iii) forest improvement operations;
(iv) forest bioenergy production;
(v) wood products manufacturing; or
(vi) paper manufacturing;
(C) encourage forest management to im-
prove forest health; and
(D) recognize State initiatives to produce
and use forest biomass.
INFRASTRUCTURE
SEC. 429. (a) For an additional amount for
‘‘Environmental Protection Agency—Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund’’, $68,000,000, of
which $60,000,000 shall be for the Superfund
Remedial program and $8,000,000 shall be for
the Superfund Emergency Response and Re-
moval program, to remain available until ex-
pended, consisting of such sums as are avail-
able in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018,
as authorized by section 517(a) of the Super-
fund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
of 1986 (SARA) and up to $68,000,000 as a pay-
ment from general revenues to the Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund for purposes as
authorized by section 517(b) of SARA.
(b) For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Protection Agency—State and Tribal
Assistance Grants,’’ for environmental pro-
grams and infrastructure assistance, includ-
ing capitalization grants for State revolving
funds and performance partnership grants,
$665,000,000 to remain available until ex-
pended, of which—
(1) $300,000,000 shall be for making capital-
ization grants for the Clean Water State Re-
volving Funds under title VI of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act; and of which
$300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization
grants for the Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Funds under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act;
(2) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for small
and disadvantaged communities authorized
in section 2104 of the Water Infrastructure
Improvements for the Nation Act (Public
Law 114–322);
(3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for lead
testing in school and child care program
drinking water authorized in section 2107 of
the Water Infrastructure Improvements for
the Nation Act (Public Law 114–322);
(4) $15,000,000 shall be for grants for reduc-
ing lead in drinking water authorized in sec-
tion 2105 of the Water Infrastructure Im-
provements for the Nation Act (Public Law
114–322).
(c) For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Protection Agency—Water Infra-
structure Finance and Innovation Program
Account’’, $58,000,000, to remain available
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S399
January 22, 2019
until expended, for the cost of direct loans,
for the cost of guaranteed loans, and for ad-
ministrative expenses to carry out the direct
and guaranteed loan programs, of which
$3,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, may be used for such admin-
istrative expenses: Provided, That these addi-
tional funds are available to subsidize gross
obligations for the principal amount of di-
rect loans, including capitalized interest,
and total loan principal, including capital-
ized interest, any part of which is to be guar-
anteed, not to exceed $6,700,000,000.
SMALL REMOTE INCINERATORS
SEC. 430. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to implement or en-
force the regulation issued on March 21, 2011
at 40 CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD
with respect to units in the State of Alaska
that are defined as ‘‘small, remote inciner-
ator’’ units in those regulations and, until a
subsequent regulation is issued, the Admin-
istrator shall implement the law and regula-
tions in effect prior to such date.
CLARIFICATION OF EXEMPTIONS
SEC. 431. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to require a permit
for the discharge of dredged or fill material
under the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for the activities
identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of
section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C.
1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION F—DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED
PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED
AGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Department
of State and the Foreign Service not other-
wise provided for, $5,947,952,000, of which up
to $671,726,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020, and of which up to
$1,469,777,000 may remain available until ex-
pended for Worldwide Security Protection:
Provided, That funds made available under
this heading shall be allocated in accordance
with paragraphs (1) through (4) as follows:
(1) HUMAN RESOURCES.—For necessary ex-
penses for training, human resources man-
agement, and salaries, including employ-
ment without regard to civil service and
classification laws of persons on a temporary
basis (not to exceed $700,000), as authorized
by section 801 of the United States Informa-
tion and Educational Exchange Act of 1948,
$2,871,794,000, of which up to $528,000,000 is for
Worldwide Security Protection.
(2) OVERSEAS PROGRAMS.—For necessary
expenses for the regional bureaus of the De-
partment of State and overseas activities as
authorized by law, $1,338,227,000.
(3) DIPLOMATIC POLICY AND SUPPORT.—For
necessary expenses for the functional bu-
reaus of the Department of State, including
representation to certain international orga-
nizations in which the United States partici-
pates pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant
to the advice and consent of the Senate or
specific Acts of Congress, general adminis-
tration, and arms control, nonproliferation
and disarmament activities as authorized,
$773,847,000.
(4) SECURITY PROGRAMS.—For necessary ex-
penses for security activities, $964,084,000, of
which up to $941,777,000 is for Worldwide Se-
curity Protection.
(5) FEES AND PAYMENTS COLLECTED.—In ad-
dition to amounts otherwise made available
under this heading—
(A) as authorized by section 810 of the
United States Information and Educational
Exchange Act, not to exceed $5,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, may be cred-
ited to this appropriation from fees or other
payments received from English teaching, li-
brary, motion pictures, and publication pro-
grams and from fees from educational advis-
ing and counseling and exchange visitor pro-
grams; and
(B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be de-
rived from reimbursements, surcharges, and
fees for use of Blair House facilities.
(6) TRANSFER OF FUNDS, REPROGRAMMING,
AND OTHER MATTERS.—
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, funds may be reprogrammed within
and between paragraphs (1) through (4) under
this heading subject to section 7015 of this
Act.
(B) Of the amount made available under
this heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Con-
sular Service’’, to be available only for emer-
gency evacuations and rewards, as author-
ized.
(C) Funds appropriated under this heading
are available for acquisition by exchange or
purchase of passenger motor vehicles as au-
thorized by law and, pursuant to section
1108(g) of title 31, United States Code, for the
field examination of programs and activities
in the United States funded from any ac-
count contained in this title.
(D) Funds appropriated under this heading
that are designated for Worldwide Security
Protection shall continue to be made avail-
able for support of security-related training
at sites in existence prior to the enactment
of this Act.
(7) CLARIFICATION.—References to the ‘‘Dip-
lomatic and Consular Programs’’ account in
any provision of law shall be construed to in-
clude the ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ account in
this Act and other Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Capital In-
vestment Fund, as authorized, $92,770,000, to
remain available until expended.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $90,829,000, notwithstanding
section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service Act
of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(a)(1)), as it relates to
post inspections: Provided, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, $13,624,000
may remain available until September 30,
2020.
EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE
PROGRAMS
For expenses of educational and cultural
exchange programs, as authorized,
$700,946,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not less than $271,500,000
shall be for the Fulbright Program and not
less than $111,860,000 shall be for Citizen Ex-
change Program: Provided, That fees or other
payments received from, or in connection
with, English teaching, educational advising
and counseling programs, and exchange vis-
itor programs as authorized may be credited
to this account, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That a portion of
the Fulbright awards from the Eurasia and
Central Asia regions shall be designated as
Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That any sub-
stantive modifications from the prior fiscal
year to programs funded by this Act under
this heading shall be subject to prior con-
sultation with, and the regular notification
procedures of, the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
REPRESENTATION EXPENSES
For representation expenses as authorized,
$8,030,000.
PROTECTION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AND
OFFICIALS
For expenses, not otherwise provided, to
enable the Secretary of State to provide for
extraordinary protective services, as author-
ized, $30,890,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
EMBASSY SECURITY, CONSTRUCTION, AND
MAINTENANCE
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the Foreign Service Buildings Act of 1926 (22
U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining,
repairing, and planning for real property
that are owned or leased by the Department
of State, and renovating, in addition to funds
otherwise available, the Harry S Truman
Building, $777,200,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which not to ex-
ceed $25,000 may be used for overseas rep-
resentation expenses as authorized: Provided,
That none of the funds appropriated in this
paragraph shall be available for acquisition
of furniture, furnishings, or generators for
other departments and agencies of the
United States Government.
In addition, for the costs of worldwide se-
curity upgrades, acquisition, and construc-
tion as authorized, $1,198,249,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That not
later than 45 days after enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations the pro-
posed allocation of funds made available
under this heading and the actual and antici-
pated proceeds of sales or gifts for all
projects in fiscal year 2019.
EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND
CONSULAR SERVICE
For necessary expenses to enable the Sec-
retary of State to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies arising in the Diplomatic and Con-
sular Service, as authorized, $7,885,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which not
to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Repatriation Loans
Program Account’’: Provided, That $800,000 of
the funds appropriated under this heading
may not be obligated until the Secretary of
State testifies before the Committees on Ap-
propriations concerning the fiscal year 2020
budget request for the Department of State:
Provided further, That the limitation of the
previous proviso shall not apply if such funds
are necessary for emergency evacuations and
the payment of rewards for information re-
lated to international terrorism, narcotics
related activities, transnational organized
crime, and war crimes as authorized by sec-
tion 36 of the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708).
REPATRIATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as
authorized: Provided, That such costs, includ-
ing the cost of modifying such loans, shall be
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That
such funds are available to subsidize gross
obligations for the principal amount of di-
rect loans not to exceed $5,686,032.
PAYMENT TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE IN
TAIWAN
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96–8),
$31,963,000.
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, WASHINGTON,
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived
from fees collected from other executive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S400 January 22, 2019
agencies for lease or use of facilities at the
International Center in accordance with sec-
tion 4 of the International Center Act (Pub-
lic Law 90–553), and, in addition, as author-
ized by section 5 of such Act, $743,000, to be
derived from the reserve authorized by such
section, to be used for the purposes set out in
that section.
PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND
For payment to the Foreign Service Re-
tirement and Disability Fund, as authorized,
$158,900,000.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, to meet annual obligations of
membership in international multilateral or-
ganizations, pursuant to treaties ratified
pursuant to the advice and consent of the
Senate, conventions, or specific Acts of Con-
gress, $1,264,030,000: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of State shall, at the time of the sub-
mission of the President’s budget to Con-
gress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, transmit to the Committees on
Appropriations the most recent biennial
budget prepared by the United Nations for
the operations of the United Nations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of State
shall notify the Committees on Appropria-
tions at least 15 days in advance (or in an
emergency, as far in advance as is prac-
ticable) of any United Nations action to in-
crease funding for any United Nations pro-
gram without identifying an offsetting de-
crease elsewhere in the United Nations budg-
et: Provided further, That not later than May
1, 2019, and 30 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary of State shall report
to the Committees on Appropriations any
credits attributable to the United States, in-
cluding from the United Nations Tax Equali-
zation Fund, and provide updated fiscal year
2019 and fiscal year 2020 assessment costs in-
cluding offsets from available credits and up-
dated foreign currency exchange rates: Pro-
vided further, That any such credits shall
only be available for United States assessed
contributions to the United Nations regular
budget, and the Committees on Appropria-
tions shall be notified when such credits are
applied to any assessed contribution, includ-
ing any payment of arrearages: Provided fur-
ther, That any notification regarding funds
appropriated or otherwise made available
under this heading in this Act or prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams submitted pursuant to section 7015 of
this Act, section 34 of the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706),
or any operating plan submitted pursuant to
section 7070 of this Act, shall include an esti-
mate of all known credits currently attrib-
utable to the United States and provide up-
dated assessment costs including offsets
from available credits and updated foreign
currency exchange rates: Provided further,
That any payment of arrearages under this
heading shall be directed to activities that
are mutually agreed upon by the United
States and the respective international orga-
nization and shall be subject to the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations: Provided further, That
none of the funds appropriated under this
heading shall be available for a United
States contribution to an international orga-
nization for the United States share of inter-
est costs made known to the United States
Government by such organization for loans
incurred on or after October 1, 1984, through
external borrowings.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES
For necessary expenses to pay assessed and
other expenses of international peacekeeping
activities directed to the maintenance or
restoration of international peace and secu-
rity, $562,344,000, of which 15 percent shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds made available
by this Act shall be obligated or expended for
any new or expanded United Nations peace-
keeping mission unless, at least 15 days in
advance of voting for such mission in the
United Nations Security Council (or in an
emergency as far in advance as is prac-
ticable), the Committees on Appropriations
are notified of: (1) the estimated cost and du-
ration of the mission, the objectives of the
mission, the national interest that will be
served, and the exit strategy; and (2) the
sources of funds, including any
reprogrammings or transfers, that will be
used to pay the cost of the new or expanded
mission, and the estimated cost in future fis-
cal years: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated under this heading may
be made available for obligation unless the
Secretary of State certifies and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations on a
peacekeeping mission-by-mission basis that
the United Nations is implementing effective
policies and procedures to prevent United
Nations employees, contractor personnel,
and peacekeeping troops serving in such mis-
sion from trafficking in persons, exploiting
victims of trafficking, or committing acts of
sexual exploitation and abuse or other viola-
tions of human rights, and to hold account-
able individuals who engage in such acts
while participating in such mission, includ-
ing prosecution in their home countries and
making information about such prosecutions
publicly available on the website of the
United Nations: Provided further, That the
Secretary of State shall work with the
United Nations and foreign governments
contributing peacekeeping troops to imple-
ment effective vetting procedures to ensure
that such troops have not violated human
rights: Provided further, That funds shall be
available for peacekeeping expenses unless
the Secretary of State determines that
United States manufacturers and suppliers
are not being given opportunities to provide
equipment, services, and material for United
Nations peacekeeping activities equal to
those being given to foreign manufacturers
and suppliers: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available under this heading may be used for
any United Nations peacekeeping mission
that will involve United States Armed
Forces under the command or operational
control of a foreign national, unless the
President’s military advisors have submitted
to the President a recommendation that
such involvement is in the national interest
of the United States and the President has
submitted to Congress such a recommenda-
tion: Provided further, That not later than
May 1, 2019, and 30 days after the end of fis-
cal year 2019, the Secretary of State shall re-
port to the Committees on Appropriations
any credits attributable to the United
States, including those resulting from
United Nations peacekeeping missions or the
United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and
provide updated fiscal year 2019 and fiscal
year 2020 assessment costs including offsets
from available credits: Provided further, That
any such credits shall only be available for
United States assessed contributions to
United Nations peacekeeping missions, and
the Committees on Appropriations shall be
notified when such credits are applied to any
assessed contribution, including any pay-
ment of arrearages: Provided further, That
any notification regarding funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under
this heading in this Act or prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams submitted pursuant to section 7015 of
this Act, section 34 of the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706),
or any operating plan submitted pursuant to
section 7070 of this Act, shall include an esti-
mate of all known credits currently attrib-
utable to the United States and provide up-
dated assessment costs, including offsets
from available credits: Provided further, That
any payment of arrearages with funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That the Secretary of State shall work with
the United Nations and members of the
United Nations Security Council to evaluate
and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and to
consider a draw down when mission goals
have been substantially achieved.
INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, to meet obligations of the United
States arising under treaties, or specific
Acts of Congress, as follows:
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER
COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO
For necessary expenses for the United
States Section of the International Bound-
ary and Water Commission, United States
and Mexico, and to comply with laws appli-
cable to the United States Section, including
not to exceed $6,000 for representation ex-
penses; as follows:
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries and expenses, not otherwise
provided for, $48,134,000.
CONSTRUCTION
For detailed plan preparation and con-
struction of authorized projects, $29,400,000,
to remain available until expended, as au-
thorized.
AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL
COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided, for the International Joint Commis-
sion and the International Boundary Com-
mission, United States and Canada, as au-
thorized by treaties between the United
States and Canada or Great Britain, and the
Border Environment Cooperation Commis-
sion as authorized by the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(Public Law 103–182), $13,258,000: Provided,
That of the amount provided under this
heading for the International Joint Commis-
sion, up to $500,000 may remain available
until September 30, 2020, and $9,000 may be
made available for representation expenses:
Provided further, That of the amount pro-
vided under this heading for the Inter-
national Boundary Commission, $1,000 may
be made available for representation ex-
penses.
INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses for international
fisheries commissions, not otherwise pro-
vided for, as authorized by law, $50,651,000:
Provided, That the United States share of
such expenses may be advanced to the re-
spective commissions pursuant to section
3324 of title 31, United States Code.
RELATED AGENCY
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to enable the
Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), as
authorized, to carry out international com-
munication activities, and to make and su-
pervise grants for radio, Internet, and tele-
vision broadcasting to the Middle East,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S401
January 22, 2019
$798,196,000: Provided, That in addition to
amounts otherwise available for such pur-
poses, up to $34,508,000 of the amount appro-
priated under this heading may remain
available until expended for satellite trans-
missions and Internet freedom programs, of
which not less than $13,800,000 shall be for
Internet freedom programs: Provided further,
That of the total amount appropriated under
this heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be
used for representation expenses, of which
$10,000 may be used for such expenses within
the United States as authorized, and not to
exceed $30,000 may be used for representation
expenses of Radio Free Europe/Radio Lib-
erty: Provided further, That the BBG shall
notify the Committees on Appropriations
within 15 days of any determination by the
BBG that any of its broadcast entities, in-
cluding its grantee organizations, provides
an open platform for international terrorists
or those who support international ter-
rorism, or is in violation of the principles
and standards set forth in subsections (a)
and (b) of section 303 of the United States
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22
U.S.C. 6202) or the entity’s journalistic code
of ethics: Provided further, That significant
modifications to BBG broadcast hours pre-
viously justified to Congress, including
changes to transmission platforms (short-
wave, medium wave, satellite, Internet, and
television), for all BBG language services
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That in addition to
funds made available under this heading, and
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising
and revenue from business ventures, up to
$500,000 in receipts from cooperating inter-
national organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in
receipts from privatization efforts of the
Voice of America and the International
Broadcasting Bureau, shall remain available
until expended for carrying out authorized
purposes.
BROADCASTING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
For the purchase, rent, construction, re-
pair, preservation, and improvement of fa-
cilities for radio, television, and digital
transmission and reception; the purchase,
rent, and installation of necessary equip-
ment for radio, television, and digital trans-
mission and reception, including to Cuba, as
authorized; and physical security worldwide,
in addition to amounts otherwise available
for such purposes, $9,700,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, as authorized.
RELATED PROGRAMS
THE ASIA FOUNDATION
For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as au-
thorized by The Asia Foundation Act (22
U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be appor-
tioned and obligated to the Foundation not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE
For necessary expenses of the United
States Institute of Peace, as authorized by
the United States Institute of Peace Act (22
U.S.C. 4601 et seq.), $38,634,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, which
shall not be used for construction activities.
CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN-WESTERN
DIALOGUE TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses of the Center for
Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust
Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the De-
partments of Commerce, Justice, and State,
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total
amount of the interest and earnings accruing
to such Fund on or before September 30, 2019,
to remain available until expended.
EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Ex-
change Fellowships, Incorporated, as author-
ized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C.
5204–5205), all interest and earnings accruing
to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Pro-
gram Trust Fund on or before September 30,
2019, to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds appropriated
herein shall be used to pay any salary or
other compensation, or to enter into any
contract providing for the payment thereof,
in excess of the rate authorized by section
5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for pur-
poses which are not in accordance with sec-
tion 200 of title 2 of the Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, including the restrictions on com-
pensation for personal services.
ISRAELI ARAB SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab
Scholarship Program, as authorized by sec-
tion 214 of the Foreign Relations Authoriza-
tion Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C.
2452 note), all interest and earnings accruing
to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or
before September 30, 2019, to remain avail-
able until expended.
EAST-WEST CENTER
To enable the Secretary of State to provide
for carrying out the provisions of the Center
for Cultural and Technical Interchange Be-
tween East and West Act of 1960, by grant to
the Center for Cultural and Technical Inter-
change Between East and West in the State
of Hawaii, $16,700,000: Provided, That funds
appropriated under this heading shall be ap-
portioned and obligated to the Center not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
For grants made by the Department of
State to the National Endowment for De-
mocracy, as authorized by the National En-
dowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412),
$180,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $117,500,000 shall be allo-
cated in the traditional and customary man-
ner, including for the core institutes, and
$62,500,000 shall be for democracy programs:
Provided, That the requirements of section
7070(a) of this Act shall not apply to funds
made available under this heading: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be apportioned and obligated
to the Endowment not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act.
OTHER COMMISSIONS
COMMISSION FOR THE PRESERVATION OF
AMERICA’S HERITAGE ABROAD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Commission
for the Preservation of America’s Heritage
Abroad, $675,000, as authorized by chapter
3123 of title 54, United States Code: Provided,
That the Commission may procure tem-
porary, intermittent, and other services not-
withstanding paragraph (3) of section
312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further,
That such authority shall terminate on Oc-
tober 1, 2019: Provided further, That the Com-
mission shall notify the Committees on Ap-
propriations prior to exercising such author-
ity.
UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON
INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the United
States Commission on International Reli-
gious Freedom (USCIRF), as authorized by
title II of the International Religious Free-
dom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.),
$4,500,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, including not more than
$4,000 for representation expenses: Provided,
That prior to the obligation of $1,000,000 of
the funds appropriated under this heading,
the Commission shall consult with the ap-
propriate congressional committees on the
steps taken to implement the recommenda-
tions of the Independent Review of USCIRF
Mission Effectiveness that was conducted
pursuant to the United States Commission
on International Religious Freedom Reau-
thorization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–71),
and such funds shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN
EUROPE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Commission
on Security and Cooperation in Europe, as
authorized by Public Law 94–304 (22 U.S.C.
3001 et seq.), $2,579,000, including not more
than $4,000 for representation expenses, to
remain available until September 30, 2020.
CONGRESSIONAL-EXECUTIVE COMMISSION ON
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Congres-
sional-Executive Commission on the People’s
Republic of China, as authorized by title III
of the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, including not
more than $3,000 for representation expenses,
to remain available until September 30, 2020.
UNITED STATES-CHINA ECONOMIC AND
SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States-China Economic and Security Review
Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more
than $4,000 for representation expenses, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That the authorities, requirements,
limitations, and conditions contained in the
second through sixth provisos under this
heading in the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall continue in effect during fiscal
year 2019 and shall apply to funds appro-
priated under this heading as if included in
this Act.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE DRUG POLICY
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Western
Hemisphere Drug Policy Commission, as au-
thorized by title VI of the Department of
State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub-
lic Law 114–323), $1,500,000 to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
TITLE II
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 667 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $1,214,808,000, of which
up to $182,221,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
and under the heading ‘‘Capital Investment
Fund’’ in this title may be made available to
finance the construction (including architect
and engineering services), purchase, or long-
term lease of offices for use by the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, unless the USAID Administrator has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S402 January 22, 2019
identified such proposed use of funds in a re-
port submitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations at least 15 days prior to the obliga-
tion of funds for such purposes: Provided fur-
ther, That contracts or agreements entered
into with funds appropriated under this
heading may entail commitments for the ex-
penditure of such funds through the fol-
lowing fiscal year: Provided further, That the
authority of sections 610 and 109 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 may be exercised
by the Secretary of State to transfer funds
appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I
of such Act to ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ in ac-
cordance with the provisions of those sec-
tions: Provided further, That of the funds ap-
propriated or made available under this
heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be avail-
able for representation and entertainment
expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may
be available for entertainment expenses, and
not to exceed $100,500 shall be for official res-
idence expenses, for USAID during the cur-
rent fiscal year.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND
For necessary expenses for overseas con-
struction and related costs, and for the pro-
curement and enhancement of information
technology and related capital investments,
pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, $225,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That this
amount is in addition to funds otherwise
available for such purposes: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
shall be available subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 667 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $76,600,000, of which up
to $11,490,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020, for the Office of Inspector
General of the United States Agency for
International Development.
TITLE III
BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
For necessary expenses to enable the Presi-
dent to carry out the provisions of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other
purposes, as follows:
GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of chapters 1 and 10 of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global
health activities, in addition to funds other-
wise available for such purposes,
$3,117,450,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and which shall be appor-
tioned directly to the United States Agency
for International Development: Provided,
That this amount shall be made available for
training, equipment, and technical assist-
ance to build the capacity of public health
institutions and organizations in developing
countries, and for such activities as: (1) child
survival and maternal health programs; (2)
immunization and oral rehydration pro-
grams; (3) other health, nutrition, water and
sanitation programs which directly address
the needs of mothers and children, and re-
lated education programs; (4) assistance for
children displaced or orphaned by causes
other than AIDS; (5) programs for the pre-
vention, treatment, control of, and research
on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria,
and other infectious diseases including ne-
glected tropical diseases, and for assistance
to communities severely affected by HIV/
AIDS, including children infected or affected
by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness training
for health crises; (7) programs to prevent,
prepare for, and respond to, unanticipated
and emerging global health threats; and (8)
family planning/reproductive health: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this paragraph may be made available for a
United States contribution to the GAVI Alli-
ance: Provided further, That none of the funds
made available in this Act nor any unobli-
gated balances from prior appropriations
Acts may be made available to any organiza-
tion or program which, as determined by the
President of the United States, supports or
participates in the management of a pro-
gram of coercive abortion or involuntary
sterilization: Provided further, That any de-
termination made under the previous proviso
must be made not later than 6 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, and must
be accompanied by the evidence and criteria
utilized to make the determination: Provided
further, That none of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
the performance of abortion as a method of
family planning or to motivate or coerce any
person to practice abortions: Provided fur-
ther, That nothing in this paragraph shall be
construed to alter any existing statutory
prohibitions against abortion under section
104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds made
available under this Act may be used to
lobby for or against abortion: Provided fur-
ther, That in order to reduce reliance on
abortion in developing nations, funds shall
be available only to voluntary family plan-
ning projects which offer, either directly or
through referral to, or information about ac-
cess to, a broad range of family planning
methods and services, and that any such vol-
untary family planning project shall meet
the following requirements: (1) service pro-
viders or referral agents in the project shall
not implement or be subject to quotas, or
other numerical targets, of total number of
births, number of family planning acceptors,
or acceptors of a particular method of family
planning (this provision shall not be con-
strued to include the use of quantitative es-
timates or indicators for budgeting and plan-
ning purposes); (2) the project shall not in-
clude payment of incentives, bribes, gratu-
ities, or financial reward to: (A) an indi-
vidual in exchange for becoming a family
planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel
for achieving a numerical target or quota of
total number of births, number of family
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a par-
ticular method of family planning; (3) the
project shall not deny any right or benefit,
including the right of access to participate
in any program of general welfare or the
right of access to health care, as a con-
sequence of any individual’s decision not to
accept family planning services; (4) the
project shall provide family planning accep-
tors comprehensible information on the
health benefits and risks of the method cho-
sen, including those conditions that might
render the use of the method inadvisable and
those adverse side effects known to be con-
sequent to the use of the method; and (5) the
project shall ensure that experimental con-
traceptive drugs and devices and medical
procedures are provided only in the context
of a scientific study in which participants
are advised of potential risks and benefits;
and, not less than 60 days after the date on
which the USAID Administrator determines
that there has been a violation of the re-
quirements contained in paragraph (1), (2),
(3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or
practice of violations of the requirements
contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso,
the Administrator shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a report con-
taining a description of such violation and
the corrective action taken by the Agency:
Provided further, That in awarding grants for
natural family planning under section 104 of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no appli-
cant shall be discriminated against because
of such applicant’s religious or conscientious
commitment to offer only natural family
planning; and, additionally, all such appli-
cants shall comply with the requirements of
the previous proviso: Provided further, That
for purposes of this or any other Act author-
izing or appropriating funds for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, the term ‘‘motivate’’, as it
relates to family planning assistance, shall
not be construed to prohibit the provision,
consistent with local law, of information or
counseling about all pregnancy options: Pro-
vided further, That information provided
about the use of condoms as part of projects
or activities that are funded from amounts
appropriated by this Act shall be medically
accurate and shall include the public health
benefits and failure rates of such use.
In addition, for necessary expenses to
carry out the provisions of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treat-
ment, and control of, and research on, HIV/
AIDS, $5,720,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, which shall be appor-
tioned directly to the Department of State:
Provided, That funds appropriated under this
paragraph may be made available, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, except
for the United States Leadership Against
HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of
2003 (Public Law 108–25), for a United States
contribution to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global
Fund), and shall be expended at the min-
imum rate necessary to make timely pay-
ment for projects and activities: Provided
further, That the amount of such contribu-
tion should be $1,350,000,000: Provided further,
That clauses (i) and (vi) of section
202(d)(4)(A) of the United States Leadership
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Ma-
laria Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7622) shall be ap-
plied with respect to such funds made avail-
able for fiscal years 2015 through 2019 by sub-
stituting ‘‘2004’’ for ‘‘2009’’: Provided further,
That up to 5 percent of the aggregate
amount of funds made available to the Glob-
al Fund in fiscal year 2019 may be made
available to USAID for technical assistance
related to the activities of the Global Fund,
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this paragraph, up to
$17,000,000 may be made available, in addi-
tion to amounts otherwise available for such
purposes, for administrative expenses of the
Office of the United States Global AIDS Co-
ordinator.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of sections 103, 105, 106, 214, and
sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
$3,000,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 491 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 for international disaster
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction as-
sistance, $3,801,034,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such funds
shall be apportioned to the United States
Agency for International Development not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
TRANSITION INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for international
disaster rehabilitation and reconstruction
assistance administered by the Office of
Transition Initiatives, United States Agency
for International Development, pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S403
January 22, 2019
section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, $30,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to support transition to democracy
and long-term development of countries in
crisis: Provided, That such support may in-
clude assistance to develop, strengthen, or
preserve democratic institutions and proc-
esses, revitalize basic infrastructure, and fos-
ter the peaceful resolution of conflict: Pro-
vided further, That the USAID Administrator
shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations at least 5 days prior to begin-
ning a new program of assistance: Provided
further, That if the Secretary of State deter-
mines that it is important to the national
interest of the United States to provide tran-
sition assistance in excess of the amount ap-
propriated under this heading, up to
$15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this
Act to carry out the provisions of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be
used for purposes of this heading and under
the authorities applicable to funds appro-
priated under this heading: Provided further,
That funds made available pursuant to the
previous proviso shall be made available sub-
ject to prior consultation with the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
COMPLEX CRISES FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 to support programs and activities ad-
ministered by the United States Agency for
International Development to prevent or re-
spond to emerging or unforeseen foreign
challenges and complex crises overseas,
$30,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds appropriated
under this heading may be made available on
such terms and conditions as are appropriate
and necessary for the purposes of preventing
or responding to such challenges and crises,
except that no funds shall be made available
for lethal assistance or to respond to natural
disasters: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated under this heading may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and
7018 of this Act and section 620M of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
may be used for administrative expenses, in
addition to funds otherwise available for
such purposes, except that such expenses
may not exceed 5 percent of the funds appro-
priated under this heading: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
shall be apportioned to USAID not later than
60 days after enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations, except that such notifica-
tions shall be transmitted at least 5 days
prior to the obligation of funds.
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AUTHORITY
For the cost of direct loans and loan guar-
antees provided by the United States Agency
for International Development, as authorized
by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, up to $55,000,000 may be de-
rived by transfer from funds appropriated by
this Act to carry out part I of such Act and
under the heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe,
Eurasia and Central Asia’’: Provided, That
funds provided under this paragraph and
funds provided as a gift that are used for pur-
poses of this paragraph pursuant to section
635(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
shall be made available only for micro- and
small enterprise programs, urban programs,
and other programs which further the pur-
poses of part I of such Act: Provided further,
That funds provided as a gift that are used
for purposes of this paragraph shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with, and the reg-
ular notification procedures of, the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such direct and guaranteed loans, shall
be as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available by
this paragraph may be used for the cost of
modifying any such guaranteed loans under
this Act or prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs, and funds used
for such cost, including if the cost results in
a negative subsidy, shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relat-
ing to general provisions applicable to the
Development Credit Authority) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in
section 306 of H.R. 1486 as reported by the
House Committee on International Relations
on May 9, 1997, shall be applicable to direct
loans and loan guarantees provided under
this heading, except that the principal
amount of loans made or guaranteed under
this heading with respect to any single coun-
try shall not exceed $300,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That these funds are available to sub-
sidize total loan principal, any portion of
which is to be guaranteed, of up to
$1,750,000,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out credit programs administered by
USAID, $10,000,000, which may be transferred
to, and merged with, funds made available
under the heading ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ in
title II of this Act: Provided, That funds
made available under this heading shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds appropriated
under this paragraph in this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs for administrative expenses
to carry out credit programs administered
by USAID, up to $1,000,000 may be made
available for limited transition costs associ-
ated with the implementation of section 1463
of the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development (BUILD) Act of 2018
(division F of Public Law 115–254): Provided
further, That prior to the initial obligation of
funds made available for such transition
costs, the USAID Administrator shall submit
a spend plan to the Committees on Appro-
priations for the use of such funds: Provided
further, That funds made available for such
transition costs shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations, and may not be made
available until the reorganization plan re-
quired by section 1462(a) of the BUILD Act of
2018 is transmitted to Congress.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,545,525,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020.
DEMOCRACY FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 for the promotion of democracy glob-
ally, including to carry out the purposes of
section 502(b)(3) and (5) of Public Law 98–164
(22 U.S.C. 4411), $157,700,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, which shall be
made available for the Human Rights and
Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department
of State: Provided, That funds appropriated
under this heading that are made available
to the National Endowment for Democracy
and its core institutes are in addition to
amounts otherwise available by this Act for
such purposes: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary for Democracy, Human
Rights, and Labor, Department of State,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations prior to the obligation of funds ap-
propriated under this paragraph.
For an additional amount for such pur-
poses, $69,500,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, which shall be made
available for the Bureau for Democracy,
Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance,
United States Agency for International De-
velopment.
ASSISTANCE FOR EUROPE, EURASIA AND
CENTRAL ASIA
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law
102–511), and the Support for Eastern Euro-
pean Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101–179), $760,334,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, which shall be
available, notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, except section 7047 of this Act,
for assistance and related programs for coun-
tries identified in section 3 of Public Law
102–511 (22 U.S.C. 5801) and section 3(c) of
Public Law 101–179 (22 U.S.C. 5402), in addi-
tion to funds otherwise available for such
purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Global
Health Programs’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, and ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’ that are made avail-
able for assistance for such countries shall
be administered in accordance with the re-
sponsibilities of the coordinator designated
pursuant to section 102 of Public Law 102–511
and section 601 of Public Law 101–179: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading shall be considered to be eco-
nomic assistance under the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 for purposes of making
available the administrative authorities con-
tained in that Act for the use of economic
assistance: Provided further, That any notifi-
cation of funds made available under this
heading in this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations and related programs
shall include information (if known on the
date of transmittal of such notification) on
the use of notwithstanding authority: Pro-
vided further, That if subsequent to the noti-
fication of assistance it becomes necessary
to rely on notwithstanding authority, the
Committees on Appropriations should be in-
formed at the earliest opportunity and to the
extent practicable.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses not otherwise pro-
vided for, to enable the Secretary of State to
carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and
(b) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance
Act of 1962, and other activities to meet ref-
ugee and migration needs; salaries and ex-
penses of personnel and dependents as au-
thorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980;
allowances as authorized by sections 5921
through 5925 of title 5, United States Code;
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles; and services as authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code,
$2,027,876,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not less than $35,000,000
shall be made available to respond to small-
scale emergency humanitarian require-
ments, and $5,000,000 shall be made available
for refugees resettling in Israel.
UNITED STATES EMERGENCY REFUGEE AND
MIGRATION ASSISTANCE FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 2(c) of the Migration
and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)), $1,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That amounts in excess of the limitation
contained in paragraph (2) of such section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S404 January 22, 2019
shall be transferred to, and merged with,
funds made available by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Migration and Refugee Assist-
ance’’.
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
PEACE CORPS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C.
2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for ad-
ministrative purposes for use outside of the
United States, $410,500,000, of which $6,000,000
is for the Office of Inspector General, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Director of the Peace Corps
may transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluc-
tuations Account, as authorized by section
16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an
amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That funds transferred pursuant to the
previous proviso may not be derived from
amounts made available for Peace Corps
overseas operations: Provided further, That of
the funds appropriated under this heading,
not to exceed $104,000 may be available for
representation expenses, of which not to ex-
ceed $4,000 may be made available for enter-
tainment expenses: Provided further, That
none of the funds appropriated under this
heading shall be used to pay for abortions:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
previous proviso, section 614 of division E of
Public Law 113–76 shall apply to funds appro-
priated under this heading.
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Millennium Challenge Act
of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA),
$905,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, up to $105,000,000
may be available for administrative expenses
of the Millennium Challenge Corporation:
Provided further, That section 605(e) of the
MCA shall apply to funds appropriated under
this heading: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated under this heading may be made
available for a Millennium Challenge Com-
pact entered into pursuant to section 609 of
the MCA only if such Compact obligates, or
contains a commitment to obligate subject
to the availability of funds and the mutual
agreement of the parties to the Compact to
proceed, the entire amount of the United
States Government funding anticipated for
the duration of the Compact: Provided fur-
ther, That no country should be eligible for a
threshold program after such country has
completed a country compact: Provided fur-
ther, That any funds that are deobligated
from a Millennium Challenge Compact shall
be subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations
prior to re-obligation: Provided further, That
of the funds appropriated under this heading,
not to exceed $100,000 may be available for
representation and entertainment expenses,
of which not to exceed $5,000 may be avail-
able for entertainment expenses.
INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
functions of the Inter-American Foundation
in accordance with the provisions of section
401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969,
$22,500,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $2,000 may be available for representa-
tion expenses.
UNITED STATES AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
African Development Foundation Act (title
V of Public Law 96–533; 22 U.S.C. 290h et
seq.), $30,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which not to exceed
$2,000 may be available for representation ex-
penses: Provided, That funds made available
to grantees may be invested pending expend-
iture for project purposes when authorized
by the Board of Directors of the United
States African Development Foundation
(USADF): Provided further, That interest
earned shall be used only for the purposes for
which the grant was made: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the
African Development Foundation Act (22
U.S.C. 290h–3(a)(2)), in exceptional cir-
cumstances the Board of Directors of the
USADF may waive the $250,000 limitation
contained in that section with respect to a
project and a project may exceed the limita-
tion by up to 10 percent if the increase is due
solely to foreign currency fluctuation: Pro-
vided further, That the USADF shall submit
a report to the appropriate congressional
committees after each time such waiver au-
thority is exercised: Provided further, That
the USADF may make rent or lease pay-
ments in advance from appropriations avail-
able for such purpose for offices, buildings,
grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be
necessary to carry out its functions: Provided
further, That the USADF may maintain bank
accounts outside the United States Treasury
and retain any interest earned on such ac-
counts, in furtherance of the purposes of the
African Development Foundation Act: Pro-
vided further, That the USADF may not with-
draw any appropriation from the Treasury
prior to the need of spending such funds for
program purposes.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 129 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain
available until expended, of which not more
than $6,000,000 may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided, That amounts made
available under this heading may be made
available to contract for services as de-
scribed in section 129(d)(3)(A) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to the
location in which such services are per-
formed.
TITLE IV
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses to carry out sec-
tion 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, $1,497,469,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That the De-
partment of State may use the authority of
section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, without regard to its restrictions, to re-
ceive excess property from an agency of the
United States Government for the purpose of
providing such property to a foreign country
or international organization under chapter
8 of part I of such Act, subject to the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations: Provided further, That
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated
under this heading, except that any funds
made available notwithstanding such section
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be made
available to support training and technical
assistance for foreign law enforcement, cor-
rections, judges, and other judicial authori-
ties, utilizing regional partners: Provided fur-
ther, That funds made available under this
heading that are transferred to another de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government pursuant to sec-
tion 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 valued in excess of $5,000,000, and any
agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of
such Act, shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
NONPROLIFERATION, ANTI-TERRORISM,
DEMINING AND RELATED PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses for nonprolifera-
tion, anti-terrorism, demining and related
programs and activities, $864,550,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, to
carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for
anti-terrorism assistance, chapter 9 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, sec-
tion 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, sec-
tion 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, or
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for
demining activities, the clearance of
unexploded ordnance, the destruction of
small arms, and related activities, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, includ-
ing activities implemented through non-
governmental and international organiza-
tions, and section 301 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 for a United States contribu-
tion to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban
Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a
voluntary contribution to the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA): Provided,
That funds made available under this head-
ing for the Nonproliferation and Disar-
mament Fund shall be made available, not-
withstanding any other provision of law and
subject to prior consultation with, and the
regular notification procedures of, the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, to promote bilat-
eral and multilateral activities relating to
nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons
destruction, and shall remain available until
expended: Provided further, That such funds
may also be used for such countries other
than the Independent States of the former
Soviet Union and international organiza-
tions when it is in the national security in-
terest of the United States to do so: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading may be made available for the IAEA
unless the Secretary of State determines
that Israel is being denied its right to par-
ticipate in the activities of that Agency: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
conventional weapons destruction programs,
including demining and related activities, in
addition to funds otherwise available for
such purposes, may be used for administra-
tive expenses related to the operation and
management of such programs and activi-
ties, subject to the regular notification pro-
cedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 551 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $163,457,000: Provided,
That funds appropriated under this heading
may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of
such Act, to provide assistance to enhance
the capacity of foreign civilian security
forces, including gendarmes, to participate
in peacekeeping operations: Provided further,
That of the funds appropriated under this
heading, not less than $31,000,000 shall be
made available for a United States contribu-
tion to the Multinational Force and Observ-
ers mission in the Sinai and not less than
$71,000,000 shall be made available for the
Global Peace Operations Initiative: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
under this heading shall be obligated except
as provided through the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S405
January 22, 2019
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 541 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $110,778,000, of which up
to $11,000,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That the civil-
ian personnel for whom military education
and training may be provided under this
heading may include civilians who are not
members of a government whose participa-
tion would contribute to improved civil-mili-
tary relations, civilian control of the mili-
tary, or respect for human rights: Provided
further, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not to exceed $50,000 may be
available for entertainment expenses.
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for grants to en-
able the President to carry out the provi-
sions of section 23 of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, $5,962,241,000: Provided, That to ex-
pedite the provision of assistance to foreign
countries and international organizations,
the Secretary of State, following consulta-
tion with the Committees on Appropriations
and subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of such Committees, may use the funds
appropriated under this heading to procure
defense articles and services to enhance the
capacity of foreign security forces: Provided
further, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not less than $3,300,000,000 shall
be available for grants only for Israel which
shall be disbursed within 30 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That to
the extent that the Government of Israel re-
quests that funds be used for such purposes,
grants made available for Israel under this
heading shall, as agreed by the United States
and Israel, be available for advanced weap-
ons systems, of which not less than
$815,300,000 shall be available for the procure-
ment in Israel of defense articles and defense
services, including research and develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under
this heading shall be nonrepayable notwith-
standing any requirement in section 23 of the
Arms Export Control Act: Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing shall be obligated upon apportionment in
accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of section
1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
None of the funds made available under
this heading shall be available to finance the
procurement of defense articles, defense
services, or design and construction services
that are not sold by the United States Gov-
ernment under the Arms Export Control Act
unless the foreign country proposing to
make such procurement has first signed an
agreement with the United States Govern-
ment specifying the conditions under which
such procurement may be financed with such
funds: Provided, That all country and funding
level increases in allocations shall be sub-
mitted through the regular notification pro-
cedures of section 7015 of this Act: Provided
further, That funds made available under this
heading may be used, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for demining, the
clearance of unexploded ordnance, and re-
lated activities, and may include activities
implemented through nongovernmental and
international organizations: Provided further,
That only those countries for which assist-
ance was justified for the ‘‘Foreign Military
Sales Financing Program’’ in the fiscal year
1989 congressional presentation for security
assistance programs may utilize funds made
available under this heading for procurement
of defense articles, defense services, or de-
sign and construction services that are not
sold by the United States Government under
the Arms Export Control Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended at the minimum
rate necessary to make timely payment for
defense articles and services: Provided fur-
ther, That not more than $75,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading may
be obligated for necessary expenses, includ-
ing the purchase of passenger motor vehicles
for replacement only for use outside of the
United States, for the general costs of ad-
ministering military assistance and sales,
except that this limitation may be exceeded
only through the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That of the funds made
available under this heading for general
costs of administering military assistance
and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be avail-
able for entertainment expenses and not to
exceed $130,000 may be available for represen-
tation expenses: Provided further, That not
more than $1,009,700,000 of funds realized pur-
suant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act may be obligated for ex-
penses incurred by the Department of De-
fense during fiscal year 2019 pursuant to sec-
tion 43(b) of the Arms Export Control Act,
except that this limitation may be exceeded
only through the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
TITLE V
MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 301 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $339,000,000: Provided,
That section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 shall not apply to contributions
to the United Nations Democracy Fund.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
For payment to the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development as trustee
for the Global Environment Facility by the
Secretary of the Treasury, $139,575,000, to re-
main available until, and to be fully dis-
bursed no later than, September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That of such amount, $136,563,000,
which shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, is only available for the first
installment of the seventh replenishment of
the Global Environment Facility, and shall
be obligated and disbursed not later than 90
days after enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall report to
the Committees on Appropriations on the
status of funds provided under this heading
not less than quarterly until fully disbursed:
Provided further, That in such report the Sec-
retary shall provide a timeline for the obli-
gation and disbursement of any funds that
have not yet been obligated or disbursed.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
For payment to the International Develop-
ment Association by the Secretary of the
Treasury, $1,097,010,000, to remain available
until expended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
FUND
For payment to the Asian Development
Bank’s Asian Development Fund by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, $47,395,000, to remain
available until expended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK
For payment to the African Development
Bank by the Secretary of the Treasury for
the United States share of the paid-in por-
tion of the increase in capital stock,
$32,417,159, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LIMITATION ON CALLABLE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIPTIONS
The United States Governor of the African
Development Bank may subscribe without
fiscal year limitation to the callable capital
portion of the United States share of such
capital stock in an amount not to exceed
$507,860,806.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
FUND
For payment to the African Development
Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury,
$171,300,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL FUND
FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
For payment to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development by the Secretary
of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to remain avail-
able until, and to be fully disbursed no later
than, September 30, 2020, for the first install-
ment of the eleventh replenishment of the
International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment: Provided, That the Secretary of the
Treasury shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations on the status of such pay-
ment not less than quarterly until fully dis-
bursed: Provided further, That in such report
the Secretary shall provide a timeline for
the obligation and disbursement of any funds
that have not yet been obligated or dis-
bursed.
TITLE VI
EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $5,700,000, of which up to $855,000
may remain available until September 30,
2020.
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
The Export-Import Bank of the United
States is authorized to make such expendi-
tures within the limits of funds and bor-
rowing authority available to such corpora-
tion, and in accordance with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 9104 of title 31, United
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying
out the program for the current fiscal year
for such corporation: Provided, That none of
the funds available during the current fiscal
year may be used to make expenditures, con-
tracts, or commitments for the export of nu-
clear equipment, fuel, or technology to any
country, other than a nuclear-weapon state
as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligi-
ble to receive economic or military assist-
ance under this Act, that has detonated a nu-
clear explosive after the date of enactment
of this Act.
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For administrative expenses to carry out
the direct and guaranteed loan and insurance
programs, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles and services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and
not to exceed $30,000 for official reception
and representation expenses for members of
the Board of Directors, not to exceed
$110,000,000, of which up to $16,500,000 may re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Export-Import Bank (the
Bank) may accept, and use, payment or serv-
ices provided by transaction participants for
legal, financial, or technical services in con-
nection with any transaction for which an
application for a loan, guarantee or insur-
ance commitment has been made: Provided
further, That the Bank shall charge fees for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S406 January 22, 2019
necessary expenses (including special serv-
ices performed on a contract or fee basis, but
not including other personal services) in con-
nection with the collection of moneys owed
the Bank, repossession or sale of pledged col-
lateral or other assets acquired by the Bank
in satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or
the investigation or appraisal of any prop-
erty, or the evaluation of the legal, finan-
cial, or technical aspects of any transaction
for which an application for a loan, guar-
antee or insurance commitment has been
made, or systems infrastructure directly
supporting transactions: Provided further,
That in addition to other funds appropriated
for administrative expenses, such fees shall
be credited to this account for such purposes,
to remain available until expended.
RECEIPTS COLLECTED
Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-
Import Bank Act of 1945 (Public Law 79–173)
and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, in
an amount not to exceed the amount appro-
priated herein, shall be credited as offsetting
collections to this account: Provided, That
the sums herein appropriated from the Gen-
eral Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-
dollar basis by such offsetting collections so
as to result in a final fiscal year appropria-
tion from the General Fund estimated at $0.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
NONCREDIT ACCOUNT
The Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion is authorized to make, without regard
to fiscal year limitations, as provided by sec-
tion 9104 of title 31, United States Code, such
expenditures and commitments within the
limits of funds available to it and in accord-
ance with law as may be necessary: Provided,
That the amount available for administra-
tive expenses to carry out the credit and in-
surance programs (including an amount for
official reception and representation ex-
penses which shall not exceed $35,000) shall
not exceed $79,200,000: Provided further, That
project-specific transaction costs, including
direct and indirect costs incurred in claims
settlements, and other direct costs associ-
ated with services provided to specific inves-
tors or potential investors pursuant to sec-
tion 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, shall not be considered administrative
expenses for the purposes of this heading:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading in this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs, up to $5,000,000 may be
made available for limited transition costs
associated with the implementation of sec-
tion 1463 of the Better Utilization of Invest-
ments Leading to Development (BUILD) Act
of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115–254):
Provided further, That prior to the initial ob-
ligation of funds made available for such
transition costs, the President of the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation shall
submit a spend plan to the Committees on
Appropriations for the use of such funds: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
such transition costs shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, and may not be
made available until the reorganization plan
required by section 1462(a) of the BUILD Act
of 2018 is transmitted to Congress.
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
as authorized by section 234 of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, $20,000,000, to be de-
rived by transfer from the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation Noncredit Account,
to remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That such costs, including the cost
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget
Act of 1974: Provided further, That funds so
obligated in fiscal year 2019 remain available
for disbursement through 2027; funds obli-
gated in fiscal year 2020 remain available for
disbursement through 2028; and funds obli-
gated in fiscal year 2021 remain available for
disbursement through 2029: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration is authorized to undertake any pro-
gram authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
in Iraq: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to the authority of the
previous proviso shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
In addition, such sums as may be necessary
for administrative expenses to carry out the
credit program may be derived from amounts
available for administrative expenses to
carry out the credit and insurance programs
in the Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion Noncredit Account and merged with
said account.
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 661 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $79,500,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
no more than $19,000,000 may be used for ad-
ministrative expenses: Provided, That of the
funds appropriated under this heading, not
more than $5,000 may be available for rep-
resentation and entertainment expenses.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ALLOWANCES AND DIFFERENTIALS
SEC. 7001. Funds appropriated under title I
of this Act shall be available, except as oth-
erwise provided, for allowances and differen-
tials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title
5, United States Code; for services as author-
ized by section 3109 of such title and for hire
of passenger transportation pursuant to sec-
tion 1343(b) of title 31, United States Code.
UNOBLIGATED BALANCES REPORT
SEC. 7002. Any department or agency of the
United States Government to which funds
are appropriated or otherwise made available
by this Act shall provide to the Committees
on Appropriations a quarterly accounting of
cumulative unobligated balances and obli-
gated, but unexpended, balances by program,
project, and activity, and Treasury Account
Fund Symbol of all funds received by such
department or agency in fiscal year 2019 or
any previous fiscal year, disaggregated by
fiscal year: Provided, That the report re-
quired by this section shall be submitted not
later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal
quarter and should specify by account the
amount of funds obligated pursuant to bilat-
eral agreements which have not been further
sub-obligated.
CONSULTING SERVICES
SEC. 7003. The expenditure of any appro-
priation under title I of this Act for any con-
sulting service through procurement con-
tract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES
SEC. 7004. (a) CAPITAL SECURITY COST SHAR-
ING INFORMATION.—The Secretary of State
shall promptly inform the Committees on
Appropriations of each instance in which a
Federal department or agency is delinquent
in providing the full amount of funding re-
quired by section 604(e) of the Secure Em-
bassy Construction and Counterterrorism
Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note).
(b) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (2) of section 604(e) of the Secure Em-
bassy Construction and Counterterrorism
Act of 1999 (title VI of division A of H.R. 3427,
as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of
Public Law 106–113 and contained in appendix
G of that Act), as amended by section 111 of
the Department of State Authorities Act,
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–323), a
project to construct a facility of the United
States may include office space or other ac-
commodations for members of the United
States Marine Corps.
(c) NEW DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES.—For the
purposes of calculating the fiscal year 2019
costs of providing new United States diplo-
matic facilities in accordance with section
604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction
and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C.
4865 note), the Secretary of State, in con-
sultation with the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, shall determine
the annual program level and agency shares
in a manner that is proportional to the con-
tribution of the Department of State for this
purpose.
(d) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, which may be made avail-
able for the acquisition of property or award
of construction contracts for overseas United
States diplomatic facilities during fiscal
year 2019, shall be subject to prior consulta-
tion with, and the regular notification proce-
dures of, the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided, That notifications pursuant to this
subsection shall include the information
enumerated under the heading ‘‘Embassy Se-
curity, Construction, and Maintenance’’ in
House Report 115–829.
(e) INTERIM AND TEMPORARY FACILITIES
ABROAD.—
(1) SECURITY VULNERABILITIES.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Embassy Security, Construction, and Main-
tenance’’ may be made available, following
consultation with the appropriate congres-
sional committees, to address security
vulnerabilities at interim and temporary
United States diplomatic facilities abroad,
including physical security upgrades and
local guard staffing, except that the amount
of funds made available for such purposes
from this Act and prior Acts making appro-
priations for the Department of State, for-
eign operations, and related programs shall
be a minimum of $25,000,000.
(2) CONSULTATION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the opening, closure,
or any significant modification to an interim
or temporary United States diplomatic facil-
ity shall be subject to prior consultation
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees and the regular notification procedures
of the Committees on Appropriations, except
that such consultation and notification may
be waived if there is a security risk to per-
sonnel.
(f) TRANSFER OF FUNDS AUTHORITY.—Funds
appropriated under the headings ‘‘Diplo-
matic Programs’’, including for Worldwide
Security Protection, ‘‘Emergencies in the
Diplomatic and Consular Service’’, and ‘‘Em-
bassy Security, Construction, and Mainte-
nance’’ in this Act may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated under
such headings if the Secretary of State de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that to do so is necessary to
implement the recommendations of the
Benghazi Accountability Review Board, for
emergency evacuations, or to prevent or re-
spond to security situations and require-
ments, following consultation with, and sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S407
January 22, 2019
of, such Committees: Provided, That such
transfer authority is in addition to any
transfer authority otherwise available in
this Act and under any other provision of
law.
(g) SOFT TARGETS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Embassy Secu-
rity, Construction, and Maintenance’’ may
be made available for security upgrades to
soft targets, including schools, recreational
facilities, and residences used by United
States diplomatic personnel and their de-
pendents, except that the amount made
available for such purposes shall be a min-
imum of $10,000,000.
(h) REPORT.—Within 45 days of enactment
of this Act and every 3 months thereafter
until the completion of each project, the
Secretary of State shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a report on the
Erbil Consulate, Beirut Embassy, Jakarta
Embassy, Mexico City Embassy, and New
Delhi Embassy, as described under this sec-
tion in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act).
(i) SECURE RESUPPLY AND MAINTENANCE.—
The Secretary of State may not grant final
approval for the construction of a new facil-
ity or substantial construction to improve or
expand an existing facility in the United
States by or for the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China until the Secretary
certifies and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that an agreement
has been concluded between the Govern-
ments of the United States and the People’s
Republic of China that permits secure resup-
ply, maintenance, and new construction of
United States Government facilities in the
People’s Republic of China.
PERSONNEL ACTIONS
SEC. 7005. Any costs incurred by a depart-
ment or agency funded under title I of this
Act resulting from personnel actions taken
in response to funding reductions included in
this Act shall be absorbed within the total
budgetary resources available under title I
to such department or agency: Provided,
That the authority to transfer funds between
appropriations accounts as may be necessary
to carry out this section is provided in addi-
tion to authorities included elsewhere in this
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to
carry out this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of
this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE MANAGEMENT
SEC. 7006. (a) FINANCIAL SYSTEMS IMPROVE-
MENT.—Funds appropriated by this Act for
the operations of the Department of State
under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ shall be
made available to implement the rec-
ommendations contained in the Foreign As-
sistance Data Review Findings Report
(FADR) and the Office of Inspector General
(OIG) report entitled ‘‘Department Financial
Systems Are Insufficient to Track and Re-
port on Foreign Assistance Funds’’: Provided,
That not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Appropriations an
update to the plan required under section
7006 of the Department of State, Foreign Op-
erations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31) for implementing the FADR and OIG rec-
ommendations: Provided further, That such
funds may not be obligated for enhance-
ments to, or expansions of, the Budget Sys-
tem Modernization Financial System, Cen-
tral Resource Management System, Joint Fi-
nancial Management System, or Foreign As-
sistance Coordination and Tracking System
until such updated plan is submitted to the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That such funds may not be obligated
for new, or expansion of existing, ad hoc
electronic systems to track commitments,
obligations, or expenditures of funds unless
the Secretary of State, following consulta-
tion with the Chief Information Officer of
the Department of State, has reviewed and
certified that such new system or expansion
is consistent with the FADR and OIG rec-
ommendations.
(b) WORKING CAPITAL FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act or otherwise made avail-
able to the Department of State for pay-
ments to the Working Capital Fund may
only be used for the service centers included
in the Congressional Budget Justification,
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2019: Pro-
vided, That the amounts for such service cen-
ters shall be the amounts included in such
budget justification, except as provided in
section 7015(b) of this Act: Provided further,
That Federal agency components shall be
charged only for their direct usage of each
Working Capital Fund service: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to increasing the percentage
charged to Department of State bureaus and
offices for procurement-related activities,
the Secretary of State shall include the pro-
posed increase in the Department of State
budget justification or, at least 60 days prior
to the increase, provide the Committees on
Appropriations a justification for such in-
crease, including a detailed assessment of
the cost and benefit of the services provided
by the procurement fee: Provided further,
That Federal agency components may only
pay for Working Capital Fund services that
are consistent with the purpose and authori-
ties of such components: Provided further,
That the Working Capital Fund shall be paid
in advance or reimbursed at rates which will
return the full cost of each service.
(c) CERTIFICATION.—
(1) Not later than 45 days after the initial
obligation of funds appropriated under titles
III and IV of this Act that are made avail-
able to a Department of State bureau or of-
fice with responsibility for the management
and oversight of such funds, the Secretary of
State shall certify and report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, on an individual
bureau or office basis, that such bureau or
office is in compliance with Department and
Federal financial and grants management
policies, procedures, and regulations, as ap-
plicable.
(2) When making a certification required
by paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall
consider the capacity of a bureau or office
to—
(A) account for the obligated funds at the
country and program level, as appropriate;
(B) identify risks and develop mitigation
and monitoring plans;
(C) establish performance measures and in-
dicators;
(D) review activities and performance; and
(E) assess final results and reconcile fi-
nances.
(3) If the Secretary of State is unable to
make a certification required by paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit a plan and
timeline detailing the steps to be taken to
bring such bureau or office into compliance.
(4) The report accompanying a certifi-
cation required by paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the requirements contained under this
section in House Report 115–829.
PROHIBITION AGAINST DIRECT FUNDING FOR
CERTAIN COUNTRIES
SEC. 7007. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to ti-
tles III through VI of this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to finance directly any as-
sistance or reparations for the governments
of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria: Pro-
vided, That for purposes of this section, the
prohibition on obligations or expenditures
shall include direct loans, credits, insurance,
and guarantees of the Export-Import Bank
or its agents.
COUPS D’ÉTAT
SEC. 7008. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to ti-
tles III through VI of this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to finance directly any as-
sistance to the government of any country
whose duly elected head of government is de-
posed by military coup d’état or decree or,
after the date of enactment of this Act, a
coup d’état or decree in which the military
plays a decisive role: Provided, That assist-
ance may be resumed to such government if
the Secretary of State certifies and reports
to the appropriate congressional committees
that subsequent to the termination of assist-
ance a democratically elected government
has taken office: Provided further, That the
provisions of this section shall not apply to
assistance to promote democratic elections
or public participation in democratic proc-
esses: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to the previous provisos
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS AUTHORITY
SEC. 7009. (a) DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.—
(1) DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—Not to exceed 5
percent of any appropriation made available
for the current fiscal year for the Depart-
ment of State under title I of this Act may
be transferred between, and merged with,
such appropriations, but no such appropria-
tion, except as otherwise specifically pro-
vided, shall be increased by more than 10 per-
cent by any such transfers, and no such
transfer may be made to increase the appro-
priation under the heading ‘‘Representation
Expenses’’.
(2) BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.—
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation
made available for the current fiscal year for
the Broadcasting Board of Governors under
title I of this Act may be transferred be-
tween, and merged with, such appropria-
tions, but no such appropriation, except as
otherwise specifically provided, shall be in-
creased by more than 10 percent by any such
transfers.
(3) TREATMENT AS REPROGRAMMING.—Any
transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
section 7015 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
(b) TITLE VI AGENCIES.—Not to exceed 5
percent of any appropriation, other than for
administrative expenses made available for
fiscal year 2019, for programs under title VI
of this Act may be transferred between such
appropriations for use for any of the pur-
poses, programs, and activities for which the
funds in such receiving account may be used,
but no such appropriation, except as other-
wise specifically provided, shall be increased
by more than 25 percent by any such trans-
fer: Provided, That the exercise of such au-
thority shall be subject to the regular notifi-
cation procedures of the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS OF FUNDS BE-
TWEEN AGENCIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—None of the funds made
available under titles II through V of this
Act may be transferred to any department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United
States Government, except pursuant to a
transfer made by, or transfer authority pro-
vided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S408 January 22, 2019
(2) ALLOCATION AND TRANSFERS.—Notwith-
standing paragraph (1), in addition to trans-
fers made by, or authorized elsewhere in,
this Act, funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the purposes of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 may be allocated or trans-
ferred to agencies of the United States Gov-
ernment pursuant to the provisions of sec-
tions 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961.
(3) NOTIFICATION.—Any agreement entered
into by the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development or the Department of
State with any department, agency, or in-
strumentality of the United States Govern-
ment pursuant to section 632(b) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess
of $1,000,000 and any agreement made pursu-
ant to section 632(a) of such Act, with funds
appropriated by this Act or prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams under the headings ‘‘Global Health
Programs’’, ‘‘Development Assistance’’,
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ shall
be subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided, That the requirement in the pre-
vious sentence shall not apply to agreements
entered into between USAID and the Depart-
ment of State.
(d) TRANSFER OF FUNDS BETWEEN AC-
COUNTS.—None of the funds made available
under titles II through V of this Act may be
obligated under an appropriations account to
which such funds were not appropriated, ex-
cept for transfers specifically provided for in
this Act, unless the President, not less than
5 days prior to the exercise of any authority
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 to transfer funds, consults with and pro-
vides a written policy justification to the
Committees on Appropriations.
(e) AUDIT OF INTER-AGENCY TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS.—Any agreement for the transfer or
allocation of funds appropriated by this Act
or prior Acts making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations and
related programs, entered into between the
Department of State or USAID and another
agency of the United States Government
under the authority of section 632(a) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law, shall expressly pro-
vide that the Inspector General (IG) for the
agency receiving the transfer or allocation
of such funds, or other entity with audit re-
sponsibility if the receiving agency does not
have an IG, shall perform periodic program
and financial audits of the use of such funds
and report to the Department of State or
USAID, as appropriate, upon completion of
such audits: Provided, That such audits shall
be transmitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations by the Department of State or
USAID, as appropriate: Provided further,
That funds transferred under such authority
may be made available for the cost of such
audits.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than October 31,
2019, the Secretary of State and the USAID
Administrator shall each submit a report to
the Committees on Appropriations detailing
all transfers to another agency of the United
States Government made pursuant to sec-
tions 632(a) and 632(b) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 with funds provided in the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2018 (division K of Public Law 115–141): Pro-
vided, That such reports shall include a list
of each transfer made pursuant to such sec-
tions with the respective funding level, ap-
propriation account, and the receiving agen-
cy.
PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONAL
EXPENSES
SEC. 7010. (a) FIRST-CLASS TRAVEL.—None
of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for first-class travel by employees of
United States Government departments and
agencies funded by this Act in contravention
of section 301–10.122 through 301–10.124 of
title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b) COMPUTER NETWORKS.—None of the
funds made available by this Act for the op-
erating expenses of any United States Gov-
ernment department or agency may be used
to establish or maintain a computer network
for use by such department or agency unless
such network has filters designed to block
access to sexually explicit websites: Pro-
vided, That nothing in this subsection shall
limit the use of funds necessary for any Fed-
eral, State, tribal, or local law enforcement
agency, or any other entity carrying out the
following activities: criminal investigations,
prosecutions, and adjudications; administra-
tive discipline; and the monitoring of such
websites undertaken as part of official busi-
ness.
(c) PROHIBITION ON PROMOTION OF TO-
BACCO.—None of the funds made available by
this Act should be available to promote the
sale or export of tobacco or tobacco prod-
ucts, or to seek the reduction or removal by
any foreign country of restrictions on the
marketing of tobacco or tobacco products,
except for restrictions which are not applied
equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of
the same type.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS
SEC. 7011. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall remain available
for obligation after the expiration of the cur-
rent fiscal year unless expressly so provided
by this Act: Provided, That funds appro-
priated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8
of part I, section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and
9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control
Act, and funds provided under the headings
‘‘Development Credit Authority’’ and ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’ shall remain available for an addi-
tional 4 years from the date on which the
availability of such funds would otherwise
have expired, if such funds are initially obli-
gated before the expiration of their respec-
tive periods of availability contained in this
Act: Provided further, That the availability of
funds pursuant to the previous proviso shall
not be applicable to such funds until the Sec-
retary of State submits the reports required
under section 7011 of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of
Public Law 115–31) and the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of
Public Law 115–141): Provided further, That
notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act, any funds made available for the pur-
poses of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
which are allocated or obligated for cash dis-
bursements in order to address balance of
payments or economic policy reform objec-
tives, shall remain available for an addi-
tional 4 years from the date on which the
availability of such funds would otherwise
have expired, if such funds are initially allo-
cated or obligated before the expiration of
their respective periods of availability con-
tained in this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of State shall provide a report to
the Committees on Appropriations not later
than October 31, 2019, detailing by account
and source year, the use of this authority
during the previous fiscal year.
LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES IN
DEFAULT
SEC. 7012. No part of any appropriation pro-
vided under titles III through VI in this Act
shall be used to furnish assistance to the
government of any country which is in de-
fault during a period in excess of 1 calendar
year in payment to the United States of
principal or interest on any loan made to the
government of such country by the United
States pursuant to a program for which
funds are appropriated under this Act unless
the President determines, following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions, that assistance for such country is in
the national interest of the United States.
PROHIBITION ON TAXATION OF UNITED STATES
ASSISTANCE
SEC. 7013. (a) PROHIBITION ON TAXATION.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be made
available to provide assistance for a foreign
country under a new bilateral agreement
governing the terms and conditions under
which such assistance is to be provided un-
less such agreement includes a provision
stating that assistance provided by the
United States shall be exempt from taxation,
or reimbursed, by the foreign government,
and the Secretary of State and the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development shall expeditiously
seek to negotiate amendments to existing bi-
lateral agreements, as necessary, to conform
with this requirement.
(b) NOTIFICATION AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
FOREIGN TAXES.—An amount equivalent to
200 percent of the total taxes assessed during
fiscal year 2019 on funds appropriated by this
Act and prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs by a foreign
government or entity against United States
assistance programs, either directly or
through grantees, contractors, and sub-
contractors, shall be withheld from obliga-
tion from funds appropriated for assistance
for fiscal year 2020 and for prior fiscal years
and allocated for the central government of
such country or for the West Bank and Gaza
program, as applicable, if, not later than
September 30, 2020, such taxes have not been
reimbursed: Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations by such date on the foreign gov-
ernments and entities that have not reim-
bursed such taxes, including any amount of
funds withheld pursuant to this subsection.
(c) DE MINIMIS EXCEPTION.—Foreign taxes
of a de minimis nature shall not be subject
to the provisions of subsection (b).
(d) REPROGRAMMING OF FUNDS.—Funds
withheld from obligation for each foreign
government or entity pursuant to subsection
(b) shall be reprogrammed for assistance for
countries which do not assess taxes on
United States assistance or which have an
effective arrangement that is providing sub-
stantial reimbursement of such taxes, and
that can reasonably accommodate such as-
sistance in a programmatically responsible
manner.
(e) DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of this sec-
tion shall not apply to any foreign govern-
ment or entity that assesses such taxes if the
Secretary of State reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that—
(A) such foreign government or entity has
an effective arrangement that is providing
substantial reimbursement of such taxes; or
(B) the foreign policy interests of the
United States outweigh the purpose of this
section to ensure that United States assist-
ance is not subject to taxation.
(2) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of State
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations at least 15 days prior to exercising
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S409
January 22, 2019
the authority of this subsection with regard
to any foreign government or entity.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of
State shall issue and update rules, regula-
tions, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to
implement the prohibition against the tax-
ation of assistance contained in this section.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) BILATERAL AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘bi-
lateral agreement’’ refers to a framework bi-
lateral agreement between the Government
of the United States and the government of
the country receiving assistance that de-
scribes the privileges and immunities appli-
cable to United States foreign assistance for
such country generally, or an individual
agreement between the Government of the
United States and such government that de-
scribes, among other things, the treatment
for tax purposes that will be accorded the
United States assistance provided under that
agreement.
(2) TAXES AND TAXATION.—The term ‘‘taxes
and taxation’’ shall include value added
taxes and customs duties but shall not in-
clude individual income taxes assessed to
local staff.
(h) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the heads of
other relevant agencies of the United States
Government, shall submit a report to the
Committees on Appropriations on the re-
quirements contained under this section in
House Report 115–829.
RESERVATIONS OF FUNDS
SEC. 7014. (a) REPROGRAMMING.—Funds ap-
propriated under titles III through VI of this
Act which are specifically designated may be
reprogrammed for other programs within the
same account notwithstanding the designa-
tion if compliance with the designation is
made impossible by operation of any provi-
sion of this or any other Act: Provided, That
any such reprogramming shall be subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That assistance that is reprogrammed
pursuant to this subsection shall be made
available under the same terms and condi-
tions as originally provided.
(b) EXTENSION OF AVAILABILITY.—In addi-
tion to the authority contained in subsection
(a), the original period of availability of
funds appropriated by this Act and adminis-
tered by the Department of State or the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment that are specifically designated
for particular programs or activities by this
or any other Act may be extended for an ad-
ditional fiscal year if the Secretary of State
or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate,
determines and reports promptly to the
Committees on Appropriations that the ter-
mination of assistance to a country or a sig-
nificant change in circumstances makes it
unlikely that such designated funds can be
obligated during the original period of avail-
ability: Provided, That such designated funds
that continue to be available for an addi-
tional fiscal year shall be obligated only for
the purpose of such designation.
(c) OTHER ACTS.—Ceilings and specifically
designated funding levels contained in this
Act shall not be applicable to funds or au-
thorities appropriated or otherwise made
available by any subsequent Act unless such
Act specifically so directs: Provided, That
specifically designated funding levels or min-
imum funding requirements contained in
any other Act shall not be applicable to
funds appropriated by this Act.
NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 7015. (a) NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES IN
PROGRAMS, PROJECTS, AND ACTIVITIES.—None
of the funds made available in titles I and II
of this Act or prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs to the de-
partments and agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation in fiscal
year 2019, or provided from any accounts in
the Treasury of the United States derived by
the collection of fees or of currency reflows
or other offsetting collections, or made
available by transfer, to the departments
and agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation to—
(1) create new programs;
(2) suspend or eliminate a program,
project, or activity;
(3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mis-
sion or post;
(4) create, close, reorganize, downsize, or
rename bureaus, centers, or offices; or
(5) contract out or privatize any functions
or activities presently performed by Federal
employees;
unless previously justified to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations or such Committees
are notified 15 days in advance of such obli-
gation.
(b) NOTIFICATION OF REPROGRAMMING OF
FUNDS.—None of the funds provided under ti-
tles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs, to
the departments and agencies funded under
titles I and II of this Act that remain avail-
able for obligation in fiscal year 2019, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury of
the United States derived by the collection
of fees available to the department and agen-
cy funded under title I of this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure for
activities, programs, or projects through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments or changes existing programs,
projects, or activities;
(2) relocates an existing office or employ-
ees;
(3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(4) results from any general savings, in-
cluding savings from a reduction in per-
sonnel, which would result in a change in ex-
isting programs, activities, or projects as ap-
proved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are
notified 15 days in advance of such re-
programming of funds.
(c) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—None of
the funds made available by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Global Health Programs’’,
‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘International
Organizations and Programs’’, ‘‘Trade and
Development Agency’’, ‘‘International Nar-
cotics Control and Law Enforcement’’, ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’,
‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, ‘‘Peacekeeping Operations’’, ‘‘Non-
proliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and
Related Programs’’, ‘‘Millennium Challenge
Corporation’’, ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’, ‘‘International Military Edu-
cation and Training’’, and ‘‘Peace Corps’’,
shall be available for obligation for activi-
ties, programs, projects, type of materiel as-
sistance, countries, or other operations not
justified or in excess of the amount justified
to the Committees on Appropriations for ob-
ligation under any of these specific headings
unless the Committees on Appropriations are
notified 15 days in advance of such obliga-
tion: Provided, That the President shall not
enter into any commitment of funds appro-
priated for the purposes of section 23 of the
Arms Export Control Act for the provision of
major defense equipment, other than conven-
tional ammunition, or other major defense
items defined to be aircraft, ships, missiles,
or combat vehicles, not previously justified
to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the
quantities justified to Congress unless the
Committees on Appropriations are notified
15 days in advance of such commitment: Pro-
vided further, That requirements of this sub-
section or any similar provision of this or
any other Act shall not apply to any re-
programming for an activity, program, or
project for which funds are appropriated
under titles III through VI of this Act of less
than 10 percent of the amount previously
justified to Congress for obligation for such
activity, program, or project for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That any notifi-
cation submitted pursuant to subsection (f)
of this section shall include information (if
known on the date of transmittal of such no-
tification) on the use of notwithstanding au-
thority: Provided further, That if subsequent
to the notification of assistance it becomes
necessary to rely on notwithstanding au-
thority, the Committees on Appropriations
should be informed at the earliest oppor-
tunity and to the extent practicable.
(d) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS
AND FUNDING NOTIFICATIONS.—
(1) PROGRAMS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
may be made available to support or con-
tinue any program initially funded under
any authority of title 10, United States Code,
or any Act making or authorizing appropria-
tions for the Department of Defense, unless
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense and in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations, submits
a justification to such Committees that in-
cludes a description of, and the estimated
costs associated with, the support or con-
tinuation of such program.
(2) FUNDING.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, funds transferred by the De-
partment of Defense to the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development for assistance for
foreign countries and international organiza-
tions shall be subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations.
(3) NOTIFICATION ON EXCESS DEFENSE ARTI-
CLES.—Prior to providing excess Department
of Defense articles in accordance with sec-
tion 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify
the Committees on Appropriations to the
same extent and under the same conditions
as other committees pursuant to subsection
(f) of that section: Provided, That before
issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense
articles under the Arms Export Control Act,
the Department of Defense shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
such Committees if such defense articles are
significant military equipment (as defined in
section 47(9) of the Arms Export Control Act)
or are valued (in terms of original acquisi-
tion cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if notifica-
tion is required elsewhere in this Act for the
use of appropriated funds for specific coun-
tries that would receive such excess defense
articles: Provided further, That such Commit-
tees shall also be informed of the original ac-
quisition cost of such defense articles.
(e) WAIVER.—The requirements of this sec-
tion or any similar provision of this Act or
any other Act, including any prior Act re-
quiring notification in accordance with the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, may be waived if
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk
to human health or welfare: Provided, That
in case of any such waiver, notification to
the Committees on Appropriations shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S410 January 22, 2019
provided as early as practicable, but in no
event later than 3 days after taking the ac-
tion to which such notification requirement
was applicable, in the context of the cir-
cumstances necessitating such waiver: Pro-
vided further, That any notification provided
pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
(f) COUNTRY NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be obligated
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan,
Bahrain, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, Colom-
bia, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Leb-
anon, Libya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Philippines, the Russian Federation, Soma-
lia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Yemen, and
Zimbabwe except as provided through the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(g) TRUST FUNDS.—Funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in title III of this
Act and prior Acts making funds available
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs that are made
available for a trust fund held by an inter-
national financial institution shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That such notification shall include the in-
formation specified under this section in the
explanatory statement accompanying the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2018 (division K of Public Law 115–141).
(h) OTHER PROGRAM NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENT.—
(1) DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated under title I of this Act under the
heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ that are
made available for a pilot program for lat-
eral entry into the Foreign Service shall be
subject to prior consultation with, and the
regular notification procedures of, the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(2) OTHER PROGRAMS.—Funds appropriated
by this Act that are made available for the
following programs and activities shall be
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations—
(A) The Global Engagement Center, except
that the Secretary of State shall consult
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees prior to submitting such notification;
(B) The Power Africa initiative, or any
successor program;
(C) Community-based police assistance
conducted pursuant to the authority of sec-
tion 7049(a)(1) of this Act;
(D) Programs to counter foreign fighters
and extremist organizations, pursuant to
section 7071(a) of this Act;
(E) The Relief and Recovery Fund;
(F) The Indo-Pacific Strategy;
(G) The Global Security Contingency
Fund;
(H) The Countering Russian Influence
Fund; and
(I) Programs to end modern slavery.
(i) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under titles III and IV
that are withheld from obligation or other-
wise not programmed as a result of applica-
tion of a provision of law in this or any other
Act shall, if reprogrammed, be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(j) REQUIREMENT TO INFORM, COORDINATE,
AND CONSULT.—
(1) The Secretary of State shall promptly
inform the appropriate congressional com-
mittees of each instance in which funds ap-
propriated by this Act for assistance for
Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, the Counterter-
rorism Partnership Fund, the Relief and Re-
covery Fund, or programs to counter extre-
mism and foreign fighters abroad, have been
diverted or destroyed, to include the type
and amount of assistance, a description of
the incident and parties involved, and an ex-
planation of the response of the Department
of State or USAID, as appropriate: Provided,
That the Secretary shall ensure such funds
are coordinated with, and complement, the
programs of other United States Government
departments and agencies and international
partners in such countries and on such ac-
tivities.
(2) The Secretary of State shall consult
with the Committees on Appropriations at
least seven days prior to informing a govern-
ment of, or publically announcing a decision
on, the suspension of assistance to a country
or a territory, including as a result of an
interagency review of such assistance, from
funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams.
DOCUMENT REQUESTS, RECORDS MANAGEMENT,
AND RELATED CYBERSECURITY PROTECTIONS
SEC. 7016. (a) REQUESTS FOR DOCUMENTS.—
None of the funds appropriated or made
available pursuant to titles III through VI of
this Act shall be available to a nongovern-
mental organization, including any con-
tractor, which fails to provide upon timely
request any document, file, or record nec-
essary to the auditing requirements of the
Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development.
(b) RECORDS MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
CYBERSECURITY PROTECTIONS.—
(1) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the headings ‘‘Dip-
lomatic Programs’’ and ‘‘Capital Investment
Fund’’ in title I, and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ in title II
that are made available to the Department
of State and USAID may be made available
to support the use or establishment of email
accounts or email servers created outside the
.gov domain or not fitted for automated
records management as part of a Federal
government records management program in
contravention of the Presidential and Fed-
eral Records Act Amendments of 2014 (Public
Law 113–187).
(2) DIRECTIVES.—The Secretary of State
and USAID Administrator shall—
(A) regularly review and update the poli-
cies, directives, and oversight necessary to
comply with Federal statutes, regulations,
and presidential executive orders and memo-
randa concerning the preservation of all
records made or received in the conduct of
official business, including record emails, in-
stant messaging, and other online tools;
(B) use funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ in title I,
and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ and ‘‘Capital In-
vestment Fund’’ in title II, as appropriate, to
improve Federal records management pursu-
ant to the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C.
Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and other applica-
ble Federal records management statutes,
regulations, or policies for the Department
of State and USAID;
(C) direct departing employees that all
Federal records generated by such employ-
ees, including senior officials, belong to the
Federal Government;
(D) improve the response time for identi-
fying and retrieving Federal records, includ-
ing requests made pursuant to section 552 of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information
Act’’); and
(E) strengthen cyber security measures to
mitigate vulnerabilities, including those re-
sulting from the use of personal email ac-
counts or servers outside the .gov domain,
improve the process to identify and remove
inactive user accounts, update and enforce
guidance related to the control of national
security information, and implement the
recommendations of the applicable reports of
the cognizant Office of Inspector General.
USE OF FUNDS IN CONTRAVENTION OF THIS ACT
SEC. 7017. If the President makes a deter-
mination not to comply with any provision
of this Act on constitutional grounds, the
head of the relevant Federal agency shall no-
tify the Committees on Appropriations in
writing within 5 days of such determination,
the basis for such determination and any re-
sulting changes to program and policy.
PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR ABORTIONS AND
INVOLUNTARY STERILIZATION
SEC. 7018. None of the funds made available
to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay
for the performance of abortions as a method
of family planning or to motivate or coerce
any person to practice abortions. None of the
funds made available to carry out part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended, may be used to pay for the per-
formance of involuntary sterilization as a
method of family planning or to coerce or
provide any financial incentive to any person
to undergo sterilizations. None of the funds
made available to carry out part I of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended,
may be used to pay for any biomedical re-
search which relates in whole or in part, to
methods of, or the performance of, abortions
or involuntary sterilization as a means of
family planning. None of the funds made
available to carry out part I of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be
obligated or expended for any country or or-
ganization if the President certifies that the
use of these funds by any such country or or-
ganization would violate any of the above
provisions related to abortions and involun-
tary sterilizations.
ALLOCATIONS AND REPORTS
SEC. 7019. (a) ALLOCATION TABLES.—Subject
to subsection (b), funds appropriated by this
Act under titles III through V shall be made
available in the amounts specifically des-
ignated in the respective tables included in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That such
designated amounts for foreign countries and
international organizations shall serve as
the amounts for such countries and inter-
national organizations transmitted to Con-
gress in the report required by section 653(a)
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(b) AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS.—Unless other-
wise provided for by this Act, the Secretary
of State and the Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, as applicable, may only deviate up to
10 percent from the amounts specifically des-
ignated in the respective tables included in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That such
percentage may be exceeded only if the Sec-
retary of State and USAID Administrator, as
applicable, determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations on a case-by-
case basis that such deviation is necessary to
respond to significant, exigent, or unforeseen
events or to address other exceptional cir-
cumstances directly related to the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided further, That deviations pursuant to
the previous proviso shall be subject to prior
consultation with, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of, the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) LIMITATION.—For specifically des-
ignated amounts that are included, pursuant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S411
January 22, 2019
to subsection (a), in the report required by
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961, no deviations authorized by sub-
section (b) may take place until submission
of such report.
(d) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply
to—
(A) amounts designated for ‘‘International
Military Education and Training’’ in the re-
spective tables included in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act);
(B) funds for which the initial period of
availability has expired;
(C) amounts designated by this Act as min-
imum funding requirements; and
(D) funds made available for a country pur-
suant to sections 7043(c), 7047(d), and 7071(b)
of this Act.
(2) The authority in subsection (b) to devi-
ate below amounts designated in the respec-
tive tables included in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act) shall not apply to the table included
under the heading ‘‘Global Health Pro-
grams’’ in such explanatory statement.
(3) With respect to the amounts designated
for ‘‘Global Programs’’ in the table under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ included
in the explanatory statement described in
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A
of this consolidated Act), subsection (b) shall
be applied by substituting ‘‘5 percent’’ for
‘‘10 percent’’.
(e) REPORTS.—The Secretary of State and
the USAID Administrator, as appropriate,
shall submit the reports required, in the
manner described, in House Report 115–829,
Senate Report 115–282, and the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), unless directed otherwise in such ex-
planatory statement.
REPRESENTATION AND ENTERTAINMENT
EXPENSES
SEC. 7020. (a) USES OF FUNDS.—Each Fed-
eral department, agency, or entity funded in
titles I or II of this Act, and the Department
of the Treasury and independent agencies
funded in titles III or VI of this Act, shall
take steps to ensure that domestic and over-
seas representation and entertainment ex-
penses further official agency business and
United States foreign policy interests, and—
(1) are primarily for fostering relations
outside of the Executive Branch;
(2) are principally for meals and events of
a protocol nature;
(3) are not for employee-only events; and
(4) do not include activities that are sub-
stantially of a recreational character.
(b) LIMITATIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act under the headings ‘‘International Mili-
tary Education and Training’’ or ‘‘Foreign
Military Financing Program’’ for Informa-
tional Program activities or under the head-
ings ‘‘Global Health Programs’’, ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’ may be obligated or ex-
pended to pay for—
(1) alcoholic beverages; or
(2) entertainment expenses for activities
that are substantially of a recreational char-
acter, including entrance fees at sporting
events, theatrical and musical productions,
and amusement parks.
PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENTS
SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM
SEC. 7021. (a) LETHAL MILITARY EQUIPMENT
EXPORTS.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—None of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under ti-
tles III through VI of this Act may be made
available to any foreign government which
provides lethal military equipment to a
country the government of which the Sec-
retary of State has determined supports
international terrorism for purposes of sec-
tion 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of
1979 as continued in effect pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act: Provided, That the prohibition under
this section with respect to a foreign govern-
ment shall terminate 12 months after that
government ceases to provide such military
equipment: Provided further, That this sec-
tion applies with respect to lethal military
equipment provided under a contract entered
into after October 1, 1997.
(2) DETERMINATION.—Assistance restricted
by paragraph (1) or any other similar provi-
sion of law, may be furnished if the Presi-
dent determines that to do so is important
to the national interest of the United States.
(3) REPORT.—Whenever the President
makes a determination pursuant to para-
graph (2), the President shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations a report with
respect to the furnishing of such assistance,
including a detailed explanation of the as-
sistance to be provided, the estimated dollar
amount of such assistance, and an expla-
nation of how the assistance furthers United
States national interest.
(b) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE.—
(1) LIMITATIONS.—Funds appropriated for
bilateral assistance in titles III through VI
of this Act and funds appropriated under any
such title in prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs, shall not
be made available to any foreign government
which the President determines—
(A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to
any individual or group which has com-
mitted an act of international terrorism;
(B) otherwise supports international ter-
rorism; or
(C) is controlled by an organization des-
ignated as a terrorist organization under sec-
tion 219 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
(2) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of paragraph (1) to a government
if the President determines that national se-
curity or humanitarian reasons justify such
waiver: Provided, That the President shall
publish each such waiver in the Federal Reg-
ister and, at least 15 days before the waiver
takes effect, shall notify the Committees on
Appropriations of the waiver (including the
justification for the waiver) in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 7022. Funds appropriated by this Act,
except funds appropriated under the heading
‘‘Trade and Development Agency’’, may be
obligated and expended notwithstanding sec-
tion 10 of Public Law 91–672 (22 U.S.C. 2412),
section 15 of the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section
313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C.
6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
DEFINITION OF PROGRAM, PROJECT, AND
ACTIVITY
SEC. 7023. For the purpose of titles II
through VI of this Act ‘‘program, project,
and activity’’ shall be defined at the appro-
priations Act account level and shall include
all appropriations and authorizations Acts
funding directives, ceilings, and limitations
with the exception that for the following ac-
counts: ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Assist-
ance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’,
and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’,
‘‘program, project, and activity’’ shall also
be considered to include country, regional,
and central program level funding within
each such account; and for the development
assistance accounts of the United States
Agency for International Development, ‘‘pro-
gram, project, and activity’’ shall also be
considered to include central, country, re-
gional, and program level funding, either
as—
(1) justified to Congress; or
(2) allocated by the Executive Branch in
accordance with a report, to be provided to
the Committees on Appropriations within 30
days after enactment of this Act, as required
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 or as modified pursuant to sec-
tion 7019 of this Act.
AUTHORITIES FOR THE PEACE CORPS, INTER-
AMERICAN FOUNDATION AND UNITED STATES
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
SEC. 7024. Unless expressly provided to the
contrary, provisions of this or any other Act,
including provisions contained in prior Acts
authorizing or making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs, shall not be construed to
prohibit activities authorized by or con-
ducted under the Peace Corps Act, the Inter-
American Foundation Act or the African De-
velopment Foundation Act: Provided, That
prior to conducting activities in a country
for which assistance is prohibited, the agen-
cy shall consult with the Committees on Ap-
propriations and report to such Committees
within 15 days of taking such action.
COMMERCE, TRADE AND SURPLUS COMMODITIES
SEC. 7025. (a) WORLD MARKETS.—None of
the funds appropriated or made available
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act
for direct assistance and none of the funds
otherwise made available to the Export-Im-
port Bank and the Overseas Private Invest-
ment Corporation shall be obligated or ex-
pended to finance any loan, any assistance,
or any other financial commitments for es-
tablishing or expanding production of any
commodity for export by any country other
than the United States, if the commodity is
likely to be in surplus on world markets at
the time the resulting productive capacity is
expected to become operative and if the as-
sistance will cause substantial injury to
United States producers of the same, similar,
or competing commodity: Provided, That
such prohibition shall not apply to the Ex-
port-Import Bank if in the judgment of its
Board of Directors the benefits to industry
and employment in the United States are
likely to outweigh the injury to United
States producers of the same, similar, or
competing commodity, and the Chairman of
the Board so notifies the Committees on Ap-
propriations: Provided further, That this sub-
section shall not prohibit—
(1) activities in a country that is eligible
for assistance from the International Devel-
opment Association, is not eligible for assist-
ance from the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and does not ex-
port on a consistent basis the agricultural
commodity with respect to which assistance
is furnished; or
(2) activities in a country the President de-
termines is recovering from widespread con-
flict, a humanitarian crisis, or a complex
emergency.
(b) EXPORTS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this or any other Act to carry out
chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 shall be available for any testing
or breeding feasibility study, variety im-
provement or introduction, consultancy,
publication, conference, or training in con-
nection with the growth or production in a
foreign country of an agricultural com-
modity for export which would compete with
a similar commodity grown or produced in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S412 January 22, 2019
the United States: Provided, That this sub-
section shall not prohibit—
(1) activities designed to increase food se-
curity in developing countries where such
activities will not have a significant impact
on the export of agricultural commodities of
the United States;
(2) research activities intended primarily
to benefit United States producers;
(3) activities in a country that is eligible
for assistance from the International Devel-
opment Association, is not eligible for assist-
ance from the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and does not ex-
port on a consistent basis the agricultural
commodity with respect to which assistance
is furnished; or
(4) activities in a country the President de-
termines is recovering from widespread con-
flict, a humanitarian crisis, or a complex
emergency.
(c) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall
instruct the United States executive direc-
tors of the international financial institu-
tions to use the voice and vote of the United
States to oppose any assistance by such in-
stitutions, using funds appropriated or made
available by this Act, for the production or
extraction of any commodity or mineral for
export, if it is in surplus on world markets
and if the assistance will cause substantial
injury to United States producers of the
same, similar, or competing commodity.
SEPARATE ACCOUNTS
SEC. 7026. (a) SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR
LOCAL CURRENCIES.—
(1) AGREEMENTS.—If assistance is furnished
to the government of a foreign country
under chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 under agreements which result in the
generation of local currencies of that coun-
try, the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development
shall—
(A) require that local currencies be depos-
ited in a separate account established by
that government;
(B) enter into an agreement with that gov-
ernment which sets forth—
(i) the amount of the local currencies to be
generated; and
(ii) the terms and conditions under which
the currencies so deposited may be utilized,
consistent with this section; and
(C) establish by agreement with that gov-
ernment the responsibilities of USAID and
that government to monitor and account for
deposits into and disbursements from the
separate account.
(2) USES OF LOCAL CURRENCIES.—As may be
agreed upon with the foreign government,
local currencies deposited in a separate ac-
count pursuant to subsection (a), or an
equivalent amount of local currencies, shall
be used only—
(A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (as the case may be), for such pur-
poses as—
(i) project and sector assistance activities;
or
(ii) debt and deficit financing; or
(B) for the administrative requirements of
the United States Government.
(3) PROGRAMMING ACCOUNTABILITY.—USAID
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that
the equivalent of the local currencies dis-
bursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from
the separate account established pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) are used for the purposes
agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
(4) TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAMS.—Upon termination of assistance to a
country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (as the case may be), any
unencumbered balances of funds which re-
main in a separate account established pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall be disposed of
for such purposes as may be agreed to by the
government of that country and the United
States Government.
(5) REPORT.—The USAID Administrator
shall report as part of the congressional
budget justification submitted to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the use of local
currencies for the administrative require-
ments of the United States Government as
authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and such
report shall include the amount of local cur-
rency (and United States dollar equivalent)
used or to be used for such purpose in each
applicable country.
(b) SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR CASH TRANS-
FERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If assistance is made
available to the government of a foreign
country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as
nonproject sector assistance, that country
shall be required to maintain such funds in a
separate account and not commingle with
any other funds.
(2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF
LAW.—Such funds may be obligated and ex-
pended notwithstanding provisions of law
which are inconsistent with the nature of
this assistance including provisions which
are referenced in the Joint Explanatory
Statement of the Committee of Conference
accompanying House Joint Resolution 648
(House Report No. 98–1159).
(3) NOTIFICATION.—At least 15 days prior to
obligating any such cash transfer or non-
project sector assistance, the President shall
submit a notification through the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations, which shall include a de-
tailed description of how the funds proposed
to be made available will be used, with a dis-
cussion of the United States interests that
will be served by such assistance (including,
as appropriate, a description of the economic
policy reforms that will be promoted by such
assistance).
(4) EXEMPTION.—Nonproject sector assist-
ance funds may be exempt from the require-
ments of paragraph (1) only through the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE
SEC. 7027. (a) ASSISTANCE THROUGH NON-
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS.—Restric-
tions contained in this or any other Act with
respect to assistance for a country shall not
be construed to restrict assistance in support
of programs of nongovernmental organiza-
tions from funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 11,
and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and from
funds appropriated under the heading ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’: Provided, That before using the au-
thority of this subsection to furnish assist-
ance in support of programs of nongovern-
mental organizations, the President shall no-
tify the Committees on Appropriations pur-
suant to the regular notification procedures,
including a description of the program to be
assisted, the assistance to be provided, and
the reasons for furnishing such assistance:
Provided further, That nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed to alter any exist-
ing statutory prohibitions against abortion
or involuntary sterilizations contained in
this or any other Act.
(b) PUBLIC LAW 480.—During fiscal year
2019, restrictions contained in this or any
other Act with respect to assistance for a
country shall not be construed to restrict as-
sistance under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.): Provided,
That none of the funds appropriated to carry
out title I of such Act and made available
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated
or expended except as provided through the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply—
(1) with respect to section 620A of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law prohibiting assist-
ance to countries that support international
terrorism; or
(2) with respect to section 116 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law prohibiting assist-
ance to the government of a country that
violates internationally recognized human
rights.
LOCAL COMPETITION
SEC. 7028. (a) REQUIREMENTS FOR EXCEP-
TIONS TO COMPETITION FOR LOCAL ENTITIES.—
Funds appropriated by this Act that are
made available to the United States Agency
for International Development may only be
made available for limited competitions
through local entities if—
(1) prior to the determination to limit
competition to local entities, USAID has—
(A) assessed the level of local capacity to
effectively implement, manage, and account
for programs included in such competition;
and
(B) documented the written results of the
assessment and decisions made; and
(2) prior to making an award after limiting
competition to local entities—
(A) each successful local entity has been
determined to be responsible in accordance
with USAID guidelines; and
(B) effective monitoring and evaluation
systems are in place to ensure that award
funding is used for its intended purposes; and
(3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
(b) REPORT.—In addition to the require-
ments of subsection (a)(1), the USAID Ad-
ministrator shall report to the appropriate
congressional committees not later than 45
days after the end of fiscal year 2019 on all
awards subject to limited or no competition
for local entities: Provided, That such report
shall be posted on the USAID website: Pro-
vided further, That the requirements of this
subsection shall only apply to awards in ex-
cess of $3,000,000 and sole source awards to
local entities in excess of $2,000,000.
(c) EXTENSION OF PROCUREMENT AUTHOR-
ITY.—Section 7077 of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of
Public Law 112–74) shall continue in effect
during fiscal year 2019.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SEC. 7029. (a) EVALUATIONS AND REPORT.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that such institution adopts and im-
plements a publicly available policy, includ-
ing the strategic use of peer reviews and ex-
ternal experts, to conduct independent, in-
depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at
least 25 percent of all loans, grants, pro-
grams, and significant analytical non-lend-
ing activities in advancing the institution’s
goals of reducing poverty and promoting eq-
uitable economic growth, consistent with
relevant safeguards, to ensure that decisions
to support such loans, grants, programs, and
activities are based on accurate data and ob-
jective analysis: Provided, That not later
than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on steps taken in
fiscal year 2018 by the United States execu-
tive directors and the international financial
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S413
January 22, 2019
institutions consistent with this subsection
compared to the previous fiscal year.
(b) SAFEGUARDS.—
(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States Executive Director
of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the International De-
velopment Association to vote against any
loan, grant, policy, or strategy if such insti-
tution has adopted and is implementing any
social or environmental safeguard relevant
to such loan, grant, policy, or strategy that
provides less protection than World Bank
safeguards in effect on September 30, 2015.
(2) The Secretary of the Treasury should
instruct the United States executive director
of each international financial institution to
vote against loans or other financing for
projects unless such projects—
(A) provide for accountability and trans-
parency, including the collection,
verification and publication of beneficial
ownership information related to extractive
industries and on-site monitoring during the
life of the project;
(B) will be developed and carried out in ac-
cordance with best practices regarding envi-
ronmental conservation; cultural protection;
and empowerment of local populations, in-
cluding free, prior and informed consent of
affected indigenous communities;
(C) do not provide incentives for, or facili-
tate, forced displacement; and
(D) do not partner with or otherwise in-
volve enterprises owned or controlled by the
armed forces.
(c) COMPENSATION.—None of the funds ap-
propriated under title V of this Act may be
made as payment to any international finan-
cial institution while the United States exec-
utive director to such institution is com-
pensated by the institution at a rate which,
together with whatever compensation such
executive director receives from the United
States, is in excess of the rate provided for
an individual occupying a position at level
IV of the Executive Schedule under section
5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while
any alternate United States executive direc-
tor to such institution is compensated by the
institution at a rate in excess of the rate
provided for an individual occupying a posi-
tion at level V of the Executive Schedule
under section 5316 of title 5, United States
Code.
(d) HUMAN RIGHTS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each international finan-
cial institution to promote human rights due
diligence and risk management, as appro-
priate, in connection with any loan, grant,
policy, or strategy of such institution in ac-
cordance with the criteria specified under
this subsection in Senate Report 115–282: Pro-
vided, That prior to voting on any such loan,
grant, policy, or strategy the executive di-
rector shall consult with the Assistant Sec-
retary for Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Department of State, if the executive
director has reason to believe that such loan,
grant, policy, or strategy could result in
forced displacement or other violation of
human rights.
(e) FRAUD AND CORRUPTION.—The Secretary
of the Treasury shall instruct the United
States executive director of each inter-
national financial institution to promote in
loan, grant, and other financing agreements
improvements in borrowing countries’ finan-
cial management and judicial capacity to in-
vestigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and
corruption.
(f) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INFORMATION.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that such institution collects,
verifies, and publishes, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable, beneficial ownership infor-
mation (excluding proprietary information)
for any corporation or limited liability com-
pany, other than a publicly listed company,
that receives funds from any such financial
institution: Provided, That not later than 45
days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations on steps taken in fis-
cal year 2018 by the United States executive
directors and the international financial in-
stitutions consistent with this subsection
compared to the previous fiscal year.
(g) WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.—The
Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that each such institution is effec-
tively implementing and enforcing policies
and procedures which reflect best practices
for the protection of whistleblowers from re-
taliation, including best practices for—
(1) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosure;
(2) legal burdens of proof;
(3) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(4) access to independent adjudicative bod-
ies, including external arbitration; and
(5) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation.
DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 7030. In order to enhance the contin-
ued participation of nongovernmental orga-
nizations in debt-for-development and debt-
for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental or-
ganization which is a grantee or contractor
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development may place in interest
bearing accounts local currencies which ac-
crue to that organization as a result of eco-
nomic assistance provided under title III of
this Act and, subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations, any interest earned on such in-
vestment shall be used for the purpose for
which the assistance was provided to that or-
ganization.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
TRANSPARENCY
SEC. 7031. (a) LIMITATION ON DIRECT GOV-
ERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act may be made available for direct
government-to-government assistance only
if—
(A)(i) each implementing agency or min-
istry to receive assistance has been assessed
and is considered to have the systems re-
quired to manage such assistance and any
identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses of
such agency or ministry have been ad-
dressed;
(ii) the recipient agency or ministry em-
ploys and utilizes staff with the necessary
technical, financial, and management capa-
bilities;
(iii) the recipient agency or ministry has
adopted competitive procurement policies
and systems;
(iv) effective monitoring and evaluation
systems are in place to ensure that such as-
sistance is used for its intended purposes;
(v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed;
and
(vi) the government of the recipient coun-
try is taking steps to publicly disclose on an
annual basis its national budget, to include
income and expenditures;
(B) the recipient government is in compli-
ance with the principles set forth in section
7013 of this Act;
(C) the recipient agency or ministry is not
headed or controlled by an organization des-
ignated as a foreign terrorist organization
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
(D) the Government of the United States
and the government of the recipient country
have agreed, in writing, on clear and achiev-
able objectives for the use of such assistance,
which should be made available on a cost-re-
imbursable basis; and
(E) the recipient government is taking
steps to protect the rights of civil society,
including freedoms of expression, associa-
tion, and assembly.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—In ad-
dition to the requirements in paragraph (1),
no funds may be made available for direct
government-to-government assistance with-
out prior consultation with, and notification
of, the Committees on Appropriations: Pro-
vided, That such notification shall contain
an explanation of how the proposed activity
meets the requirements of paragraph (1): Pro-
vided further, That the requirements of this
paragraph shall only apply to direct govern-
ment-to-government assistance in excess of
$10,000,000 and all funds available for cash
transfer, budget support, and cash payments
to individuals.
(3) SUSPENSION OF ASSISTANCE.—The Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development or the Secretary
of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any
direct government-to-government assistance
if the Administrator or the Secretary has
credible information of material misuse of
such assistance, unless the Administrator or
the Secretary reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that it is in the national in-
terest of the United States to continue such
assistance, including a justification, or that
such misuse has been appropriately ad-
dressed.
(4) SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary of State shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations, concurrent with the
fiscal year 2020 congressional budget jus-
tification materials, amounts planned for as-
sistance described in paragraph (1) by coun-
try, proposed funding amount, source of
funds, and type of assistance.
(5) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act and every 6 months
thereafter until September 30, 2020, the
USAID Administrator shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations a report
that—
(A) details all assistance described in para-
graph (1) provided during the previous 6-
month period by country, funding amount,
source of funds, and type of such assistance;
and
(B) the type of procurement instrument or
mechanism utilized and whether the assist-
ance was provided on a reimbursable basis.
(6) DEBT SERVICE PAYMENT PROHIBITION.—
None of the funds made available by this Act
may be used by the government of any for-
eign country for debt service payments owed
by any country to any international finan-
cial institution.
(b) NATIONAL BUDGET AND CONTRACT
TRANSPARENCY.—
(1) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF FISCAL
TRANSPARENCY.—The Secretary of State
shall continue to update and strengthen the
‘‘minimum requirements of fiscal trans-
parency’’ for each government receiving as-
sistance appropriated by this Act, as identi-
fied in the report required by section 7031(b)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113–
76).
(2) DEFINITION.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), ‘‘minimum requirements of fiscal trans-
parency’’ are requirements consistent with
those in subsection (a)(1), and the public dis-
closure of national budget documentation (to
include receipts and expenditures by min-
istry) and government contracts and licenses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S414 January 22, 2019
for natural resource extraction (to include
bidding and concession allocation practices).
(3) DETERMINATION AND REPORT.—For each
government identified pursuant to paragraph
(1), the Secretary of State, not later than 180
days after enactment of this Act, shall make
or update any determination of ‘‘significant
progress’’ or ‘‘no significant progress’’ in
meeting the minimum requirements of fiscal
transparency, and make such determinations
publicly available in an annual ‘‘Fiscal
Transparency Report’’ to be posted on the
Department of State website: Provided, That
the Secretary shall identify the significant
progress made by each such government to
publicly disclose national budget docu-
mentation, contracts, and licenses which are
additional to such information disclosed in
previous fiscal years, and include specific
recommendations of short- and long-term
steps such government should take to im-
prove fiscal transparency: Provided further,
That the annual report shall include a de-
tailed description of how funds appropriated
by this Act are being used to improve fiscal
transparency, and identify benchmarks for
measuring progress.
(4) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
title III of this Act shall be made available
for programs and activities to assist govern-
ments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to
improve budget transparency and to support
civil society organizations in such countries
that promote budget transparency: Provided,
That such sums shall be in addition to funds
otherwise available for such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That a description of the uses
of such funds shall be included in the annual
‘‘Fiscal Transparency Report’’ required by
paragraph (3).
(c) ANTI-KLEPTOCRACY AND HUMAN
RIGHTS.—
(1) INELIGIBILITY.—
(A) Officials of foreign governments and
their immediate family members about
whom the Secretary of State has credible in-
formation have been involved in significant
corruption, including corruption related to
the extraction of natural resources, or a
gross violation of human rights shall be in-
eligible for entry into the United States.
(B) The Secretary shall also publicly or
privately designate or identify officials of
foreign governments and their immediate
family members about whom the Secretary
has such credible information without regard
to whether the individual has applied for a
visa.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Individuals shall not be in-
eligible if entry into the United States would
further important United States law enforce-
ment objectives or is necessary to permit the
United States to fulfill its obligations under
the United Nations Headquarters Agreement:
Provided, That nothing in paragraph (1) shall
be construed to derogate from United States
Government obligations under applicable
international agreements.
(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive the
application of paragraph (1) if the Secretary
determines that the waiver would serve a
compelling national interest or that the cir-
cumstances which caused the individual to
be ineligible have changed sufficiently.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report, including a clas-
sified annex if necessary, to the Committees
on Appropriations and the Committees on
the Judiciary describing the information re-
lated to corruption or violation of human
rights concerning each of the individuals
found ineligible in the previous 12 months
pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) as well as the
individuals who the Secretary designated or
identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or
who would be ineligible but for the applica-
tion of paragraph (2), a list of any waivers
provided under paragraph (3), and the jus-
tification for each waiver.
(5) POSTING OF REPORT.—Any unclassified
portion of the report required under para-
graph (4) shall be posted on the Department
of State website.
(6) CLARIFICATION.—For purposes of para-
graphs (1)(B), (4), and (5), the records of the
Department of State and of diplomatic and
consular offices of the United States per-
taining to the issuance or refusal of visas or
permits to enter the United States shall not
be considered confidential.
(d) EXTRACTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated by
this Act shall be made available to promote
and support transparency and accountability
of expenditures and revenues related to the
extraction of natural resources, including by
strengthening implementation and moni-
toring of the Extractive Industries Trans-
parency Initiative, implementing and enforc-
ing section 8204 of the Food, Conservation,
and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–246;
122 Stat. 2052) and the amendments made by
such section, and to prevent the sale of con-
flict diamonds, and provide technical assist-
ance to promote independent audit mecha-
nisms and support civil society participation
in natural resource management.
(2) UNITED STATES POLICY.—
(A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
form the management of the international
financial institutions, and post on the De-
partment of the Treasury website, that it is
the policy of the United States to vote
against any assistance by such institutions
(including any loan, credit, grant, or guar-
antee) to any country for the extraction and
export of a natural resource if the govern-
ment of such country has in place laws, regu-
lations, or procedures to prevent or limit the
public disclosure of company payments as
required by United States law, and unless
such government has adopted laws, regula-
tions, or procedures in the sector in which
assistance is being considered for—
(i) accurately accounting for and public
disclosure of payments to the host govern-
ment by companies involved in the extrac-
tion and export of natural resources;
(ii) the independent auditing of accounts
receiving such payments and public disclo-
sure of the findings of such audits; and
(iii) public disclosure of such documents as
Host Government Agreements, Concession
Agreements, and bidding documents, allow-
ing in any such dissemination or disclosure
for the redaction of, or exceptions for, infor-
mation that is commercially proprietary or
that would create competitive disadvantage.
(B) The requirements of subparagraph (A)
shall not apply to assistance for the purpose
of building the capacity of such government
to meet the requirements of this subpara-
graph.
(e) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE WEBSITE.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under titles I and
II, and funds made available for any inde-
pendent agency in title III, as appropriate,
shall be made available to support the provi-
sion of additional information on United
States Government foreign assistance on the
Department of State foreign assistance
website: Provided, That all Federal agencies
funded under this Act shall provide such in-
formation on foreign assistance, upon re-
quest, to the Department of State.
DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS
SEC. 7032. (a) FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, and
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’, not less than $2,400,000,000
shall be made available for democracy pro-
grams.
(2) PROGRAMS.—Of the funds made avail-
able for democracy programs under the head-
ings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Assist-
ance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’
pursuant to paragraph (1), not less than
$89,540,000 shall be made available to the Bu-
reau of Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Department of State, at not less than
the amounts specified for certain countries
and regional programs designated in the
table under this section in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act).
(b) AUTHORITIES.—
(1) Funds made available by this Act for
democracy programs pursuant to subsection
(a) and under the heading ‘‘National Endow-
ment for Democracy’’ may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
and with regard to the National Endowment
for Democracy (NED), any regulation.
(2) Funds made available by this Act for
the NED are made available pursuant to the
authority of the National Endowment for
Democracy Act (title V of Public Law 98–
164), including all decisions regarding the se-
lection of beneficiaries.
(c) DEFINITION OF DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS.—
For purposes of funds appropriated by this
Act, the term ‘‘democracy programs’’ means
programs that support good governance,
credible and competitive elections, freedom
of expression, association, assembly, and re-
ligion, human rights, labor rights, inde-
pendent media, and the rule of law, and that
otherwise strengthen the capacity of demo-
cratic political parties, governments, non-
governmental organizations and institu-
tions, and citizens to support the develop-
ment of democratic states and institutions
that are responsive and accountable to citi-
zens.
(d) PROGRAM PRIORITIZATION.—Funds made
available pursuant to this section that are
made available for programs to strengthen
government institutions shall be prioritized
for those institutions that demonstrate a
commitment to democracy and the rule of
law, as determined by the Secretary of State
or the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, as
appropriate.
(e) RESTRICTION ON PRIOR APPROVAL.—With
respect to the provision of assistance for de-
mocracy programs in this Act, the organiza-
tions implementing such assistance, the spe-
cific nature of that assistance, and the par-
ticipants in such programs shall not be sub-
ject to the prior approval by the government
of any foreign country: Provided, That the
Secretary of State, in coordination with the
USAID Administrator, shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations, not later
than 120 days after enactment of this Act,
detailing steps taken by the Department of
State and USAID to comply with the re-
quirements of this subsection.
(f) CONTINUATION OF CURRENT PRACTICES.—
USAID shall continue to implement civil so-
ciety and political competition and con-
sensus building programs abroad with funds
appropriated by this Act in a manner that
recognizes the unique benefits of grants and
cooperative agreements in implementing
such programs: Provided, That nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to affect
the ability of any entity, including United
States small businesses, from competing for
proposals for USAID-funded civil society and
political competition and consensus building
programs.
(g) INFORMING THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT
FOR DEMOCRACY.—The Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S415
January 22, 2019
Department of State, and the Assistant Ad-
ministrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Hu-
manitarian Assistance, USAID, shall regu-
larly inform the National Endowment for
Democracy of democracy programs that are
planned and supported by funds made avail-
able by this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs.
(h) PROTECTION OF CIVIL SOCIETY ACTIVISTS
AND JOURNALISTS.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, not
less than $15,000,000 shall be made available
to support and protect civil society activists
and journalists who have been threatened,
harassed, or attacked, consistent with the
action plan submitted pursuant to, and on
the same terms and conditions of, section
7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law
115–141).
INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
SEC. 7033. (a) INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM OFFICE AND SPECIAL ENVOY TO PRO-
MOTE RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.—
(1) OPERATIONS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’ shall be made available for the Office
of International Religious Freedom, Bureau
of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State, and the Special Envoy
to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious
Minorities in the Near East and South Cen-
tral Asia, as authorized in the Near East and
South Central Asia Religious Freedom Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–161), including for sup-
port staff at not less than the amounts speci-
fied for such offices in the table under such
heading in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act).
(2) CURRICULUM.—Funds appropriated
under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and designated for the Office of Inter-
national Religious Freedom shall be made
available for the development and implemen-
tation of an international religious freedom
curriculum in accordance with section
708(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22
U.S.C. 4028(a)(2)).
(b) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM PRO-
GRAMS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Democracy Fund’’
and available for the Human Rights and De-
mocracy Fund, not less than $10,000,000 shall
be made available for international religious
freedom programs: Provided, That the Am-
bassador-at-Large for International Reli-
gious Freedom shall consult with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the uses of
such funds.
(2) PROTECTION AND INVESTIGATION PRO-
GRAMS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made
available for programs to protect vulnerable
and persecuted religious minorities: Pro-
vided, That a portion of such funds shall be
made available for programs to investigate
the persecution of such minorities by gov-
ernments and non-state actors and for the
public dissemination of information col-
lected on such persecution, including on the
Department of State website.
(3) HUMANITARIAN PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’ and
‘‘Migration and Refugee Assistance’’ shall be
made available for humanitarian assistance
for vulnerable and persecuted religious mi-
norities, including victims of genocide des-
ignated by the Secretary of State and other
groups that have suffered crimes against hu-
manity and ethnic cleansing, to—
(A) facilitate the implementation of an im-
mediate, coordinated, and sustained response
to provide humanitarian assistance;
(B) enhance protection of conflict victims,
including those facing a dire humanitarian
crisis and severe persecution because of their
faith or ethnicity;
(C) improve access to secure locations for
obtaining humanitarian and resettlement
services; and
(D) build resilience and help reestablish
livelihoods for displaced and persecuted per-
sons in their communities of origin.
(4) TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE, RECONCILIATION,
AND REINTEGRATION PROGRAMS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act that are made
available for the Relief and Recovery Fund,
not less than $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to support transitional justice, rec-
onciliation, and reintegration programs for
vulnerable and persecuted religious minori-
ties, including in the Middle East and North
Africa regions: Provided, That such funds
shall be matched, to the maximum extent
practicable, from sources other than the
United States Government.
(5) RESPONSIBILITY FOR FUNDS.—Funds
made available by paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall be the responsibility of the Ambas-
sador-at-Large for International Religious
Freedom, in consultation with other rel-
evant United States Government officials.
(c) INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Broadcasting Board of Governors, Inter-
national Broadcasting Operations’’ shall be
made available for programs related to inter-
national religious freedom, including report-
ing on the condition of vulnerable and per-
secuted religious groups.
(d) FUNDING CLARIFICATION.—
(1) Funds made available pursuant to sub-
section (b) are in addition to amounts other-
wise made available for such purposes.
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
for assistance for ethnic and religious mi-
norities in Iraq and Syria.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 7034. (a) VICTIMS OF WAR, DISPLACED
CHILDREN, AND DISPLACED BURMESE.—Funds
appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act
that are made available for victims of war,
displaced children, displaced Burmese, and
to combat trafficking in persons and assist
victims of such trafficking, may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law.
(b) FORENSIC ASSISTANCE.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made
available for forensic anthropology assist-
ance related to the exhumation and identi-
fication of victims of war crimes, crimes
against humanity, and genocide, which shall
be administered by the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State: Provided, That such
funds shall be in addition to funds made
available by this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs for
assistance for countries.
(2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement’’, not less
than $8,000,000 shall be made available for
DNA forensic technology programs to com-
bat human trafficking in Central America
and Mexico.
(c) ATROCITIES PREVENTION.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made
available for programs to prevent atrocities,
including to implement recommendations of
the Atrocities Prevention Board, or any suc-
cessor entity: Provided, That the Under Sec-
retary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and
Human Rights, Department of State, shall be
responsible for providing the strategic policy
direction for, and policy oversight of, funds
made available pursuant to this subsection
to the Bureaus of International Narcotics
and Law Enforcement Affairs and Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department
of State: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to this subsection are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes: Provided further, That
such funds shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(d) WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME.—Funds man-
aged by the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict,
and Humanitarian Assistance, United States
Agency for International Development, from
this or any other Act, may be made available
as a general contribution to the World Food
Programme, notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law.
(e) DIRECTIVES AND AUTHORITIES.—
(1) RESEARCH AND TRAINING.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’ shall be made available to carry out
the Program for Research and Training on
Eastern Europe and the Independent States
of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by
the Soviet-Eastern European Research and
Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.).
(2) GENOCIDE VICTIMS MEMORIAL SITES.—
Funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs under the headings ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ may be
made available as contributions to establish
and maintain memorial sites of genocide,
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.—Of the
amounts made available by title I of this Act
under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’,
up to $500,000 may be made available for
grants pursuant to section 504 of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year
1979 (22 U.S.C. 2656d), including to facilitate
collaboration with indigenous communities,
and up to $1,000,000 may be made available
for grants to carry out the activities of the
Cultural Antiquities Task Force.
(4) INNOVATION.—The USAID Administrator
may use funds appropriated by this Act
under title III to make innovation incentive
awards: Provided, That each individual award
may not exceed $100,000: Provided further,
That no more than 10 such awards may be
made during fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That for purposes of this paragraph the term
‘‘innovation incentive award’’ means the
provision of funding on a competitive basis
that—
(A) encourages and rewards the develop-
ment of solutions for a particular, well-de-
fined problem related to the alleviation of
poverty; or
(B) helps identify and promote a broad
range of ideas and practices facilitating fur-
ther development of an idea or practice by
third parties.
(5) EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM.—None of
the funds made available by this Act may be
used to modify the Exchange Visitor Pro-
gram administered by the Department of
State to implement the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amend-
ed, (Public Law 87–256; 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S416 January 22, 2019
except through the formal rulemaking proc-
ess pursuant to the Administrative Proce-
dure Act and notwithstanding the exceptions
to such rulemaking process in such Act: Pro-
vided, That funds made available for such
purpose shall only be made available after
consultation with, and subject to the regular
notification procedures of, the Committees
on Appropriations, regarding how any pro-
posed modification would affect the public
diplomacy goals of, and the estimated eco-
nomic impact on, the United States.
(6) REPORT.—The report required by sec-
tion 502(d) of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division N of Public
Law 115–31; 22 U.S.C. 254a note) shall be pro-
vided to the Committees on Appropriations.
(7) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS.—Of the
funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Development Assistance’’ and
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ that are made
available for private sector partnerships, up
to $50,000,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds
made available pursuant to this paragraph
may only be made available following prior
consultation with the appropriate congres-
sional committees, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations.
(f) PARTNER VETTING.—Prior to initiating a
partner vetting program, or making signifi-
cant changes to the scope of an existing
partner vetting program, the Secretary of
State and USAID Administrator, as appro-
priate, shall consult with the Committees on
Appropriations.
(g) CONTINGENCIES.—During fiscal year
2019, the President may use up to $125,000,000
under the authority of section 451 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding
any other provision of law.
(h) INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTIONS.—The
Secretary of State should withhold funds ap-
propriated under title III of this Act for as-
sistance for the central government of any
country that is not taking appropriate steps
to comply with the Convention on the Civil
Aspects of International Child Abductions,
done at the Hague on October 25, 1980: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations within 15
days of withholding funds under this sub-
section.
(i) CULTURAL PRESERVATION PROJECT DE-
TERMINATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated in titles I and III of this Act may be
used for the preservation of religious sites
unless the Secretary of State or the USAID
Administrator, as appropriate, determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that such sites are historically, artis-
tically, or culturally significant, that the
purpose of the project is neither to advance
nor to inhibit the free exercise of religion,
and that the project is in the national inter-
est of the United States.
(j) TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY PROTECTION.—The Secretary of State
may transfer to, and merge with, funds
under the heading ‘‘Protection of Foreign
Missions and Officials’’ unobligated balances
of expired funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ for fiscal
year 2019, except for funds designated for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, at no
later than the end of the fifth fiscal year
after the last fiscal year for which such
funds are available for the purposes for
which appropriated: Provided, That not more
than $50,000,000 may be transferred.
(k) AUTHORITY TO COUNTER EXTREMISM.—
Funds made available by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ to
counter extremism may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
restricting assistance to foreign countries,
except sections 502B and 620A of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the use
of the authority of this subsection shall be
subject to prior consultation with the appro-
priate congressional committees, and the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(l) PROTECTIONS AND REMEDIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND INTER-
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.—Section 7034(k) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113–
235) shall continue in effect during fiscal
year 2019.
(m) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES.—
(1) PASSPORT FEES.—Section 1(b)(2) of the
Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C.
214(b)(2)) shall be applied by substituting
‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30,
2010’’.
(2) INCENTIVES FOR CRITICAL POSTS.—The
authority contained in section 1115(d) of the
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–32) shall remain in effect through
September 30, 2019.
(3) USAID CIVIL SERVICE ANNUITANT WAIV-
ER.—Section 625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2385(j)(1)) shall be
applied by substituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’
for ‘‘October 1, 2010’’ in subparagraph (B).
(4) OVERSEAS PAY COMPARABILITY AND LIMI-
TATION.—
(A) Subject to the limitation described in
subparagraph (B), the authority provided by
section 1113 of the Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32) shall re-
main in effect through September 30, 2019.
(B) The authority described in subpara-
graph (A) may not be used to pay an eligible
member of the Foreign Service (as defined in
section 1113(b) of the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32)) a lo-
cality-based comparability payment (stated
as a percentage) that exceeds two-thirds of
the amount of the locality-based com-
parability payment (stated as a percentage)
that would be payable to such member under
section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, if
such member’s official duty station were in
the District of Columbia.
(5) CATEGORICAL ELIGIBILITY.—The Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public
Law 101–167) is amended—
(A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)—
(i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ‘‘and
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2018, and 2019’’; and
(ii) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2018’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2019’’;
and
(B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in
subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019’’.
(6) INSPECTOR GENERAL ANNUITANT WAIV-
ER.—The authorities provided in section
1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111–212) shall remain in
effect through September 30, 2019.
(7) ACCOUNTABILITY REVIEW BOARDS.—The
authority provided by section 301(a)(3) of the
Omnibus Diplomatic Security and
Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C.
4831(a)(3)) shall remain in effect for facilities
in Afghanistan through September 30, 2019,
except that the notification and reporting
requirements contained in such section shall
include the Committees on Appropriations.
(8) SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AF-
GHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION COMPETITIVE STA-
TUS.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, any employee of the Special Inspec-
tor General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
(SIGAR) who completes at least 12 months of
continuous service after the date of enact-
ment of this Act or who is employed on the
date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever
occurs first, shall acquire competitive status
for appointment to any position in the com-
petitive service for which the employee pos-
sesses the required qualifications.
(9) TRANSFER OF BALANCES.—Section 7081(h)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31) shall continue in effect during fiscal year
2019.
(10) DEPARTMENT OF STATE INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Inspector
General of the Department of State may
waive the provisions of subsections (a)
through (d) of section 824 of the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064) on a case-
by-case basis for an annuitant reemployed by
the Inspector General on a temporary basis,
subject to the same constraints and in the
same manner by which the Secretary of
State may exercise such waiver authority
pursuant to subsection (g) of such section.
(11) EXTENSION OF LOAN GUARANTEES TO
ISRAEL.—Chapter 5 of title I of the Emer-
gency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2003 (Public Law 108–11; 117 Stat. 576) is
amended under the heading ‘‘Loan Guaran-
tees to Israel’’—
(A) in the matter preceding the first pro-
viso, by striking ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2023’’; and
(B) in the second proviso, by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
(n) MONITORING AND EVALUATION.—Funds
appropriated by this Act that are available
for monitoring and evaluation of assistance
under the headings ‘‘Development Assist-
ance’’, ‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’
and ‘‘Migration and Refugee Assistance’’
shall, as appropriate, be made available for
the regular collection of feedback obtained
directly from beneficiaries on the quality
and relevance of such assistance: Provided,
That the Department of State and USAID
shall establish procedures for implementing
partners that receive funds under such head-
ings for regularly collecting and responding
to such feedback, informing the Department
of State and USAID of such procedures, and
reporting to the Department of State and
USAID on actions taken in response to the
feedback received: Provided further, That the
Department of State and USAID shall regu-
larly conduct oversight to ensure that such
feedback is regularly collected and used by
implementing partners to maximize the
cost-effectiveness and utility of such assist-
ance.
(o) HIV/AIDS WORKING CAPITAL FUND.—
Funds available in the HIV/AIDS Working
Capital Fund established pursuant to section
525(b)(1) of the Foreign Operations, Export
Financing, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447) may be
made available for pharmaceuticals and
other products for child survival, malaria,
and tuberculosis to the same extent as HIV/
AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products,
subject to the terms and conditions in such
section: Provided, That the authority in sec-
tion 525(b)(5) of the Foreign Operations, Ex-
port Financing, and Related Programs Ap-
propriation Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447)
shall be exercised by the Assistant Adminis-
trator for Global Health, USAID, with re-
spect to funds deposited for such non-HIV/
AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products,
and shall be subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of State shall include in the congres-
sional budget justification an accounting of
budgetary resources, disbursements, bal-
ances, and reimbursements related to such
fund.
(p) LOANS, CONSULTATION, AND NOTIFICA-
TION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S417
January 22, 2019
(1) LOAN GUARANTEES.—Funds appropriated
under the headings ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ and ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’ by this Act and prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams may be made available for the costs,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for
Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, and Ukraine, which
are authorized to be provided: Provided, That
amounts made available under this para-
graph for the costs of such guarantees shall
not be considered assistance for the purposes
of provisions of law limiting assistance to a
country.
(2) DESIGNATION REQUIREMENT.—Funds
made available pursuant to paragraph (1)
from prior Acts making appropriations for
the Department of State, foreign operations,
and related programs that were previously
designated by the Congress for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 are designated by the
Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.
(3) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available pursuant to the au-
thorities of this subsection shall be subject
to prior consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees, and subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(q) LOCAL WORKS.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Development Assist-
ance’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made
available for Local Works pursuant to sec-
tion 7080 of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law
113–235), which may remain available until
September 30, 2023.
(2) For the purposes of section 7080 of the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2015 (division J of Public Law 113–235), ‘‘eligi-
ble entities’’ shall be defined as small local,
international, and United States-based non-
governmental organizations, educational in-
stitutions, and other small entities that
have received less than a total of $5,000,000
from USAID over the previous 5 fiscal years:
Provided, That departments or centers of
such educational institutions may be consid-
ered individually in determining such eligi-
bility.
(r) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—Unless otherwise defined in this Act,
for purposes of this Act the term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees’’ means the
Committees on Appropriations and Foreign
Relations of the Senate and the Committees
on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) FUNDS APPROPRIATED BY THIS ACT AND
PRIOR ACTS.—Unless otherwise defined in this
Act, for purposes of this Act the term ‘‘funds
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams’’ means funds that remain available
for obligation, and have not expired.
(3) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—In this Act ‘‘international financial
institutions’’ means the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, the
International Development Association, the
International Finance Corporation, the
Inter-American Development Bank, the
International Monetary Fund, the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development,
the Asian Development Fund, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the
North American Development Bank, the Eu-
ropean Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment, the African Development Bank, the
African Development Fund, and the Multi-
lateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
(4) SOUTHERN KORDOFAN REFERENCE.—Any
reference to Southern Kordofan in this or
any other Act making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs shall be deemed to include
portions of Western Kordofan that were pre-
viously part of Southern Kordofan prior to
the 2013 division of Southern Kordofan.
(5) USAID.—In this Act, the term ‘‘USAID’’
means the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
(6) SPEND PLAN.—In this Act, the term
‘‘spend plan’’ means a plan for the uses of
funds appropriated for a particular entity,
country, program, purpose, or account and
which shall include, at a minimum, a de-
scription of—
(A) realistic and sustainable goals, criteria
for measuring progress, and a timeline for
achieving such goals;
(B) amounts and sources of funds by ac-
count;
(C) how such funds will complement other
ongoing or planned programs; and
(D) implementing partners, to the max-
imum extent practicable.
(7) UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR GLOBAL
MEDIA.—References to the ‘‘Broadcasting
Board of Governors, International Broad-
casting Operations’’ account in any provi-
sion of law shall be construed to include the
‘‘United States Agency for Global Media’’ ac-
count in Acts making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs: Provided, That references
to the ‘‘Broadcasting Board of Governors’’ or
‘‘BBG’’ in this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
shall be construed to include the ‘‘United
States Agency for Global Media’’ or
‘‘USAGM’’.
ARAB LEAGUE BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL
SEC. 7035. It is the sense of the Congress
that—
(1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and
the secondary boycott of American firms
that have commercial ties with Israel, is an
impediment to peace in the region and to
United States investment and trade in the
Middle East and North Africa;
(2) the Arab League boycott, which was re-
grettably reinstated in 1997, should be imme-
diately and publicly terminated, and the
Central Office for the Boycott of Israel im-
mediately disbanded;
(3) all Arab League states should normalize
relations with their neighbor Israel;
(4) the President and the Secretary of
State should continue to vigorously oppose
the Arab League boycott of Israel and find
concrete steps to demonstrate that opposi-
tion by, for example, taking into consider-
ation the participation of any recipient
country in the boycott when determining to
sell weapons to said country; and
(5) the President should report to Congress
annually on specific steps being taken by the
United States to encourage Arab League
states to normalize their relations with
Israel to bring about the termination of the
Arab League boycott of Israel, including
those to encourage allies and trading part-
ners of the United States to enact laws pro-
hibiting businesses from complying with the
boycott and penalizing businesses that do
comply.
PALESTINIAN STATEHOOD
SEC. 7036. (a) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be provided to
support a Palestinian state unless the Sec-
retary of State determines and certifies to
the appropriate congressional committees
that—
(1) the governing entity of a new Pales-
tinian state—
(A) has demonstrated a firm commitment
to peaceful co-existence with the State of
Israel; and
(B) is taking appropriate measures to
counter terrorism and terrorist financing in
the West Bank and Gaza, including the dis-
mantling of terrorist infrastructures, and is
cooperating with appropriate Israeli and
other appropriate security organizations;
and
(2) the Palestinian Authority (or the gov-
erning entity of a new Palestinian state) is
working with other countries in the region
to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a
just, lasting, and comprehensive peace in the
Middle East that will enable Israel and an
independent Palestinian state to exist within
the context of full and normal relationships,
which should include—
(A) termination of all claims or states of
belligerency;
(B) respect for and acknowledgment of the
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and polit-
ical independence of every state in the area
through measures including the establish-
ment of demilitarized zones;
(C) their right to live in peace within se-
cure and recognized boundaries free from
threats or acts of force;
(D) freedom of navigation through inter-
national waterways in the area; and
(E) a framework for achieving a just settle-
ment of the refugee problem.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the governing entity should
enact a constitution assuring the rule of law,
an independent judiciary, and respect for
human rights for its citizens, and should
enact other laws and regulations assuring
transparent and accountable governance.
(c) WAIVER.—The President may waive sub-
section (a) if the President determines that
it is important to the national security in-
terest of the United States to do so.
(d) EXEMPTION.—The restriction in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to assistance in-
tended to help reform the Palestinian Au-
thority and affiliated institutions, or the
governing entity, in order to help meet the
requirements of subsection (a), consistent
with the provisions of section 7040 of this Act
(‘‘Limitation on Assistance for the Pales-
tinian Authority’’).
RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING THE PALESTINIAN
AUTHORITY
SEC. 7037. None of the funds appropriated
under titles II through VI of this Act may be
obligated or expended to create in any part
of Jerusalem a new office of any department
or agency of the United States Government
for the purpose of conducting official United
States Government business with the Pales-
tinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or
any successor Palestinian governing entity
provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of
Principles: Provided, That this restriction
shall not apply to the acquisition of addi-
tional space for the existing Consulate Gen-
eral in Jerusalem: Provided further, That
meetings between officers and employees of
the United States and officials of the Pales-
tinian Authority, or any successor Pales-
tinian governing entity provided for in the
Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the
purpose of conducting official United States
Government business with such authority
should continue to take place in locations
other than Jerusalem: Provided further, That
as has been true in the past, officers and em-
ployees of the United States Government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S418 January 22, 2019
may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other
subjects with Palestinians (including those
who now occupy positions in the Palestinian
Authority), have social contacts, and have
incidental discussions.
PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO THE
PALESTINIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION
SEC. 7038. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act may
be used to provide equipment, technical sup-
port, consulting services, or any other form
of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting
Corporation.
ASSISTANCE FOR THE WEST BANK AND GAZA
SEC. 7039. (a) OVERSIGHT.—For fiscal year
2019, 30 days prior to the initial obligation of
funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify
to the Committees on Appropriations that
procedures have been established to assure
the Comptroller General of the United States
will have access to appropriate United States
financial information in order to review the
uses of United States assistance for the Pro-
gram funded under the heading ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’ for the West Bank and Gaza.
(b) VETTING.—Prior to the obligation of
funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for as-
sistance for the West Bank and Gaza, the
Secretary of State shall take all appropriate
steps to ensure that such assistance is not
provided to or through any individual, pri-
vate or government entity, or educational
institution that the Secretary knows or has
reason to believe advocates, plans, sponsors,
engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist ac-
tivity nor, with respect to private entities or
educational institutions, those that have as
a principal officer of the entity’s governing
board or governing board of trustees any in-
dividual that has been determined to be in-
volved in, or advocating terrorist activity or
determined to be a member of a designated
foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate,
establish procedures specifying the steps to
be taken in carrying out this subsection and
shall terminate assistance to any individual,
entity, or educational institution which the
Secretary has determined to be involved in
or advocating terrorist activity.
(c) PROHIBITION.—
(1) RECOGNITION OF ACTS OF TERRORISM.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act for assistance
under the West Bank and Gaza Program may
be made available for—
(A) the purpose of recognizing or otherwise
honoring individuals who commit, or have
committed acts of terrorism; and
(B) any educational institution located in
the West Bank or Gaza that is named after
an individual who the Secretary of State de-
termines has committed an act of terrorism.
(2) SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENT.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, none of the funds made avail-
able by this or prior appropriations Acts, in-
cluding funds made available by transfer,
may be made available for obligation for se-
curity assistance for the West Bank and
Gaza until the Secretary of State reports to
the Committees on Appropriations on the
benchmarks that have been established for
security assistance for the West Bank and
Gaza and reports on the extent of Pales-
tinian compliance with such benchmarks.
(d) OVERSIGHT BY THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.—
(1) The Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development shall
ensure that Federal or non-Federal audits of
all contractors and grantees, and significant
subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the
West Bank and Gaza Program, are conducted
at least on an annual basis to ensure, among
other things, compliance with this section.
(2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act,
up to $1,000,000 may be used by the Office of
Inspector General of the United States Agen-
cy for International Development for audits,
investigations, and other activities in fur-
therance of the requirements of this sub-
section: Provided, That such funds are in ad-
dition to funds otherwise available for such
purposes.
(e) COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES AUDIT.—Subsequent to the certifi-
cation specified in subsection (a), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
conduct an audit and an investigation of the
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for
the bilateral West Bank and Gaza Program,
including all funds provided as cash transfer
assistance, in fiscal year 2019 under the head-
ing ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and such
audit shall address—
(1) the extent to which such Program com-
plies with the requirements of subsections
(b) and (c); and
(2) an examination of all programs,
projects, and activities carried out under
such Program, including both obligations
and expenditures.
(f) NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.—Funds made
available in this Act for West Bank and Gaza
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE FOR THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
SEC. 7040. (a) PROHIBITION OF FUNDS.—None
of the funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may
be obligated or expended with respect to pro-
viding funds to the Palestinian Authority.
(b) WAIVER.—The prohibition included in
subsection (a) shall not apply if the Presi-
dent certifies in writing to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives, the President
pro tempore of the Senate, and the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that waiving such
prohibition is important to the national se-
curity interest of the United States.
(c) PERIOD OF APPLICATION OF WAIVER.—
Any waiver pursuant to subsection (b) shall
be effective for no more than a period of 6
months at a time and shall not apply beyond
12 months after the enactment of this Act.
(d) REPORT.—Whenever the waiver author-
ity pursuant to subsection (b) is exercised,
the President shall submit a report to the
Committees on Appropriations detailing the
justification for the waiver, the purposes for
which the funds will be spent, and the ac-
counting procedures in place to ensure that
the funds are properly disbursed: Provided,
That the report shall also detail the steps
the Palestinian Authority has taken to ar-
rest terrorists, confiscate weapons and dis-
mantle the terrorist infrastructure.
(e) CERTIFICATION.—If the President exer-
cises the waiver authority under subsection
(b), the Secretary of State must certify and
report to the Committees on Appropriations
prior to the obligation of funds that the Pal-
estinian Authority has established a single
treasury account for all Palestinian Author-
ity financing and all financing mechanisms
flow through this account, no parallel fi-
nancing mechanisms exist outside of the Pal-
estinian Authority treasury account, and
there is a single comprehensive civil service
roster and payroll, and the Palestinian Au-
thority is acting to counter incitement of vi-
olence against Israelis and is supporting ac-
tivities aimed at promoting peace, coexist-
ence, and security cooperation with Israel.
(f) PROHIBITION TO HAMAS AND THE PAL-
ESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION.—
(1) None of the funds appropriated in titles
III through VI of this Act may be obligated
for salaries of personnel of the Palestinian
Authority located in Gaza or may be obli-
gated or expended for assistance to Hamas or
any entity effectively controlled by Hamas,
any power-sharing government of which
Hamas is a member, or that results from an
agreement with Hamas and over which
Hamas exercises undue influence.
(2) Notwithstanding the limitation of para-
graph (1), assistance may be provided to a
power-sharing government only if the Presi-
dent certifies and reports to the Committees
on Appropriations that such government, in-
cluding all of its ministers or such equiva-
lent, has publicly accepted and is complying
with the principles contained in section
620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, as amended.
(3) The President may exercise the author-
ity in section 620K(e) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, as added by the Palestinian
Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–
446) with respect to this subsection.
(4) Whenever the certification pursuant to
paragraph (2) is exercised, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations within 120 days of the
certification and every quarter thereafter on
whether such government, including all of
its ministers or such equivalent are con-
tinuing to comply with the principles con-
tained in section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended:
Provided, That the report shall also detail
the amount, purposes and delivery mecha-
nisms for any assistance provided pursuant
to the abovementioned certification and a
full accounting of any direct support of such
government.
(5) None of the funds appropriated under ti-
tles III through VI of this Act may be obli-
gated for assistance for the Palestine Libera-
tion Organization.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
SEC. 7041. (a) EGYPT.—
(1) CERTIFICATION AND REPORT.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act that are available for
assistance for Egypt may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
restricting assistance for Egypt, except for
this subsection and section 620M of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Egypt if the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that such government is—
(A) sustaining the strategic relationship
with the United States; and
(B) meeting its obligations under the 1979
Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty.
(2) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—
(A) FUNDING.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, up to $112,500,000 may be made
available for assistance for Egypt, of which
not less than $35,000,000 should be made
available for higher education programs in-
cluding not less than $10,000,000 for scholar-
ships for Egyptian students with high finan-
cial need to attend not-for-profit institutions
of higher education: Provided, That such
funds shall be made available for democracy
programs, and for development programs in
the Sinai: Provided further, That such funds
may not be made available for cash transfer
assistance or budget support unless the Sec-
retary of State certifies and reports to the
appropriate congressional committees that
the Government of Egypt is taking con-
sistent and effective steps to stabilize the
economy and implement market-based eco-
nomic reforms.
(B) WITHHOLDING.—The Secretary of State
shall withhold from obligation funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
Egypt, an amount of such funds that the Sec-
retary determines to be equivalent to that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S419
January 22, 2019
expended by the United States Government
for bail, and by nongovernmental organiza-
tions for legal and court fees, associated
with democracy-related trials in Egypt until
the Secretary certifies and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that the Gov-
ernment of Egypt has dismissed the convic-
tions issued by the Cairo Criminal Court on
June 4, 2013, in ‘‘Public Prosecution Case No.
1110 for the Year 2012’’, and has not subjected
the defendants to further prosecution or if
convicted they have been granted full par-
dons.
(C) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ may be made available for a contribu-
tion, voluntary or otherwise, to the ‘‘Civil
Associations and Foundations Support
Fund’’, or any similar fund, established pur-
suant to Law 70 on Associations and Other
Foundations Working in the Field of Civil
Work published in the Official Gazette of
Egypt on May 29, 2017.
(3) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—
(A) CERTIFICATION.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘For-
eign Military Financing Program’’, up to
$1,300,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, may be made available for
assistance for Egypt: Provided, That such
funds may be transferred to an interest bear-
ing account in the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, following consultation with the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That $300,000,000 of such funds shall be
withheld from obligation until the Secretary
of State certifies and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the Government
of Egypt is taking sustained and effective
steps to—
(i) advance democracy and human rights in
Egypt, including to govern democratically
and protect religious minorities and the
rights of women, which are in addition to
steps taken during the previous calendar
year for such purposes;
(ii) implement reforms that protect free-
doms of expression, association, and peaceful
assembly, including the ability of civil soci-
ety organizations, human rights defenders,
and the media to function without inter-
ference;
(iii) release political prisoners and provide
detainees with due process of law;
(iv) hold Egyptian security forces account-
able, including officers credibly alleged to
have violated human rights;
(v) investigate and prosecute cases of
extrajudicial killings and forced disappear-
ances; and
(vi) provide regular access for United
States officials to monitor such assistance in
areas where the assistance is used:
Provided further, That the certification re-
quirement of this paragraph shall not apply
to funds appropriated by this Act under such
heading for counterterrorism, border secu-
rity, and nonproliferation programs for
Egypt.
(B) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the certification requirement in sub-
paragraph (A) if the Secretary determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that to do so is important to the na-
tional security interest of the United States,
and submits a report to such Committees
containing a detailed justification for the
use of such waiver and the reasons why any
of the requirements of subparagraph (A) can-
not be met, and including an assessment of
the compliance of the Government of Egypt
with United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 2270 and other such resolutions re-
garding North Korea: Provided, That the re-
port required by this paragraph shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may be ac-
companied by a classified annex.
(4) OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENT.—The Sec-
retary of State shall take all practicable
steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place
for monitoring, oversight, and control of
funds made available by this subsection for
assistance for Egypt.
(5) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT.—Not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on any plan
to restructure military assistance for Egypt.
(b) IRAN.—
(1) FUNDING.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Programs’’ shall be used by the
Secretary of State—
(A) to support the United States policy to
prevent Iran from achieving the capability
to produce or otherwise obtain a nuclear
weapon;
(B) to support an expeditious response to
any violation of United Nations Security
Council Resolutions or to efforts that ad-
vance Iran’s nuclear program;
(C) to support the implementation and en-
forcement of sanctions against Iran for sup-
port of nuclear weapons development, ter-
rorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic
missile and weapons proliferation; and
(D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be
administered by the Assistant Secretary for
Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State,
in consultation with the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State.
(2) CONTINUATION OF PROHIBITION.—The
terms and conditions of section 7041(c)(2) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112–
74) shall continue in effect during fiscal year
2019.
(3) REPORTS.—
(A) SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT.—The Secretary
of State shall submit to the Committees on
Appropriations the semi-annual report re-
quired by section 135 of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160e(d)(4)), as added by
section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Re-
view Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–17).
(B) SANCTIONS REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
a report on the status of the implementation
and enforcement of bilateral United States
and multilateral sanctions against Iran and
actions taken by the United States and the
international community to enforce such
sanctions against Iran: Provided, That the re-
port shall also include any entities involved
in providing significant support for the de-
velopment of a ballistic missile by the Gov-
ernment of Iran after October 1, 2015, includ-
ing shipping and financing, and note whether
such entities are currently under United
States sanctions: Provided further, That such
report shall be submitted in an unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex if
necessary.
(c) IRAQ.—
(1) PURPOSES.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available for assistance for Iraq for—
(A) bilateral economic assistance and
international security assistance, including
for the Marla Ruzicka Iraqi War Victims
Fund;
(B) stabilization assistance at not less than
the amounts specified for such purpose in the
table under this subsection in the explana-
tory statement described in section 4 (in the
matter preceding division A of this consoli-
dated Act);
(C) humanitarian assistance, including in
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq; and
(D) programs to protect and assist reli-
gious and ethnic minority populations in
Iraq.
(2) BASING RIGHTS AGREEMENT.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the Govern-
ment of the United States to enter into a
permanent basing rights agreement between
the United States and Iraq.
(d) JORDAN.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$1,525,000,000 shall be made available for as-
sistance for Jordan, of which: not less than
$1,082,400,000 shall be made available under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, of
which not less than $745,100,000 shall be made
available for budget support for the Govern-
ment of Jordan; and not less than $425,000,000
shall be made available under the heading
‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’.
(e) LEBANON.—
(1) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for the Lebanese Internal Security Forces
(ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if
the ISF or the LAF is controlled by a foreign
terrorist organization, as designated pursu-
ant to section 219 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
(2) CONSULTATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’
and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’
that are available for assistance for Lebanon
may be made available for programs and
equipment for the ISF and the LAF to ad-
dress security and stability requirements in
areas affected by the conflict in Syria, fol-
lowing consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees.
(3) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ that are available for
assistance for Lebanon may be made avail-
able notwithstanding section 1224 of the For-
eign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107–228; 22 U.S.C. 2346
note).
(4) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—In addition to the activities de-
scribed in paragraph (2), funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ for assistance for
Lebanon may be made available only to pro-
fessionalize the LAF and to strengthen bor-
der security and combat terrorism, including
training and equipping the LAF to secure
Lebanon’s borders, interdicting arms ship-
ments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a
safe haven for terrorist groups, and to imple-
ment United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 1701: Provided, That funds may not be
obligated for assistance for the LAF until
the Secretary of State submits to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a spend plan, in-
cluding actions to be taken to ensure equip-
ment provided to the LAF is only used for
the intended purposes, except such plan may
not be considered as meeting the notifica-
tion requirements under section 7015 of this
Act or under section 634A of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, and shall be submitted
not later than September 1, 2019: Provided
further, That any notification submitted pur-
suant to such sections shall include any
funds specifically intended for lethal mili-
tary equipment.
(f) LIBYA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available for stabilization assistance for
Libya, including border security: Provided,
That the limitation on the uses of funds for
certain infrastructure projects in section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S420 January 22, 2019
7041(f)(2) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law
113–76) shall apply to such funds.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—Prior to the initial ob-
ligation of funds made available by this Act
for assistance for Libya, the Secretary of
State shall certify and report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations that all prac-
ticable steps have been taken to ensure that
mechanisms are in place for monitoring,
oversight, and control of such funds.
(3) COOPERATION ON THE SEPTEMBER 2012 AT-
TACK ON UNITED STATES PERSONNEL AND FA-
CILITIES.—None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of Libya
unless the Secretary of State certifies and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is cooperating with
United States Government efforts to inves-
tigate and bring to justice those responsible
for the attack on United States personnel
and facilities in Benghazi, Libya in Sep-
tember 2012: Provided, That the limitation in
this paragraph shall not apply to funds made
available for the purpose of protecting
United States Government personnel or fa-
cilities.
(g) MOROCCO.—
(1) AVAILABILITY AND CONSULTATION RE-
QUIREMENT.—Funds appropriated under title
III of this Act shall be made available for as-
sistance for the Western Sahara: Provided,
That not later than 90 days after enactment
of this Act and prior to the obligation of
such funds, the Secretary of State, in con-
sultation with the USAID Administrator,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations on the proposed uses of such funds.
(2) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ that are available for assist-
ance for Morocco may only be used for the
purposes requested in the Congressional
Budget Justification, Foreign Operations,
Fiscal Year 2017.
(h) REFUGEE ASSISTANCE IN NORTH AFRI-
CA.—Not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State, after con-
sultation with the United Nations High Com-
missioner for Refugees and the Executive Di-
rector of the World Food Programme, shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations describing steps taken to strength-
en monitoring of the delivery of humani-
tarian assistance provided for refugees in
North Africa, including any steps taken to
ensure that all vulnerable refugees are re-
ceiving such assistance.
(i) SYRIA.—
(1) NON-LETHAL ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
and ‘‘Peacekeeping Operations’’, not less
than $40,000,000 shall be made available, not-
withstanding any other provision of law, for
non-lethal stabilization assistance for Syria,
of which not less than $7,000,000 shall be
made available for emergency medical and
rescue response and chemical weapons use
investigations.
(2) SYRIAN ORGANIZATIONS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for assistance for Syria shall be made avail-
able, on an open and competitive basis, to
continue to strengthen the capability of Syr-
ian civil society organizations to address the
immediate and long-term needs of the Syr-
ian people in Syria in a manner that sup-
ports the sustainability of such organiza-
tions in implementing Syrian-led humani-
tarian and development programs: Provided,
That funds made available by this paragraph
shall be administered by the Bureau for De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Depart-
ment of State.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—Funds made available
pursuant to paragraph (1) of this sub-
section—
(A) may not be made available for a
project or activity that supports or other-
wise legitimizes the Government of Iran, for-
eign terrorist organizations (as designated
pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)), or a
proxy of Iran in Syria; and
(B) should not be used in areas of Syria
controlled by a government led by Bashar al-
Assad or associated forces.
(4) MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.—Prior to
the obligation of funds appropriated by this
Act and made available for assistance for
Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all
practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms
are in place for monitoring, oversight, and
control of such assistance inside Syria.
(5) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available pursuant to this sub-
section may only be made available fol-
lowing consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees, and shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(j) TUNISIA.—Of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $191,400,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Tunisia.
(k) WEST BANK AND GAZA.—
(1) REPORT ON ASSISTANCE.—Prior to the
initial obligation of funds made available by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’ for assistance for the West Bank
and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report
to the Committees on Appropriations that
the purpose of such assistance is to—
(A) advance Middle East peace;
(B) improve security in the region;
(C) continue support for transparent and
accountable government institutions;
(D) promote a private sector economy; or
(E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
(2) LIMITATIONS.—
(A)(i) None of the funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ in
this Act may be made available for assist-
ance for the Palestinian Authority, if after
the date of enactment of this Act—
(I) the Palestinians obtain the same stand-
ing as member states or full membership as
a state in the United Nations or any special-
ized agency thereof outside an agreement ne-
gotiated between Israel and the Palestinians;
or
(II) the Palestinians initiate an Inter-
national Criminal Court (ICC) judicially au-
thorized investigation, or actively support
such an investigation, that subjects Israeli
nationals to an investigation for alleged
crimes against Palestinians.
(ii) The Secretary of State may waive the
restriction in clause (i) of this subparagraph
resulting from the application of subclause
(I) of such clause if the Secretary certifies to
the Committees on Appropriations that to do
so is in the national security interest of the
United States, and submits a report to such
Committees detailing how the waiver and
the continuation of assistance would assist
in furthering Middle East peace.
(B)(i) The President may waive the provi-
sions of section 1003 of the Foreign Relations
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989
(Public Law 100–204) if the President deter-
mines and certifies in writing to the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate, and the ap-
propriate congressional committees that the
Palestinians have not, after the date of en-
actment of this Act—
(I) obtained in the United Nations or any
specialized agency thereof the same standing
as member states or full membership as a
state outside an agreement negotiated be-
tween Israel and the Palestinians; and
(II) initiated or actively supported an ICC
investigation against Israeli nationals for al-
leged crimes against Palestinians.
(ii) Not less than 90 days after the Presi-
dent is unable to make the certification pur-
suant to clause (i) of this subparagraph, the
President may waive section 1003 of Public
Law 100–204 if the President determines and
certifies in writing to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, the President pro
tempore of the Senate, and the Committees
on Appropriations that the Palestinians have
entered into direct and meaningful negotia-
tions with Israel: Provided, That any waiver
of the provisions of section 1003 of Public
Law 100–204 under clause (i) of this subpara-
graph or under previous provisions of law
must expire before the waiver under the pre-
ceding sentence may be exercised.
(iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subpara-
graph shall be effective for no more than a
period of 6 months at a time and shall not
apply beyond 12 months after the enactment
of this Act.
(3) REDUCTION.—The Secretary of State
shall reduce the amount of assistance made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for the Pales-
tinian Authority by an amount the Sec-
retary determines is equivalent to the
amount expended by the Palestinian Author-
ity, the Palestine Liberation Organization,
and any successor or affiliated organizations
with such entities as payments for acts of
terrorism by individuals who are imprisoned
after being fairly tried and convicted for acts
of terrorism and by individuals who died
committing acts of terrorism during the pre-
vious calendar year: Provided, That the Sec-
retary shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations on the amount reduced for fis-
cal year 2019 prior to the obligation of funds
for the Palestinian Authority.
(4) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIP PRO-
GRAMS.—Funds appropriated by this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs may be made available for
private sector partnership programs for the
West Bank and Gaza if such funds are au-
thorized: Provided, That funds made avail-
able pursuant to this paragraph shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with the appro-
priate congressional committees, and the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(5) SECURITY REPORT.—The reporting re-
quirements in section 1404 of the Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law
110–252) shall apply to funds made available
by this Act, including a description of modi-
fications, if any, to the security strategy of
the Palestinian Authority.
(6) INCITEMENT REPORT.—Not later than 90
days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of State shall submit a report to the
appropriate congressional committees de-
tailing steps taken by the Palestinian Au-
thority to counter incitement of violence
against Israelis and to promote peace and co-
existence with Israel.
(l) YEMEN.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ shall be made available for stabiliza-
tion assistance for Yemen.
AFRICA
SEC. 7042. (a) AFRICAN GREAT LAKES REGION
ASSISTANCE RESTRICTION.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Military Education and Training’’
for the central government of a country in
the African Great Lakes region may be made
available only for Expanded International
Military Education and Training and profes-
sional military education until the Sec-
retary of State determines and reports to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S421
January 22, 2019
Committees on Appropriations that such
government is not facilitating or otherwise
participating in destabilizing activities in a
neighboring country, including aiding and
abetting armed groups.
(b) CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.—Funds
made available by this Act for assistance for
the Central African Republic shall be made
available for reconciliation and
peacebuilding programs, including activities
to promote inter-faith dialogue at the na-
tional and local levels, and for programs to
prevent crimes against humanity.
(c) COUNTER LORD’S RESISTANCE ARMY.—
Funds appropriated by this Act shall be
made available for programs and activities
in areas affected by the Lord’s Resistance
Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of the
Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and
Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–172), including to improve phys-
ical access, telecommunications infrastruc-
ture, and early-warning mechanisms and to
support the disarmament, demobilization,
and reintegration of former LRA combat-
ants, especially child soldiers.
(d) LAKE CHAD BASIN COUNTRIES.—Funds
appropriated under titles III and IV of this
Act shall be made available, following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions, for assistance for Cameroon, Chad,
Niger, and Nigeria for—
(1) democracy, development, and health
programs;
(2) assistance for individuals targeted by
foreign terrorist and other extremist organi-
zations, including Boko Haram, consistent
with the provisions of section 7059 of this
Act;
(3) assistance for individuals displaced by
violent conflict; and
(4) counterterrorism programs.
(e) MALAWI.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Development
Assistance’’, not less than $56,000,000 shall be
made available for assistance for Malawi, of
which up to $10,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for higher education programs.
(f) SOUTH SUDAN.—Funds appropriated by
this Act that are made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of South
Sudan may only be made available, following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations, for—
(1) humanitarian assistance;
(2) health programs, including to prevent,
detect, and respond to the Ebola virus dis-
ease;
(3) assistance to support South Sudan
peace negotiations or to advance or imple-
ment a peace agreement; and
(4) assistance to support implementation of
outstanding issues of the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement and mutual arrangements
related to such agreement:
Provided, That of the funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for South Sudan, not
less than $7,000,000 shall be made available
for conflict mitigation and reconciliation
programs: Provided further, That prior to the
initial obligation of funds made available
pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the intended
uses of such funds and steps taken by such
government to advance or implement a
peace agreement.
(g) SUDAN.—
(1) LIMITATIONS.—
(A) ASSISTANCE.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, none of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act may be made avail-
able for assistance for the Government of
Sudan.
(B) LOANS.—None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be made available for the
cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans
and loan guarantees held by the Government
of Sudan, including the cost of selling, reduc-
ing, or canceling amounts owed to the
United States, and modifying concessional
loans, guarantees, and credit agreements.
(2) EXCLUSIONS.—The limitations of para-
graph (1) shall not apply to—
(A) humanitarian assistance;
(B) assistance for democracy programs;
(C) assistance for the Darfur region, South-
ern Kordofan State, Blue Nile State, other
marginalized areas and populations in
Sudan, and Abyei; and
(D) assistance to support implementation
of outstanding issues of the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement, mutual arrangements re-
lated to post-referendum issues associated
with such Agreement, or any other inter-
nationally recognized viable peace agree-
ment in Sudan.
(h) ZIMBABWE.—
(1) INSTRUCTION.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each international finan-
cial institution to vote against any exten-
sion by the respective institution of any loan
or grant to the Government of Zimbabwe, ex-
cept to meet basic human needs or to pro-
mote democracy, unless the Secretary of
State certifies and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the rule of law
has been restored, including respect for own-
ership and title to property, and freedoms of
expression, association, and assembly.
(2) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be made available
for assistance for the central Government of
Zimbabwe, except for health and education,
unless the Secretary of State certifies and
reports as required in paragraph (1), and
funds may be made available for macro-
economic growth assistance if the Secretary
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is implementing
transparent fiscal policies, including public
disclosure of revenues from the extraction of
natural resources.
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
SEC. 7043. (a) BURMA.—
(1) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.—
(A) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
Burma may be made available notwith-
standing any other provision of law, except
for this subsection, and following consulta-
tion with the appropriate congressional com-
mittees.
(B) USES.—Funds appropriated under title
III of this Act for assistance for Burma—
(i) shall be made available to strengthen
civil society organizations in Burma and for
programs to strengthen independent media;
(ii) shall be made available for community-
based organizations operating in Thailand to
provide food, medical, and other humani-
tarian assistance to internally displaced per-
sons in eastern Burma, in addition to assist-
ance for Burmese refugees from funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Mi-
gration and Refugee Assistance’’;
(iii) shall be made available for programs
to promote ethnic and religious tolerance
and to combat gender-based violence, includ-
ing in Rakhine, Shan, Kachin, and Karen
states;
(iv) shall be made available to promote
rural economic development in Burma, in-
cluding through microfinance programs;
(v) shall be made available to increase op-
portunities for foreign direct investment by
strengthening the rule of law, transparency,
and accountability;
(vi) shall be made available for programs
to investigate and document allegations of
ethnic cleansing and other gross violations
of human rights committed against the
Rohingya people in Rakhine state: Provided,
That such sums shall be in addition to funds
otherwise made available for such purposes;
(vii) shall be made available for programs
to investigate and document allegations of
gross violations of human rights committed
in Burma, particularly in areas of conflict;
and
(viii) may be made available for ethnic
groups and civil society in Burma to help
sustain ceasefire agreements and further
prospects for reconciliation and peace, which
may include support to representatives of
ethnic armed groups for this purpose.
(C) LIMITATIONS.—Funds appropriated
under title III of this Act for assistance for
Burma—
(i) may not be made available to any indi-
vidual or organization if the Secretary of
State has credible information that such in-
dividual or organization has committed a
gross violation of human rights, including
against Rohingya and other minority groups,
or that advocates violence against ethnic or
religious groups or individuals in Burma;
(ii) may not be made available to any orga-
nization or entity controlled by the armed
forces of Burma;
(iii) may only be made available for pro-
grams to support the return of Rohingya,
Karen, and other refugees and internally dis-
placed persons to their locations of origin or
preference in Burma if such returns are vol-
untary and consistent with international
law; and
(iv) may only be made available for assist-
ance for the Government of Burma to sup-
port the implementation of Nationwide
Ceasefire Agreement conferences, commit-
tees, and other procedures if the Secretary of
State reports to the Committees on Appro-
priations that such procedures are directed
toward a sustainable peace and the Govern-
ment of Burma is implementing its commit-
ments under such Agreement.
(2) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
None of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘International Military
Education and Training’’ and ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ may be made
available for assistance for Burma: Provided,
That the Department of State may continue
consultations with the armed forces of
Burma only on human rights and disaster re-
sponse in a manner consistent with the prior
fiscal year, and following consultation with
the appropriate congressional committees.
(3) PROGRAMS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(A) Any new program or activity in Burma
initiated in fiscal year 2019 shall be subject
to prior consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees.
(B) The United States Chief of Mission in
Burma, in consultation with the Assistant
Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State, shall be re-
sponsible for democracy and human rights
programs in Burma.
(b) CAMBODIA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—
(A) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act that are made available for assistance
for the Government of Cambodia, except for
health programs, may be obligated or ex-
pended unless the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that such Government is taking
effective steps to—
(i) strengthen regional security and sta-
bility, particularly regarding territorial dis-
putes in the South China Sea and the en-
forcement of international sanctions with re-
spect to North Korea; and
(ii) respect the rights and responsibilities
enshrined in the Constitution of the King-
dom of Cambodia as enacted in 1993, includ-
ing through the—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S422 January 22, 2019
(I) restoration of the civil and political
rights of the opposition Cambodia National
Rescue Party, media, and civil society orga-
nizations;
(II) restoration of all elected officials to
elected offices held prior to the July 2018
parliamentary elections; and
(III) release of all political prisoners, in-
cluding journalists, civil society activists,
and members of the opposition political
party.
(B) Funds appropriated under title III of
this Act for assistance for Cambodia shall be
made available for—
(i) democracy programs, including research
and education programs associated with the
Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, except that no
funds for such purposes may be made avail-
able to the Extraordinary Chambers in the
Court of Cambodia; and
(ii) programs in the Khmer language to
counter the influence of the People’s Repub-
lic of China in Cambodia.
(2) VISA RESTRICTION.—Funds appropriated
under title I of this Act shall be made avail-
able to continue to implement the policy an-
nounced by the Department of State on De-
cember 6, 2017, to restrict the issuance of
visas to enter the United States to individ-
uals involved in undermining democracy in
Cambodia, including the family members of
such individuals, as appropriate: Provided,
That not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit a report to the appropriate congressional
committees describing the implementation
of such policy.
(c) INDO-PACIFIC STRATEGY.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act, not less than
$160,000,000 shall be made available to sup-
port the implementation of the Indo-Pacific
Strategy: Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes.
(d) NORTH KOREA.—
(1) CYBERSECURITY.—None of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams may be made available for assistance
for the central government of a country the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the appropriate congressional committees
engages in significant transactions contrib-
uting materially to the malicious cyber-in-
trusion capabilities of the Government of
North Korea: Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall submit the report required by
section 209 of the North Korea Sanctions and
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (Public Law
114–122; 22 U.S.C. 9229), as amended, to the
Committees on Appropriations in the man-
ner described in subparagraph (2)(A) of such
section: Provided further, That the Secretary
of State may waive the application of the re-
striction in this paragraph with respect to
assistance for the central government of a
country if the Secretary determines and re-
ports to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that to do so is important to the na-
tional security interest of the United States,
including a description of such interest
served.
(2) BROADCASTS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Broadcasting Operations’’ shall be made
available to maintain broadcasting hours
into North Korea at levels not less than the
prior fiscal year.
(3) REFUGEES.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance’’ should be made available
for assistance for refugees from North Korea,
including protection activities in the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China and other countries
in Asia.
(4) HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION, DATABASE,
AND LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Democracy
Fund’’ shall be made available for the pro-
motion of human rights in North Korea: Pro-
vided, That the authority of section 7032(b) of
this Act shall apply to such funds.
(B) DATABASE.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under title III shall be made available to
maintain a database of prisons and gulags in
North Korea, in accordance with section
7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law
113–76).
(C) LIMITATION.—None of the funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may be made
available for assistance for the Government
of North Korea.
(e) PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.—
(1) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds appropriated under the heading
‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ in this Act may be
obligated or expended for processing licenses
for the export of satellites of United States
origin (including commercial satellites and
satellite components) to the People’s Repub-
lic of China (PRC) unless, at least 15 days in
advance, the Committees on Appropriations
are notified of such proposed action.
(2) PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY.—The terms
and requirements of section 620(h) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to
foreign assistance projects or activities of
the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of the
PRC, to include such projects or activities
by any entity that is owned or controlled by,
or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available pursuant to this Act may be
used to finance any grant, contract, or coop-
erative agreement with the PLA, or any en-
tity that the Secretary of State has reason
to believe is owned or controlled by, or an af-
filiate of, the PLA.
(3) AUTHORITY AND NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENT.—
(A) AUTHORITY.—The uses of funds made
available by this Act for the promotion of
democracy in the PRC, except for funds
made available under subsection (g), shall be
the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State.
(B) NOTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act that are made available for tri-
lateral programs conducted with the PRC
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
(f) PHILIPPINES.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’ may be made available for counter-
narcotics assistance for the Philippines, ex-
cept for drug demand reduction, maritime
law enforcement, or transnational interdic-
tion.
(g) TIBET.—
(1) FINANCING OF PROJECTS IN TIBET.—The
Secretary of the Treasury should instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to use the
voice and vote of the United States to sup-
port financing of projects in Tibet if such
projects do not provide incentives for the mi-
gration and settlement of non-Tibetans into
Tibet or facilitate the transfer of ownership
of Tibetan land and natural resources to
non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough needs-
assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Ti-
betan people and respect Tibetan culture and
traditions, and are subject to effective moni-
toring.
(2) PROGRAMS FOR TIBETAN COMMUNITIES.—
(A) TIBET AUTONOMOUS REGION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, of the
funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less
than $8,000,000 shall be made available to
nongovernmental organizations to support
activities which preserve cultural traditions
and promote sustainable development, edu-
cation, and environmental conservation in
Tibetan communities in the Tibet Autono-
mous Region and in other Tibetan commu-
nities in China.
(B) INDIA AND NEPAL.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, not less than
$6,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to promote and preserve Tibetan cul-
ture, development, and the resilience of Ti-
betan communities in India and Nepal, and
to assist in the education and development
of the next generation of Tibetan leaders
from such communities: Provided, That such
funds are in addition to amounts made avail-
able in subparagraph (A) for programs inside
Tibet.
(C) TIBETAN GOVERNANCE.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less than
$3,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to strengthen the capacity of Tibetan
institutions and governance.
(h) VIETNAM.—
(1) DIOXIN REMEDIATION.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less than
$20,000,000 shall be made available for activi-
ties related to the remediation of dioxin con-
taminated sites in Vietnam and may be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Vietnam, including the military, for
such purposes.
(2) HEALTH AND DISABILITY PROGRAMS.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Development Assistance’’, not less
than $12,500,000 shall be made available for
health and disability programs in areas
sprayed with Agent Orange and otherwise
contaminated with dioxin, to assist individ-
uals with severe upper or lower body mobil-
ity impairment or cognitive or develop-
mental disabilities.
(3) RECONCILIATION PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ that are made
available for assistance for Vietnam shall be
made available for reconciliation programs
to address war legacy issues.
SOUTH AND CENTRAL ASIA
SEC. 7044. (a) AFGHANISTAN.—
(1) FUNDING AND LIMITATIONS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’ that are made available for assistance
for Afghanistan—
(A) shall be made available to implement
the South Asia Strategy, the Revised Strat-
egy for United States Engagement in Af-
ghanistan, and the United States Agency for
International Development Country Devel-
opment Cooperation Strategy for Afghani-
stan;
(B) shall be made available for programs in
support of such strategies that protect and
strengthen the rights of women and girls and
promote the political and economic em-
powerment of women, including their mean-
ingful inclusion in political processes: Pro-
vided, That such assistance to promote the
economic empowerment of women shall be
made available as grants to Afghan organiza-
tions, to the maximum extent practicable;
and
(C) may not be made available for any pro-
gram, project, or activity that—
(i) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, by
the Government of Afghanistan or another
Afghan entity;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S423
January 22, 2019
(ii) is not accessible for the purposes of
conducting effective oversight in accordance
with applicable Federal statutes and regula-
tions;
(iii) initiates any new, major infrastruc-
ture development; or
(iv) includes the participation of any Af-
ghan individual, organization, or govern-
ment entity if the Secretary of State has
credible information that such individual,
organization, or entity is knowingly in-
volved in acts of grand corruption, illicit
narcotics production or trafficking, or has
committed a gross violation of human
rights.
(2) AUTHORITIES.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act under
title III through VI that are made available
for assistance for Afghanistan may be made
available—
(i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this Act
or any similar provision of law and section
660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
(ii) for reconciliation programs and disar-
mament, demobilization, and reintegration
activities for former combatants who have
renounced violence against the Government
of Afghanistan, including in accordance with
section 7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of
Public Law 112–74); and
(iii) for an endowment to empower women
and girls.
(B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of the Department
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division
I of Public Law 112–74) shall apply to funds
appropriated by this Act for assistance for
Afghanistan.
(3) BASING RIGHTS AGREEMENT.—None of the
funds made available by this Act may be
used by the United States Government to
enter into a permanent basing rights agree-
ment between the United States and Afghan-
istan.
(b) NEPAL.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $124,580,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Nepal, including for earth-
quake recovery and reconstruction pro-
grams.
(2) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ shall only be made available
for humanitarian and disaster relief and re-
construction activities in Nepal, and in sup-
port of international peacekeeping oper-
ations: Provided, That such funds may only
be made available for any additional uses if
the Secretary of State certifies and reports
to the Committees on Appropriations that
the Government of Nepal is investigating
and prosecuting violations of human rights
and the laws of war, and the Nepal Army is
cooperating fully with civilian judicial au-
thorities in such cases.
(c) PAKISTAN.—
(1) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
(A) LIMITATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ for assistance for
Pakistan may be made available only to sup-
port counterterrorism and counterinsur-
gency capabilities in Pakistan.
(B) CONSULTATION.—Not later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act, and prior to the
submission of the report required by section
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
the Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on the
amount of funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ that is anticipated to be sub-
ject to the January 2018 policy decision of
the United States to suspend security assist-
ance for Pakistan, or any subsequent policy
decision affecting such assistance: Provided,
That the Secretary shall promptly inform
the appropriate congressional committees in
writing of any changes to such policy, the
justification for such changes, and the
progress made by the Government of Paki-
stan in meeting the counterterrorism objec-
tives described under this section in Senate
Report 115–282.
(C) REPROGRAMMING.—Funds appropriated
by this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs under the
heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Pro-
gram’’ for assistance for Pakistan that are
withheld from obligation or expenditure by
the Department of State may be repro-
grammed by the Secretary of State, except
that no such funds may be reprogrammed
that are required to complete payment on
existing and previously approved contracts:
Provided, That such reprogramming shall be
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(2) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE RE-
PORT.—Prior to the obligation of funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
the central Government of Pakistan, the
Secretary of State shall submit a report to
the appropriate congressional committees
detailing—
(A) the amount of financing and other sup-
port, if any, provided by the Government of
Pakistan to schools supported by, affiliated
with, or run by the Taliban or any domestic
or foreign terrorist organization in Pakistan;
(B) the extent of cooperation by such gov-
ernment in issuing visas in a timely manner
for United States visitors, including officials
and representatives of nongovernmental or-
ganizations, engaged in assistance and secu-
rity programs in Pakistan;
(C) the extent to which such government is
providing humanitarian organizations access
to detainees, internally displaced persons,
and other Pakistani civilians affected by
conflict in Pakistan and the region; and
(D) the extent to which such government is
strengthening democracy in Pakistan, in-
cluding protecting freedom of expression, as-
sembly, and religion.
(3) AUTHORITY AND USES OF FUNDS.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act for as-
sistance for Pakistan may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
except for section 620M of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961.
(B) Funds appropriated by this Act for as-
sistance for Pakistan that are made avail-
able for infrastructure projects shall be im-
plemented in a manner consistent with sec-
tion 507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2467(6)).
(C) The authorities and directives of sec-
tion 7044(d)(4) of the Department of State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public
Law 113–235) regarding scholarships for
women shall apply to funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for Pakistan, fol-
lowing consultation with the Committees on
Appropriations.
(D) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Programs’’ that are made avail-
able for assistance for Pakistan shall be
made available to interdict precursor mate-
rials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that are
used to manufacture improvised explosive
devices and for agriculture extension pro-
grams that encourage alternative fertilizer
use among Pakistani farmers to decrease the
dual use of fertilizer in the manufacturing of
improvised explosive devices.
(E) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement’’ that are
made available for assistance for Pakistan,
not less than $15,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for border security programs in Paki-
stan, following consultation with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(F) Funds appropriated by title III of this
Act shall be made available for programs to
promote democracy in Pakistan.
(4) WITHHOLDING.—Of the funds appro-
priated under titles III and IV of this Act
that are made available for assistance for
Pakistan, $33,000,000 shall be withheld from
obligation until the Secretary of State re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that Dr. Shakil Afridi has been released from
prison and cleared of all charges relating to
the assistance provided to the United States
in locating Osama bin Laden.
(5) OVERSIGHT.—The Secretary of State
shall take all practicable steps to ensure
that mechanisms are in place for moni-
toring, oversight, and control of funds made
available by this subsection for assistance
for Pakistan: Provided, That the Secretary
shall inform the Committees on Appropria-
tions of such steps in a timely manner.
(d) SRI LANKA.—
(1) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.—
Funds appropriated under title III of this Act
shall be made available for assistance for Sri
Lanka for economic development and democ-
racy programs, particularly in areas recov-
ering from ethnic and religious conflict: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be made avail-
able for programs to assist in the identifica-
tion and resolution of cases of missing per-
sons.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for the central Gov-
ernment of Sri Lanka, except for funds made
available for humanitarian assistance and
victims of trauma, may be made available
only if the Secretary of State certifies and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the Government of Sri Lanka is—
(A) repealing laws that do not comply with
international standards for arrest and deten-
tion by security forces, and ensuring that
any successor legislation meets such stand-
ards;
(B) increasing accountability and trans-
parency in governance;
(C) investigating allegations of arbitrary
arrest and torture, and supporting a credible
justice mechanism in compliance with
United Nations Human Rights Council Reso-
lution (A/HCR/RES/30/1) of October 2015;
(D) returning military occupied lands in
former conflict zones to their rightful own-
ers or compensating those whose land was
confiscated without due process, and which
is in addition to steps taken during the pre-
vious calendar year;
(E) establishing a functioning office of
missing persons and assisting its investiga-
tions of cases of missing persons from Sri
Lanka’s internal armed conflicts with the
cooperation of the armed forces of Sri
Lanka; and
(F) substantially reducing the presence of
the armed forces in former conflict zones and
implementing a plan for restructuring the
armed forces to adopt a peacetime role that
contributes to post-conflict reconciliation
and regional security.
(3) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
Funds appropriated under title IV of this Act
that are available for assistance for Sri
Lanka shall be subject to the following con-
ditions—
(A) not to exceed $500,000 under the head-
ing ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’
may only be made available for programs to
support humanitarian and disaster response
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S424 January 22, 2019
preparedness and maritime security, includ-
ing professionalization and training for the
navy and coast guard; and
(B) funds under the heading ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ may only be made available for
training and equipment related to inter-
national peacekeeping operations and im-
provements to peacekeeping-related facili-
ties, and only if the Government of Sri
Lanka is taking effective steps to bring to
justice Sri Lankan peacekeeping troops who
have engaged in sexual exploitation and
abuse.
(e) REGIONAL PROGRAMS.—
(1) CROSS BORDER PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for Af-
ghanistan and Pakistan may be provided,
notwithstanding any other provision of law
that restricts assistance to foreign coun-
tries, for cross border stabilization and de-
velopment programs between Afghanistan
and Pakistan, or between either country and
the Central Asian countries.
(2) SECURITY AND JUSTICE PROGRAMS.—
Funds appropriated by this Act that are
made available for assistance for countries
in South and Central Asia shall be made
available to accelerate the recruitment and
enhance the retention and professionalism of
women in the judiciary, police, and other se-
curity forces.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
SEC. 7045. (a) CENTRAL AMERICA.—
(1) CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE FOR THE CEN-
TRAL GOVERNMENTS OF EL SALVADOR, GUATE-
MALA, AND HONDURAS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under titles III and IV
that are made available for assistance for
each of the central governments of El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras, 50 percent
may only be obligated after the Secretary of
State certifies and reports to the appropriate
congressional committees that such govern-
ment is—
(A) informing its citizens of the dangers of
the journey to the southwest border of the
United States;
(B) combating human smuggling and traf-
ficking;
(C) improving border security, including
preventing illegal migration, human smug-
gling and trafficking, and trafficking of il-
licit drugs and other contraband;
(D) cooperating with United States Gov-
ernment agencies and other governments in
the region to facilitate the return, repatri-
ation, and reintegration of illegal migrants
arriving at the southwest border of the
United States who do not qualify for asylum,
consistent with international law;
(E) working cooperatively with an autono-
mous, publicly accountable entity to provide
oversight of the Plan of the Alliance for
Prosperity in the Northern Triangle in Cen-
tral America (the Plan);
(F) combating corruption, including inves-
tigating and prosecuting current and former
government officials credibly alleged to be
corrupt;
(G) implementing reforms, policies, and
programs to increase transparency and
strengthen public institutions and the rule
of law;
(H) working with local communities, civil
society organizations (including indigenous
and other marginalized groups), and local
governments in the implementation and
evaluation of activities of the Plan;
(I) countering the activities of criminal
gangs, drug traffickers, and transnational
criminal organizations;
(J) investigating and prosecuting in the ci-
vilian justice system government personnel
who are credibly alleged to have violated
human rights;
(K) cooperating with commissions against
corruption and impunity and with regional
human rights entities;
(L) supporting programs to reduce poverty,
expand education and vocational training for
at-risk youth, create jobs, and promote equi-
table economic growth, particularly in areas
contributing to large numbers of migrants;
(M) creating a professional, accountable ci-
vilian police force and ending the role of the
military in internal policing;
(N) protecting the right of political opposi-
tion parties and other members of civil soci-
ety to operate without interference;
(O) implementing tax reforms; and
(P) resolving commercial disputes.
(2) DETERMINATIONS AND IMPACT ON ASSIST-
ANCE.—
(A) INSUFFICIENT PROGRESS.—The Sec-
retary of State shall periodically review the
progress of each of the central governments
of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in
meeting the requirements of paragraph (1):
Provided, That if the Secretary determines
and reports to the appropriate congressional
committees that sufficient progress has not
been made by such government in meeting
such requirements, the Secretary shall sus-
pend, in whole or in part, assistance for such
government for programs supporting such re-
quirement, and shall notify the appropriate
congressional committees in writing of such
action: Provided further, That the Secretary
may resume such assistance if the Secretary
determines and reports to such committees
that corrective measures have been taken by
such government.
(B) CHANGE IN NATIONAL GOVERNMENT.—Not
later than 90 days following a change of na-
tional government in El Salvador, Guate-
mala, or Honduras, the Secretary of State
shall determine whether or not such govern-
ment is meeting the requirements of para-
graph (1) and submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees detailing
the reasons for such determination: Provided,
That if the Secretary determines that such
government is not meeting such require-
ments, then the Secretary shall suspend, in
whole or in part, assistance for such country
until such time as such determination and
report can be made.
(C) REPROGRAMMING.—Assistance sus-
pended pursuant to subparagraphs (A) or (B)
may be reprogrammed if the Secretary of
State determines that corrective measures
have not been taken: Provided, That any such
reprogramming shall only be made available
for assistance for other countries in Latin
America and the Caribbean and shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of State
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 14 days prior to sub-
mitting any certification made pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) and any suspension or re-
programming made pursuant to subsection
(a)(2).
(4) EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.—
(A) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitation of para-
graph (1) shall not apply to funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for the International Commission against
Impunity in Guatemala, the Mission to Sup-
port the Fight against Corruption and Impu-
nity in Honduras, humanitarian assistance,
and food security programs.
(B) LIMITATIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for assistance for countries in Central Amer-
ica may be made available for direct govern-
ment-to-government assistance or for major
infrastructure projects.
(b) COLOMBIA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under titles III and IV, not less
than $418,253,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Colombia, including to support
the efforts of the Government of Colombia
to—
(A) conduct a unified campaign against
narcotics trafficking, organizations des-
ignated as foreign terrorist organizations
pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), and other
criminal or illegal armed groups: Provided,
That aircraft supported by funds made avail-
able by this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
may be used to transport personnel and sup-
plies involved in drug eradication and inter-
diction, including security for such activi-
ties, and to provide transport in support of
alternative development programs and inves-
tigations by civilian judicial authorities;
(B) enhance security and stability in Co-
lombia and the region;
(C) strengthen and expand governance, the
rule of law, and access to justice throughout
Colombia;
(D) promote economic and social develop-
ment, including by improving access to areas
impacted by conflict through demining pro-
grams;
(E) assist communities impacted by sig-
nificant refugee or migrant populations; and
(F) implement a peace agreement between
the Government of Colombia and illegal
armed groups, in accordance with constitu-
tional and legal requirements in Colombia.
(2) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
that are made available for assistance for
Colombia may be made available for pay-
ment of reparations to conflict victims or
compensation to demobilized combatants as-
sociated with a peace agreement between the
Government of Colombia and illegal armed
groups.
(3) COUNTERNARCOTICS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the headings ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’
and made available for counternarcotics as-
sistance for Colombia, 20 percent may be ob-
ligated only after the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that the Government of Colom-
bia has reduced overall illicit drug cultiva-
tion, production, and trafficking.
(4) HUMAN RIGHTS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘For-
eign Military Financing Program’’ and made
available for assistance for Colombia, 20 per-
cent may be obligated only after the Sec-
retary of State certifies and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that—
(A) the Special Jurisdiction for Peace and
other judicial authorities are taking effec-
tive steps to hold accountable perpetrators
of gross violations of human rights in a man-
ner consistent with international law, in-
cluding for command responsibility, and sen-
tence them to deprivation of liberty;
(B) the Government of Colombia is taking
effective steps to reduce attacks against
human rights defenders and other civil soci-
ety activists, trade unionists, and journal-
ists, and judicial authorities are prosecuting
those responsible for such attacks; and
(C) senior military officers responsible for
ordering, committing, and covering up cases
of false positives are being held accountable,
including removal from active duty if found
guilty through criminal or disciplinary pro-
ceedings.
(5) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations of para-
graphs (3) and (4) shall not apply to funds
made available for aviation instruction and
maintenance, and maritime and riverine se-
curity programs.
(c) HAITI.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S425
January 22, 2019
(1) CERTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘Development
Assistance’’ and ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’
that are made available for assistance for
Haiti may not be made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of Haiti un-
less the Secretary of State certifies and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is taking effective
steps, which are steps taken since the certifi-
cation and report submitted during the prior
year, if applicable, to—
(A) strengthen the rule of law in Haiti, in-
cluding by—
(i) selecting judges in a transparent man-
ner based on merit;
(ii) reducing pre-trial detention;
(iii) respecting the independence of the ju-
diciary; and
(iv) improving governance by imple-
menting reforms to increase transparency
and accountability, including through the
penal and criminal codes;
(B) combat corruption, including by imple-
menting the anti-corruption law enacted in
2014 and prosecuting corrupt officials;
(C) increase government revenues, includ-
ing by implementing tax reforms, and in-
creasing expenditures on public services; and
(D) resolve commercial disputes between
United States entities and the Government
of Haiti.
(2) HAITIAN COAST GUARD.—The Govern-
ment of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase
defense articles and services under the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for
the Coast Guard.
(d) VENEZUELA.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’, not less than $17,500,000 shall
be made available for programs to promote
democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela.
EUROPE AND EURASIA
SEC. 7046. (a) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) GEORGIA.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$127,025,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for Georgia.
(2) UKRAINE.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$445,700,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for Ukraine.
(b) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for assistance for a government of an Inde-
pendent State of the former Soviet Union if
such government directs any action in viola-
tion of the territorial integrity or national
sovereignty of any other Independent State
of the former Soviet Union, such as those
violations included in the Helsinki Final
Act: Provided, That except as otherwise pro-
vided in section 7047(a) of this Act, funds
may be made available without regard to the
restriction in this subsection if the President
determines that to do so is in the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided further, That prior to executing the au-
thority contained in the previous proviso,
the Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on how such
assistance supports the national security in-
terest of the United States.
(c) SECTION 907 OF THE FREEDOM SUPPORT
ACT.—Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support
Act (22 U.S.C. 5812 note) shall not apply to—
(1) activities to support democracy or as-
sistance under title V of the FREEDOM Sup-
port Act (22 U.S.C. 5851 et seq.) and section
1424 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass
Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2333) or
non-proliferation assistance;
(2) any assistance provided by the Trade
and Development Agency under section 661
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2421);
(3) any activity carried out by a member of
the United States and Foreign Commercial
Service while acting within his or her offi-
cial capacity;
(4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee,
or other assistance provided by the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation under title
IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
(5) any financing provided under the Ex-
port-Import Bank Act of 1945 (Public Law 79–
173); or
(6) humanitarian assistance.
(d) TURKEY.—
(1) TURKISH PRESIDENTIAL PROTECTION DI-
RECTORATE.—None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to facilitate or
support the sale of defense articles or defense
services to the Turkish Presidential Protec-
tion Directorate (TPPD) under chapter 2 of
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761
et seq.), unless the Secretary of State deter-
mines and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that members of the
TPPD that are named in the July 17, 2017 in-
dictment by the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and against whom charges
are pending, have returned to the United
States to stand trial in connection with the
offenses contained in such indictment or
have otherwise been brought to justice: Pro-
vided, That the limitation in this paragraph
shall not apply to the use of funds made
available by this Act for border security pur-
poses, for North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion or coalition operations, or to enhance
the protection of United States officials and
facilities in Turkey.
(2) RESTRICTION ON FUNDS.—
(A) Not later than November 1, 2019, but no
sooner than six months after enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of State, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall sub-
mit an update to the report required by sec-
tion 1282 of the John S. McCain National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019
(Public Law 115–232) regarding the purchase
by the Republic of Turkey of the S–400 mis-
sile defense system from the Russian Federa-
tion: Provided, That such report shall also in-
clude a detailed description of plans for the
imposition of sanctions, if appropriate, for
such purchase pursuant to section 231 of the
Countering Russian Influence in Europe and
Eurasia Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–44).
(B) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act and prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs may be made
available to deliver F–35 aircraft to the terri-
tory of the Republic of Turkey until the re-
port in subparagraph (A) is submitted to the
Congress.
COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE AND
AGGRESSION
SEC. 7047. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds appropriated by this Act may be made
available for assistance for the central Gov-
ernment of the Russian Federation.
(b) ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.—
(1) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for assistance for
the central government of a country that the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations has taken
affirmative steps intended to support or be
supportive of the Russian Federation annex-
ation of Crimea or other territory in
Ukraine: Provided, That except as otherwise
provided in subsection (a), the Secretary
may waive the restriction on assistance re-
quired by this paragraph if the Secretary de-
termines and reports to such Committees
that to do so is in the national interest of
the United States, and includes a justifica-
tion for such interest.
(2) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for—
(A) the implementation of any action or
policy that recognizes the sovereignty of the
Russian Federation over Crimea or other ter-
ritory in Ukraine;
(B) the facilitation, financing, or guar-
antee of United States Government invest-
ments in Crimea or other territory in
Ukraine under the control of Russian-backed
separatists, if such activity includes the par-
ticipation of Russian Government officials,
or other Russian owned or controlled finan-
cial entities; or
(C) assistance for Crimea or other territory
in Ukraine under the control of Russian-
backed separatists, if such assistance in-
cludes the participation of Russian Govern-
ment officials, or other Russian owned or
controlled financial entities.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States executive directors
of each international financial institution to
vote against any assistance by such institu-
tion (including any loan, credit, or guar-
antee) for any program that violates the sov-
ereignty or territorial integrity of Ukraine.
(4) The requirements and limitations of
this subsection shall cease to be in effect if
the Secretary of State determines and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the Government of Ukraine has reestab-
lished sovereignty over Crimea and other
territory in Ukraine under the control of
Russian-backed separatists.
(c) OCCUPATION OF THE GEORGIAN TERRI-
TORIES OF ABKHAZIA AND TSKHINVALI REGION/
SOUTH OSSETIA.—
(1) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for assistance for
the central government of a country that the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations has rec-
ognized the independence of, or has estab-
lished diplomatic relations with, the Russian
occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia
and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall publish on
the Department of State website a list of any
such central governments in a timely man-
ner: Provided further, That the Secretary
may waive the restriction on assistance re-
quired by this paragraph if the Secretary de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that to do so is in the na-
tional interest of the United States, and in-
cludes a justification for such interest.
(2) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available to support the
Russian occupation of the Georgian terri-
tories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/
South Ossetia.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States executive directors
of each international financial institution to
vote against any assistance by such institu-
tion (including any loan, credit, or guar-
antee) for any program that violates the sov-
ereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia.
(d) COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE
FUND.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Assistance for Europe,
Eurasia and Central Asia’’, ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
‘‘International Military Education and
Training’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’, not less than $275,000,000 shall be
made available to carry out the purposes of
the Countering Russian Influence Fund, as
authorized by section 254 of the Countering
Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act
of 2017 (Public Law 115–44; 22 U.S.C. 9543) and
notwithstanding the country limitation in
subsection (b) of such section, and programs
to enhance the capacity of law enforcement
and security forces in countries in Europe
and Eurasia and strengthen security co-
operation between such countries and the
United States and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, as appropriate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S426 January 22, 2019
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act and
made available for assistance for the Eastern
Partnership countries shall be made avail-
able to advance the implementation of Asso-
ciation Agreements and trade agreements
with the European Union, and to reduce
their vulnerability to external economic and
political pressure from the Russian Federa-
tion.
(e) DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be made available
to support democracy programs in the Rus-
sian Federation, including to promote Inter-
net freedom, and shall also be made avail-
able to support the democracy and rule of
law strategy required by section 7071(d) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113–
76).
UNITED NATIONS
SEC. 7048. (a) TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNT-
ABILITY.—
(1) RESTRICTIONS.—Of the funds appro-
priated under title I and under the heading
‘‘International Organizations and Programs’’
in title V of this Act that are available for
contributions to the United Nations (includ-
ing the Department of Peacekeeping Oper-
ations), any United Nations agency, or the
Organization of American States, 15 percent
may not be obligated for such organization,
department, or agency until the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the organiza-
tion, department, or agency is—
(A) posting on a publicly available website,
consistent with privacy regulations and due
process, regular financial and programmatic
audits of such organization, department, or
agency, and providing the United States
Government with necessary access to such
financial and performance audits;
(B) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures which reflect best
practices for the protection of whistle-
blowers from retaliation, including best
practices for—
(i) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosures;
(ii) legal burdens of proof;
(iii) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(iv) access to independent adjudicative
bodies, including external arbitration; and
(v) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation; and
(C) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures on the appropriate
use of travel funds, including restrictions on
first class and business class travel.
(2) WAIVER.—The restrictions imposed by
or pursuant to paragraph (1) may be waived
on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that such waiver is
necessary to avert or respond to a humani-
tarian crisis.
(b) RESTRICTIONS ON UNITED NATIONS DELE-
GATIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) RESTRICTIONS ON UNITED STATES DELEGA-
TIONS.—None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to pay expenses for any
United States delegation to any specialized
agency, body, or commission of the United
Nations if such agency, body, or commission
is chaired or presided over by a country, the
government of which the Secretary of State
has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1)
of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as
continued in effect pursuant to the Inter-
national Emergency Economic Powers Act
(50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), supports inter-
national terrorism.
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.—None
of the funds made available by this Act may
be used by the Secretary of State as a con-
tribution to any organization, agency, com-
mission, or program within the United Na-
tions system if such organization, agency,
commission, or program is chaired or pre-
sided over by a country the government of
which the Secretary of State has deter-
mined, for purposes of section 620A of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of
the Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1)
of the Export Administration Act of 1979, or
any other provision of law, is a government
that has repeatedly provided support for acts
of international terrorism.
(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the restriction in this subsection if the
Secretary determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that to do so
is important to the national interest of the
United States, including a description of the
national interest served.
(c) UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS COUN-
CIL.—None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available in support of the
United Nations Human Rights Council unless
the Secretary of State determines and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that participation in the Council is impor-
tant to the national interest of the United
States and that such Council is taking sig-
nificant steps to remove Israel as a perma-
nent agenda item and ensure integrity in the
election of members to such Council: Pro-
vided, That such report shall include a de-
scription of the national interest served and
the steps taken to remove Israel as a perma-
nent agenda item and ensure integrity in the
election of members to such Council: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of State
shall report to the Committees on Appro-
priations not later than September 30, 2019,
on the resolutions considered in the United
Nations Human Rights Council during the
previous 12 months, and on steps taken to re-
move Israel as a permanent agenda item and
ensure integrity in the election of members
to such Council.
(d) UNITED NATIONS RELIEF AND WORKS
AGENCY.—Prior to the initial obligation of
funds for the United Nations Relief and
Works Agency (UNRWA), the Secretary of
State shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations, in writing, on whether UNRWA
is—
(1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in
the West Bank, Gaza, and other fields of op-
eration to inspect UNRWA installations and
reporting any inappropriate use;
(2) acting promptly to address any staff or
beneficiary violation of its own policies (in-
cluding the policies on neutrality and impar-
tiality of employees) and the legal require-
ments under section 301(c) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961;
(3) implementing procedures to maintain
the neutrality of its facilities, including im-
plementing a no-weapons policy, and con-
ducting regular inspections of its installa-
tions, to ensure they are only used for hu-
manitarian or other appropriate purposes;
(4) taking necessary and appropriate meas-
ures to ensure it is operating in compliance
with the conditions of section 301(c) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and con-
tinuing regular reporting to the Department
of State on actions it has taken to ensure
conformance with such conditions;
(5) taking steps to ensure the content of all
educational materials currently taught in
UNRWA-administered schools and summer
camps is consistent with the values of
human rights, dignity, and tolerance and
does not induce incitement;
(6) not engaging in operations with finan-
cial institutions or related entities in viola-
tion of relevant United States law, and is
taking steps to improve the financial trans-
parency of the organization; and
(7) in compliance with the United Nations
Board of Auditors’ biennial audit require-
ments and is implementing in a timely fash-
ion the Board’s recommendations.
(e) PROHIBITION OF PAYMENTS TO UNITED
NATIONS MEMBERS.—None of the funds appro-
priated or made available pursuant to titles
III through VI of this Act for carrying out
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be
used to pay in whole or in part any assess-
ments, arrearages, or dues of any member of
the United Nations or, from funds appro-
priated by this Act to carry out chapter 1 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
the costs for participation of another coun-
try’s delegation at international conferences
held under the auspices of multilateral or
international organizations.
(f) CAPITAL PROJECTS.—Any operating plan
submitted pursuant to this Act for funds
made available under the heading ‘‘Contribu-
tions to International Organizations’’ shall
include information on capital projects, as
described under such heading in House Re-
port 115–253.
(g) REPORT.—Not later than 45 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations detailing the amount
of funds available for obligation or expendi-
ture in fiscal year 2019 for contributions to
any organization, department, agency, or
program within the United Nations system
or any international program that are with-
held from obligation or expenditure due to
any provision of law: Provided, That the Sec-
retary shall update such report each time ad-
ditional funds are withheld by operation of
any provision of law: Provided further, That
the reprogramming of any withheld funds
identified in such report, including updates
thereof, shall be subject to prior consulta-
tion with, and the regular notification proce-
dures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
(h) SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE IN
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds appropriated by
this Act shall be made available to imple-
ment section 301 of the Department of State
Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–323).
(2) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—The Secretary
of State should withhold assistance to any
unit of the security forces of a foreign coun-
try if the Secretary has credible information
that such unit has engaged in sexual exploi-
tation or abuse, including while serving in a
United Nations peacekeeping operation,
until the Secretary determines that the gov-
ernment of such country is taking effective
steps to hold the responsible members of
such unit accountable and to prevent future
incidents: Provided, That the Secretary shall
promptly notify the government of each
country subject to any withholding of assist-
ance pursuant to this paragraph, and shall
notify the appropriate congressional com-
mittees of such withholding not later than 10
days after a determination to withhold such
assistance is made: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall, to the maximum extent
practicable, assist such government in bring-
ing the responsible members of such unit to
justice.
(i) ADDITIONAL AVAILABILITY.—Subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations, funds appro-
priated by this Act which are returned or not
made available due to the implementation of
subsection (a), the second proviso under the
heading ‘‘Contributions for International
Peacekeeping Activities’’ in title I of this
Act, or section 307(a) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2227(a)), shall re-
main available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the require-
ment to withhold funds for programs in
Burma under section 307(a) of the Foreign
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S427
January 22, 2019
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to
funds appropriated by this Act.
(j) NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST WITH-
HOLDING.—
(1) WITHHOLDING.—The Secretary of State
shall withhold 5 percent of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Con-
tributions to International Organizations’’
for a specialized agency or other entity of
the United Nations if the Secretary, in con-
sultation with the United States Ambas-
sador to the United Nations, determines and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such agency or entity has taken an offi-
cial action that is against the national secu-
rity interest of the United States or an ally
of the United States, including Israel.
(2) RELEASE OF FUNDS.—The Secretary of
State, in consultation with the United
States Ambassador to the United Nations,
may release funds withheld pursuant to
paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that such agency or entity is taking
steps to address the action that resulted in
the withholding of such funds.
(3) REPROGRAMMING.—Should the Secretary
of State be unable to make a determination
pursuant to paragraph (2) regarding the re-
lease of withheld funds, such funds may be
reprogrammed for other purposes under the
heading ‘‘Contributions to International Or-
ganizations’’.
(4) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State, fol-
lowing consultation with the Committees on
Appropriations, may waive the requirements
of this subsection if the Secretary deter-
mines that to do so in the national interest.
(k) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, $25,000,000 shall
be transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under the heading ‘‘International
Organizations and Programs’’, of which
$23,000,000 shall be for a contribution to sup-
port the United Nations resident coordinator
system and $2,000,000 shall be for a contribu-
tion to the Montreal Protocol Multilateral
Fund.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND SECURITY
SEC. 7049. (a) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) COMMUNITY-BASED POLICE ASSISTANCE.—
Funds made available under titles III and IV
of this Act to carry out the provisions of
chapter 1 of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of
that Act, to enhance the effectiveness and
accountability of civilian police authority
through training and technical assistance in
human rights, the rule of law, anti-corrup-
tion, strategic planning, and through assist-
ance to foster civilian police roles that sup-
port democratic governance, including as-
sistance for programs to prevent conflict, re-
spond to disasters, address gender-based vio-
lence, and foster improved police relations
with the communities they serve.
(2) COMBAT CASUALTY CARE.—
(A) Consistent with the objectives of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms
Export Control Act, funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ shall be made available for
combat casualty training and equipment.
(B) The Secretary of State shall offer com-
bat casualty care training and equipment as
a component of any package of lethal assist-
ance funded by this Act with funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’: Provided, That the require-
ment of this subparagraph shall apply to a
country in conflict, unless the Secretary de-
termines that such country has in place, to
the maximum extent practicable, func-
tioning combat casualty care treatment and
equipment that meets or exceeds the stand-
ards recommended by the Committee on
Tactical Combat Casualty Care: Provided fur-
ther, That any such training and equipment
for combat casualty care shall be made
available through an open and transparent
process.
(3) COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS
FUND.—Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading Nonproliferation, Anti-ter-
rorism, Demining and Related Programs
shall be made available for the Counterter-
rorism Partnerships Fund for programs in
areas liberated from, under the influence of,
or adversely affected by, the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria or other terrorist organiza-
tions: Provided, That such areas shall include
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds
made available pursuant to this paragraph,
the Secretary of State shall take all prac-
ticable steps to ensure that mechanisms are
in place for monitoring, oversight, and con-
trol of such funds: Provided further, That
funds made available pursuant to this para-
graph shall be subject to prior consultation
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees, and the regular notification procedures
of the Committees on Appropriations.
(4) TRAINING RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITARIAN LAW.—The Secretary of State
shall offer training related to the require-
ments of international humanitarian law as
a component of any package of lethal assist-
ance funded by this Act with funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’: Provided, That the require-
ment of this paragraph shall not apply to a
country that is a member of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization (NATO), is a
major non-NATO ally designated by section
517(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
or is complying with international humani-
tarian law: Provided further, That any such
training shall be made available through an
open and transparent process.
(5) SECURITY FORCE PROFESSIONALIZATION.—
Funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’ and ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ shall be made available to in-
crease the capacity of foreign military and
law enforcement personnel to operate in ac-
cordance with appropriate standards relating
to human rights and the protection of civil-
ians in the manner specified under this sec-
tion in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act), following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That funds made available
pursuant to this paragraph shall only be
made available on an open and competitive
basis.
(b) AUTHORITIES.—
(1) RECONSTITUTING CIVILIAN POLICE AU-
THORITY.—In providing assistance with funds
appropriated by this Act under section
660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, support for a nation emerging from in-
stability may be deemed to mean support for
regional, district, municipal, or other sub-
national entity emerging from instability, as
well as a nation emerging from instability.
(2) DISARMAMENT, DEMOBILIZATION, AND RE-
INTEGRATION.—Section 7034(d) of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (di-
vision J of Public Law 113–235) shall continue
in effect during fiscal year 2019.
(3) INTERNATIONAL PRISON CONDITIONS.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
not less than $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for assistance to eliminate inhumane
conditions in foreign prisons and other de-
tention facilities, notwithstanding section
660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of State and the
USAID Administrator shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on the pro-
posed uses of such funds prior to obligation
and not later than 120 days after enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That such funds
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available by this Act for such purpose.
(4) EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCKPILE
AUTHORITY.—
(A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of
Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law
108–287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking
‘‘of this section’’ and all that follows
through the period at the end and inserting
‘‘of this section after September 30, 2020.’’.
(B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A))
is amended by striking ‘‘and 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019, and 2020’’.
(5) COMMERCIAL LEASING OF DEFENSE ARTI-
CLES.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, and subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations, the authority of section 23(a) of
the Arms Export Control Act may be used to
provide financing to Israel, Egypt, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and
major non-NATO allies for the procurement
by leasing (including leasing with an option
to purchase) of defense articles from United
States commercial suppliers, not including
Major Defense Equipment (other than heli-
copters and other types of aircraft having
possible civilian application), if the Presi-
dent determines that there are compelling
foreign policy or national security reasons
for those defense articles being provided by
commercial lease rather than by govern-
ment-to-government sale under such Act.
(6) SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND.—
Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated
pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act for the purposes of the Spe-
cial Defense Acquisition Fund (the Fund), to
remain available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That the provision
of defense articles and defense services to
foreign countries or international organiza-
tions from the Fund shall be subject to the
concurrence of the Secretary of State.
(7) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—For the purposes
of funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs that are made available for
assistance for units of foreign security
forces, the term ‘‘to the maximum extent
practicable’’ in section 620M(d)(7) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378d)
means that the identity of such units shall
be made publicly available unless the Sec-
retary of State, on a case-by-case basis, de-
termines and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that disclosure would
endanger the safety of human sources or re-
veal sensitive intelligence sources and meth-
ods, or that non-disclosure is in the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided, That any such determination shall in-
clude a detailed justification, and may be
submitted in classified form.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) CHILD SOLDIERS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act should not be used to support any
military training or operations that include
child soldiers.
(2) LANDMINES AND CLUSTER MUNITIONS.—
(A) LANDMINES.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, demining equipment
available to the United States Agency for
International Development and the Depart-
ment of State and used in support of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S428 January 22, 2019
clearance of landmines and unexploded ord-
nance for humanitarian purposes may be dis-
posed of on a grant basis in foreign coun-
tries, subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
(B) CLUSTER MUNITIONS.—No military as-
sistance shall be furnished for cluster muni-
tions, no defense export license for cluster
munitions may be issued, and no cluster mu-
nitions or cluster munitions technology
shall be sold or transferred, unless—
(i) the submunitions of the cluster muni-
tions, after arming, do not result in more
than 1 percent unexploded ordnance across
the range of intended operational environ-
ments, and the agreement applicable to the
assistance, transfer, or sale of such cluster
munitions or cluster munitions technology
specifies that the cluster munitions will only
be used against clearly defined military tar-
gets and will not be used where civilians are
known to be present or in areas normally in-
habited by civilians; or
(ii) such assistance, license, sale, or trans-
fer is for the purpose of demilitarizing or
permanently disposing of such cluster muni-
tions.
(3) CROWD CONTROL ITEMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act should not be used for
tear gas, small arms, light weapons, ammu-
nition, or other items for crowd control pur-
poses for foreign security forces that use ex-
cessive force to repress peaceful expression,
association, or assembly in countries that
the Secretary of State determines are un-
democratic or are undergoing democratic
transitions.
(d) REPORTS.—
(1) SECURITY ASSISTANCE REPORT.—Not
later than 120 days after enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations a report
on funds obligated and expended during fis-
cal year 2018, by country and purpose of as-
sistance, under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’, ‘‘International Military Edu-
cation and Training’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military
Financing Program’’.
(2) QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT.—Following
the submission of the quarterly report re-
quired by section 36 of Public Law 90–629 (22
U.S.C. 2776), the Secretary of State, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a status report that contains the
information described under the heading
‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’ in
House Report 115–829.
(3) VETTING REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees on foreign
assistance cases submitted for vetting for
purposes of section 620M of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 during the preceding fis-
cal year, including—
(i) the total number of cases submitted, ap-
proved, suspended, or rejected for human
rights reasons; and
(ii) for cases rejected, a description of the
steps taken to assist the foreign government
in taking effective measures to bring the re-
sponsible members of the security forces to
justice, in accordance with section 620M(c) of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(B) FORM.—The report required by this
paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may be accompanied by a classi-
fied annex.
(4) ANNUAL FOREIGN MILITARY TRAINING RE-
PORT.—For the purposes of implementing
section 656 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the term ‘‘military training provided to
foreign military personnel by the Depart-
ment of Defense and the Department of
State’’ shall be deemed to include all mili-
tary training provided by foreign govern-
ments with funds appropriated to the De-
partment of Defense or the Department of
State, except for training provided by the
government of a country designated by sec-
tion 517(b) of such Act as a major non-NATO
ally.
ARMS TRADE TREATY
SEC. 7050. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES
SEC. 7051. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of agencies or departments of the
United States Government who are stationed
in the United States, at any single inter-
national conference occurring outside the
United States, unless the Secretary of State
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
at least 5 days in advance that such attend-
ance is important to the national interest:
Provided, That for purposes of this section
the term ‘‘international conference’’ shall
mean a conference attended by representa-
tives of the United States Government and
of foreign governments, international orga-
nizations, or nongovernmental organiza-
tions.
AIRCRAFT TRANSFER, COORDINATION, AND USE
SEC. 7052. (a) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, aircraft procured with funds ap-
propriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’, ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’, ‘‘Andean
Counterdrug Initiative’’, and ‘‘Andean
Counterdrug Programs’’ may be used for any
other program and in any region.
(b) PROPERTY DISPOSAL.—The authority
provided in subsection (a) shall apply only
after the Secretary of State determines and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the equipment is no longer required to
meet programmatic purposes in the des-
ignated country or region: Provided, That
any such transfer shall be subject to prior
consultation with, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of, the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) AIRCRAFT COORDINATION.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—The uses of aircraft pur-
chased or leased by the Department of State
and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development with funds made
available in this Act or prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
shall be coordinated under the authority of
the appropriate Chief of Mission: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 7006(b) of this
Act, such aircraft may be used to transport,
on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis,
Federal and non-Federal personnel sup-
porting Department of State and USAID pro-
grams and activities: Provided further, That
official travel for other agencies for other
purposes may be supported on a reimburs-
able basis, or without reimbursement when
traveling on a space available basis: Provided
further, That funds received by the Depart-
ment of State in connection with the use of
aircraft owned, leased, or chartered by the
Department of State may be credited to the
Working Capital Fund of the Department
and shall be available for expenses related to
the purchase, lease, maintenance, char-
tering, or operation of such aircraft.
(2) SCOPE.—The requirement and authori-
ties of this subsection shall only apply to
aircraft, the primary purpose of which is the
transportation of personnel.
(d) AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS AND MAINTE-
NANCE.—To the maximum extent practicable,
the costs of operations and maintenance, in-
cluding fuel, of aircraft funded by this Act
shall be borne by the recipient country.
PARKING FINES AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES
OWED BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
SEC. 7053. The terms and conditions of sec-
tion 7055 of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall apply to this Act: Provided,
That the date ‘‘September 30, 2009’’ in sub-
section (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be
deemed to be ‘‘September 30, 2018’’.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
SEC. 7054. (a) EXTENSIONS.—The terms and
conditions of sections 7086(b) (1) and (2) and
7090(a) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall apply to this Act.
(b) REPAYMENT.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States
Executive Director of the International Mon-
etary Fund (IMF) to seek to ensure that any
loan will be repaid to the IMF before other
private or multilateral creditors.
PROHIBITION ON PUBLICITY OR PROPAGANDA
SEC. 7055. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall be used for pub-
licity or propaganda purposes within the
United States not authorized before the date
of the enactment of this Act by Congress:
Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 may be
made available to carry out the provisions of
section 316 of the International Security and
Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public
Law 96–533; 22 U.S.C. 2151a note).
DISABILITY PROGRAMS
SEC. 7056. (a) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ shall be made avail-
able for programs and activities adminis-
tered by the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to address the needs
and protect and promote the rights of people
with disabilities in developing countries, in-
cluding initiatives that focus on independent
living, economic self-sufficiency, advocacy,
education, employment, transportation,
sports, and integration of individuals with
disabilities, including for the cost of trans-
lation.
(b) MANAGEMENT, OVERSIGHT, AND TECH-
NICAL SUPPORT.—Of the funds made available
pursuant to this section, 5 percent may be
used for USAID for management, oversight,
and technical support.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT
SEC. 7057. (a) AUTHORITY.—Up to $93,000,000
of the funds made available in title III of this
Act pursuant to or to carry out the provi-
sions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961, including funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’, may be used by the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment to hire and employ individuals in
the United States and overseas on a limited
appointment basis pursuant to the authority
of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3948 and 3949).
(b) RESTRICTIONS.—
(1) The number of individuals hired in any
fiscal year pursuant to the authority con-
tained in subsection (a) may not exceed 175.
(2) The authority to hire individuals con-
tained in subsection (a) shall expire on Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
(c) CONDITIONS.—The authority of sub-
section (a) should only be used to the extent
that an equivalent number of positions that
are filled by personal services contractors or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S429
January 22, 2019
other non-direct hire employees of USAID,
who are compensated with funds appro-
priated to carry out part I of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, including funds appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, are
eliminated.
(d) PROGRAM ACCOUNT CHARGED.—The ac-
count charged for the cost of an individual
hired and employed under the authority of
this section shall be the account to which
the responsibilities of such individual pri-
marily relate: Provided, That funds made
available to carry out this section may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this Act in title II under the
heading ‘‘Operating Expenses’’.
(e) FOREIGN SERVICE LIMITED EXTEN-
SIONS.—Individuals hired and employed by
USAID, with funds made available in this
Act or prior Acts making appropriations for
the Department of State, foreign operations,
and related programs, pursuant to the au-
thority of section 309 of the Foreign Service
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3949), may be extended
for a period of up to 4 years notwithstanding
the limitation set forth in such section.
(f) DISASTER SURGE CAPACITY.—Funds ap-
propriated under title III of this Act to carry
out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, including funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and
Central Asia’’, may be used, in addition to
funds otherwise available for such purposes,
for the cost (including the support costs) of
individuals detailed to or employed by
USAID whose primary responsibility is to
carry out programs in response to natural
disasters, or man-made disasters subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(g) PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTORS.—
Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out
chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and
section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, and title II of the Food for Peace Act
(Public Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may
be used by USAID to employ up to 40 per-
sonal services contractors in the United
States, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, for the purpose of providing direct,
interim support for new or expanded over-
seas programs and activities managed by the
agency until permanent direct hire per-
sonnel are hired and trained: Provided, That
not more than 15 of such contractors shall be
assigned to any bureau or office: Provided
further, That such funds appropriated to
carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act
(Public Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may
be made available only for personal services
contractors assigned to the Office of Food for
Peace.
(h) SMALL BUSINESS.—In entering into mul-
tiple award indefinite-quantity contracts
with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID
may provide an exception to the fair oppor-
tunity process for placing task orders under
such contracts when the order is placed with
any category of small or small disadvan-
taged business.
(i) SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE LIMITED AP-
POINTMENTS.—Individuals hired pursuant to
the authority provided by section 7059(o) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111–
117) may be assigned to or support programs
in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made
available in this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs.
GLOBAL HEALTH ACTIVITIES
SEC. 7058. (a) IN GENERAL.—Funds appro-
priated by titles III and IV of this Act that
are made available for bilateral assistance
for child survival activities or disease pro-
grams including activities relating to re-
search on, and the prevention, treatment and
control of, HIV/AIDS may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
except for provisions under the heading
‘‘Global Health Programs’’ and the United
States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuber-
culosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711;
22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended: Provided,
That of the funds appropriated under title III
of this Act, not less than $575,000,000 should
be made available for family planning/repro-
ductive health, including in areas where pop-
ulation growth threatens biodiversity or en-
dangered species.
(b) GLOBAL FUND.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act that are available for a
contribution to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global
Fund), 10 percent should be withheld from
obligation until the Secretary of State de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that the Global Fund is—
(1) maintaining and implementing a policy
of transparency, including the authority of
the Global Fund Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public
website;
(2) providing sufficient resources to main-
tain an independent OIG that—
(A) reports directly to the Board of the
Global Fund;
(B) maintains a mandate to conduct thor-
ough investigations and programmatic au-
dits, free from undue interference; and
(C) compiles regular, publicly published
audits and investigations of financial, pro-
grammatic, and reporting aspects of the
Global Fund, its grantees, recipients, sub-re-
cipients, and Local Fund Agents;
(3) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures which reflect best
practices for the protection of whistle-
blowers from retaliation, including best
practices for—
(A) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosures;
(B) legal burdens of proof;
(C) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(D) access to independent adjudicative bod-
ies, including external arbitration; and
(E) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation:
Provided, That such withholding shall not be
in addition to funds that are withheld from
the Global Fund in fiscal year 2019 pursuant
to the application of any other provision
contained in this or any other Act.
(c) CONTAGIOUS INFECTIOUS DISEASE OUT-
BREAKS.—
(1) EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES.—If the Sec-
retary of State determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that an inter-
national infectious disease outbreak is sus-
tained, severe, and is spreading internation-
ally, or that it is in the national interest to
respond to a Public Health Emergency of
International Concern, funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘Global Health
Programs’’, ‘‘Development Assistance’’,
‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’, ‘‘Com-
plex Crises Fund’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, ‘‘Migra-
tion and Refugee Assistance’’, and ‘‘Millen-
nium Challenge Corporation’’ may be made
available to combat such infectious disease
or public health emergency, and may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under such headings for the pur-
poses of this paragraph.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available by this subsection
shall be subject to prior consultation with
the appropriate congressional committees,
and the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(d) REPURPOSED FUNDS.—
(1) USES.—Of the unobligated balances
available under the heading ‘‘Bilateral Eco-
nomic Assistance’’ in title IX of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (di-
vision J of Public Law 113–235)—
(A) $38,000,000 shall be for programs to ac-
celerate the capabilities of targeted coun-
tries to prevent, detect, and respond to infec-
tious disease outbreaks; and
(B) $2,000,000 shall be made available for
the Emergency Reserve Fund established
pursuant to section 7058(c)(1) of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (di-
vision J of Public Law 115–31) and shall be
made available under the same terms and
conditions of such section: Provided, That
the second proviso of such paragraph is
amended by striking ‘‘Secretary of State’’
and inserting in lieu thereof ‘‘Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development’’.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available by this subsection
shall be subject to prior consultation with,
and the regular notification procedures of,
the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) TRANSFER BETWEEN ACCOUNTS.—Funds
made available pursuant to this subsection
under the headings ‘‘Global Health Pro-
grams’’ and ‘‘International Disaster Assist-
ance’’ may be transferred to, and merged
with, funds made available under such head-
ings: Provided, That such transfer authority
is in addition to any other transfer authority
provided by law.
(4) CLARIFICATION.—Funds made available
pursuant to this subsection are in addition
to funds otherwise made available for such
purposes.
(5) DESIGNATION.—The amounts repurposed
under this subsection are designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 and shall be available only if the
President subsequently so designates all
such amounts and transmits such designa-
tions to the Congress.
GENDER EQUALITY
SEC. 7059. (a) GENDER EQUALITY.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act shall be made avail-
able to promote gender equality in United
States Government diplomatic and develop-
ment efforts by raising the status, increasing
the participation, and protecting the rights
of women and girls worldwide.
(b) WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by title III of this Act, not less
than $50,000,000 shall be made available for
programs specifically designed to increase
leadership opportunities for women in coun-
tries where women and girls suffer discrimi-
nation due to law, policy, or practice, by
strengthening protections for women’s polit-
ical status, expanding women’s participation
in political parties and elections, and in-
creasing women’s opportunities for leader-
ship positions in the public and private sec-
tors at the local, provincial, and national
levels.
(c) GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE.—
(1)(A) Of the funds appropriated under ti-
tles III and IV of this Act, not less than
$150,000,000 shall be made available to imple-
ment a multi-year strategy to prevent and
respond to gender-based violence in coun-
tries where it is common in conflict and non-
conflict settings.
(B) Funds appropriated under titles III and
IV of this Act that are available to train for-
eign police, judicial, and military personnel,
including for international peacekeeping op-
erations, shall address, where appropriate,
prevention and response to gender-based vio-
lence and trafficking in persons, and shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S430 January 22, 2019
promote the integration of women into the
police and other security forces.
(2) Department of State and United States
Agency for International Development gen-
der programs shall incorporate coordinated
efforts to combat a variety of forms of gen-
der-based violence, including child marriage,
rape, female genital cutting and mutilation,
and domestic violence, among other forms of
gender-based violence in conflict and non-
conflict settings.
(d) WOMEN, PEACE, AND SECURITY.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’, and ‘‘International Nar-
cotics Control and Law Enforcement’’ should
be made available to support a multi-year
strategy to expand, and improve coordina-
tion of, United States Government efforts to
empower women as equal partners in conflict
prevention, peace building, transitional
processes, and reconstruction efforts in
countries affected by conflict or in political
transition, and to ensure the equitable provi-
sion of relief and recovery assistance to
women and girls.
(e) WOMEN AND GIRLS AT RISK FROM EXTRE-
MISM.—Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $15,000,000 shall be made
available to support women and girls who
are at risk from extremism and conflict, and
for the activities described in section
7059(e)(1) of the Department of State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 2018 (division K of Public
Law 115–141): Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able by this Act for such purposes, and shall
be made available following consultation
with, and the regular notification procedures
of, the Committees on Appropriations.
SECTOR ALLOCATIONS
SEC. 7060. (a) BASIC EDUCATION AND HIGHER
EDUCATION.—
(1) BASIC EDUCATION.—
(A) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act, not less than $800,000,000 shall
be made available for assistance for basic
education, and such funds may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law that restricts assistance to for-
eign countries: Provided, That such funds
shall also be used for secondary education
activities: Provided further, That notifica-
tions submitted for basic education pro-
grams should, as applicable, describe activi-
ties conducted in support of non-state
schools: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, following consulta-
tion with the Committees on Appropriations,
may reprogram such funds between coun-
tries.
(B) Not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, the USAID Administrator shall
report to the Committees on Appropriations
on the status of cumulative unobligated bal-
ances and obligated, but unexpended, bal-
ances in each country where USAID provides
basic education assistance and such report
shall also include details on the types of con-
tracts and grants provided and the goals and
objectives of such assistance: Provided, That
the USAID Administrator shall update such
report on a quarterly basis until September
30, 2020: Provided further, That if the USAID
Administrator determines that any unobli-
gated balances of funds specifically des-
ignated for assistance for basic education in
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs are in excess of the absorp-
tive capacity of recipient countries, such
funds may be made available for other pro-
grams authorized under chapter 1 of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwith-
standing such funding designation: Provided
further, That the authority of the previous
proviso shall be subject to prior consultation
with, and the regular notification procedures
of, the Committees on Appropriations.
(C) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act for assistance for basic edu-
cation programs, not less than $90,000,000
shall be made available for a contribution to
multilateral partnerships that support edu-
cation.
(2) HIGHER EDUCATION.—Of the funds appro-
priated by title III of this Act, not less than
$235,000,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for higher education: Provided, That
such funds may be made available notwith-
standing any other provision of law that re-
stricts assistance to foreign countries, and
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That of such amount,
not less than $35,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for human and institutional capacity
building partnerships between higher edu-
cation institutions in the United States and
developing countries, of which not less than
$15,000,000 shall be for new partnerships: Pro-
vided further, That not later than 45 days
after enactment of this Act, the USAID Ad-
ministrator shall consult with the Commit-
tees on Appropriations on the proposed uses
of funds for such partnerships.
(b) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Development Assistance’’, not less than
$12,000,000 shall be made available for cooper-
ative development programs of USAID, and
not less than $30,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for the American Schools and Hospitals
Abroad program: Provided, That any sub-
stantive modifications from the prior fiscal
year to the evaluation methodology or cri-
teria for selecting grantees for the American
Schools and Hospitals Abroad program shall
be subject to prior consultation with the
Committees on Appropriations.
(c) ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS.—
(1) AUTHORITY AND NOTIFICATION.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of sections 103
through 106, and chapter 4 of part II, of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used,
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
except for the provisions of this subsection,
to support environment programs.
(B) Funds made available pursuant to this
subsection shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(C) None of the funds in this Act are appro-
priated or otherwise made available for a
contribution, grant, or any other payment
for the Green Climate Fund.
(2) CONSERVATION PROGRAMS AND LIMITA-
TIONS.—
(A) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act, not less than $285,000,000 shall
be made available for biodiversity conserva-
tion programs.
(B) Not less than $90,664,000 of the funds ap-
propriated under titles III and IV of this Act
shall be made available to combat the
transnational threat of wildlife poaching and
trafficking.
(C) None of the funds appropriated under
title IV of this Act may be made available
for training or other assistance for any mili-
tary unit or personnel that the Secretary of
State determines has been credibly alleged
to have participated in wildlife poaching or
trafficking, unless the Secretary reports to
the appropriate congressional committees
that to do so is in the national security in-
terest of the United States.
(D) Funds appropriated by this Act for bio-
diversity programs shall not be used to sup-
port the expansion of industrial scale logging
or other industrial scale extractive activity
into areas that were primary/intact tropical
forests as of December 30, 2013, and the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall instruct the
United States executive directors of each
international financial institutions (IFI) to
vote against any financing of any such activ-
ity.
(3) LARGE DAMS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each IFI that it is the pol-
icy of the United States to vote in relation
to any loan, grant, strategy, or policy of
such institution to support the construction
of any large dam consistent with the criteria
set forth in Senate Report 114–79, while also
considering whether the project involves im-
portant foreign policy objectives.
(4) SUSTAINABLE LANDSCAPES.—Of the funds
appropriated under title III of this Act, not
less than $125,000,000 shall be made available
for sustainable landscapes programs.
(d) FOOD SECURITY AND AGRICULTURAL DE-
VELOPMENT.—Of the funds appropriated by
title III of this Act, not less than
$1,000,600,000 shall be made available for food
security and agricultural development pro-
grams to carry out the purposes of the Glob-
al Food Security Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–
195), of which not less than $315,960,000 shall
be made available for the Bureau for Food
Security, USAID, including not less than
$55,000,000 for the Feed the Future Innova-
tion Labs: Provided, That funds may be made
available for a contribution as authorized by
section 3202 of the Food, Conservation, and
Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–246), as
amended by section 3206 of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
(e) MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISES.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act, not less
than $265,000,000 shall be made available to
support the development of, and access to fi-
nancing for, micro- and small enterprises
that benefit the poor, especially women.
(f) PROGRAMS TO COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN
PERSONS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the headings ‘‘Development As-
sistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, and ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’, not less than
$67,000,000 shall be made available for activi-
ties to combat trafficking in persons inter-
nationally, of which not less than $45,000,000
shall be from funds made available under the
heading ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’: Provided, That funds
appropriated by this Act that are made
available for programs to end modern slav-
ery shall be in addition to funds made avail-
able by this subsection to combat trafficking
in persons.
(g) RECONCILIATION PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’ shall be made available to
support people-to-people reconciliation pro-
grams which bring together individuals of
different ethnic, religious, and political
backgrounds from areas of civil strife and
war: Provided, That the USAID Adminis-
trator shall consult with the Committees on
Appropriations, prior to the initial obliga-
tion of funds, on the uses of such funds, and
such funds shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided further, That to the
maximum extent practicable, such funds
shall be matched by sources other than the
United States Government: Provided further,
That such funds shall be administered by the
Office of Conflict Management and Mitiga-
tion, USAID.
(h) WATER AND SANITATION.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act, not less than
$435,000,000 shall be made available for water
supply and sanitation projects pursuant to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S431
January 22, 2019
section 136 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, of which not less than $195,000,000 shall
be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa, and
of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be
made available to support initiatives by
local communities in developing countries to
build and maintain safe latrines.
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
SEC. 7061. (a) NOTIFICATION.—None of the
funds made available under titles III through
VI of this Act may be made available for En-
terprise Funds unless the appropriate con-
gressional committees are notified at least
15 days in advance.
(b) DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS PLAN.—Prior
to the distribution of any assets resulting
from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding
up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole or in
part, the President shall submit to the ap-
propriate congressional committees a plan
for the distribution of the assets of the En-
terprise Fund.
(c) TRANSITION OR OPERATING PLAN.—Prior
to a transition to and operation of any pri-
vate equity fund or other parallel invest-
ment fund under an existing Enterprise
Fund, the President shall submit such tran-
sition or operating plan to the appropriate
congressional committees.
IMPACT ON JOBS IN THE UNITED STATES
SEC. 7062. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under titles III
through VI of this Act may be obligated or
expended to provide—
(1) any financial incentive to a business en-
terprise currently located in the United
States for the purpose of inducing such an
enterprise to relocate outside the United
States if such incentive or inducement is
likely to reduce the number of employees of
such business enterprise in the United States
because United States production is being re-
placed by such enterprise outside the United
States;
(2) assistance for any program, project, or
activity that contributes to the violation of
internationally recognized workers’ rights,
as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act
of 1974, of workers in the recipient country,
including any designated zone or area in that
country: Provided, That the application of
section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should
be commensurate with the level of develop-
ment of the recipient country and sector,
and shall not preclude assistance for the in-
formal sector in such country, micro and
small-scale enterprise, and smallholder agri-
culture;
(3) any assistance to an entity outside the
United States if such assistance is for the
purpose of directly relocating or transferring
jobs from the United States to other coun-
tries and adversely impacts the labor force
in the United States; or
(4) for the enforcement of any rule, regula-
tion, policy, or guidelines implemented pur-
suant to—
(A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111–
117);
(B) the modification proposed by the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation in No-
vember 2013 to the Corporation’s Environ-
mental and Social Policy Statement relating
to coal; or
(C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High
Carbon Intensity Projects approved by the
Export-Import Bank of the United States on
December 12, 2013,
when enforcement of such rule, regulation,
policy, or guidelines would prohibit, or have
the effect of prohibiting, any coal-fired or
other power-generation project the purpose
of which is to: (i) provide affordable elec-
tricity in International Development Asso-
ciation (IDA)-eligible countries and IDA-
blend countries; and (ii) increase exports of
goods and services from the United States or
prevent the loss of jobs from the United
States.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
SEC. 7063. (a) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—When-
ever the President determines that it is in
furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, up to a total of
$20,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
title III of this Act may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated by this
Act for the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration Program Account, to be subject to
the terms and conditions of that account:
Provided, That such funds shall not be avail-
able for administrative expenses of the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation: Pro-
vided further, That designated funding levels
in this Act shall not be transferred pursuant
to this section: Provided further, That the ex-
ercise of such authority shall be subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(b) AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding section
235(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the authority of subsections (a) through
(c) of section 234 of such Act shall remain in
effect until September 30, 2019.
INSPECTORS GENERAL
SEC. 7064. (a) PROHIBITION ON USE OF
FUNDS.—None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to deny an Inspector
General funded under this Act timely access
to any records, documents, or other mate-
rials available to the department or agency
of the United States Government over which
such Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or impede the ac-
cess of such Inspector General to such
records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to such In-
spector General and expressly limits the
right of access of such Inspector General.
(b) TIMELY ACCESS.—A department or agen-
cy of the United States Government covered
by this section shall provide its Inspector
General access to all records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) COMPLIANCE.—Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall ensure compli-
ance with statutory limitations on disclo-
sure relevant to the information provided by
the department or agency over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) REPORT.—Each Inspector General cov-
ered by this section shall report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations within 5 calendar
days of any failure by any department or
agency of the United States Government to
provide its Inspector General access to all re-
quested records, documents, and other mate-
rials.
GLOBAL INTERNET FREEDOM
SEC. 7065. (a) FUNDING.—Of the funds avail-
able for obligation during fiscal year 2019
under the headings ‘‘International Broad-
casting Operations’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, not
less than $60,500,000 shall be made available
for programs to promote Internet freedom
globally: Provided, That such programs shall
be prioritized for countries whose govern-
ments restrict freedom of expression on the
Internet, and that are important to the na-
tional interest of the United States: Provided
further, That funds made available pursuant
to this section shall be matched, to the max-
imum extent practicable, by sources other
than the United States Government, includ-
ing from the private sector.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’,
‘‘Democracy Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance for Eu-
rope, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ that are
made available pursuant to subsection (a)
shall be—
(A) coordinated with other democracy pro-
grams funded by this Act under such head-
ings, and shall be incorporated into country
assistance and democracy promotion strate-
gies, as appropriate;
(B) for programs to implement the May
2011, International Strategy for Cyberspace;
the Department of State International
Cyberspace Policy Strategy required by sec-
tion 402 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (di-
vision N of Public Law 114–113); and the com-
prehensive strategy to promote Internet
freedom and access to information in Iran, as
required by section 414 of the Iran Threat
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of
2012 (22 U.S.C. 8754);
(C) made available for programs that sup-
port the efforts of civil society to counter
the development of repressive Internet-re-
lated laws and regulations, including coun-
tering threats to Internet freedom at inter-
national organizations; to combat violence
against bloggers and other users; and to en-
hance digital security training and capacity
building for democracy activists;
(D) made available for research of key
threats to Internet freedom; the continued
development of technologies that provide or
enhance access to the Internet, including cir-
cumvention tools that bypass Internet
blocking, filtering, and other censorship
techniques used by authoritarian govern-
ments; and maintenance of the technological
advantage of the United States Government
over such censorship techniques: Provided,
That the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the
Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG),
shall coordinate any such research and de-
velopment programs with other relevant
United States Government departments and
agencies in order to share information, tech-
nologies, and best practices, and to assess
the effectiveness of such technologies; and
(E) made available only after the Assistant
Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State, concurs
that such funds are allocated consistent
with—
(i) the strategies referenced in subpara-
graph (B) of this paragraph;
(ii) best practices regarding security for,
and oversight of, Internet freedom programs;
and
(iii) sufficient resources and support for
the development and maintenance of anti-
censorship technology and tools.
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘International Broadcasting Op-
erations’’ that are made available pursuant
to subsection (a) shall be—
(A) made available only for tools and tech-
niques to securely develop and distribute
BBG digital content; facilitate audience ac-
cess to such content on websites that are
censored; coordinate the distribution of BBG
digital content to targeted regional audi-
ences; and to promote and distribute such
tools and techniques, including digital secu-
rity techniques;
(B) coordinated with programs funded by
this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Broadcasting Operations’’, and shall be in-
corporated into country broadcasting strate-
gies, as appropriate;
(C) coordinated by the BBG CEO to provide
Internet circumvention tools and techniques
for audiences in countries that are strategic
priorities for the BBG and in a manner con-
sistent with the BBG Internet freedom strat-
egy; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S432 January 22, 2019
(D) made available for the research and de-
velopment of new tools or techniques author-
ized in paragraph (A) only after the BBG
CEO, in consultation with the Secretary of
State and other relevant United States Gov-
ernment departments and agencies, evalu-
ates the risks and benefits of such new tools
or techniques, and establishes safeguards to
minimize the use of such new tools or tech-
niques for illicit purposes.
(c) COORDINATION AND SPEND PLANS.—After
consultation among the relevant agency
heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned
activities, but not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State and the BBG CEO shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations spend plans
for funds made available by this Act for pro-
grams to promote Internet freedom globally,
which shall include a description of safe-
guards established by relevant agencies to
ensure that such programs are not used for
illicit purposes: Provided, That the Depart-
ment of State spend plan shall include fund-
ing for all such programs for all relevant De-
partment of State and the United States
Agency for International Development of-
fices and bureaus.
(d) SECURITY AUDITS.—Funds made avail-
able pursuant to this section to promote
Internet freedom globally may only be made
available to support technologies that under-
go comprehensive security audits conducted
by the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State to ensure
that such technology is secure and has not
been compromised in a manner detrimental
to the interest of the United States or to in-
dividuals and organizations benefiting from
programs supported by such funds: Provided,
That the security auditing procedures used
by such Bureau shall be reviewed and up-
dated periodically to reflect current industry
security standards.
(e) SURGE.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, up to $2,500,000 may be made
available to surge Internet freedom pro-
grams in closed societies if the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the appro-
priate congressional committees that such
use of funds is in the national interest: Pro-
vided, That such funds are in addition to
amounts made available for such purposes:
Provided further, That such funds may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘International Broadcasting Operations’’ fol-
lowing consultation with, and the regular
notification procedures of, the Committees
on Appropriations.
MULTI-YEAR PLEDGES
SEC. 7066. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to make any pledge
for future year funding for any multilateral
or bilateral program funded in titles III
through VI of this Act unless such pledge
was—
(1) previously justified, including the pro-
jected future year costs, in a congressional
budget justification;
(2) included in an Act making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs or pre-
viously authorized by an Act of Congress;
(3) notified in accordance with the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations, including the projected
future year costs; or
(4) the subject of prior consultation with
the Committees on Appropriations and such
consultation was conducted at least 7 days in
advance of the pledge.
TORTURE AND OTHER CRUEL, INHUMAN, OR
DEGRADING TREATMENT OR PUNISHMENT
SEC. 7067. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds made available by this Act may be
used to support or justify the use of torture
and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading
treatment or punishment by any official or
contract employee of the United States Gov-
ernment.
(b) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available, notwithstanding section 660 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations, for assistance to eliminate torture
and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading
treatment or punishment by foreign police,
military or other security forces in countries
receiving assistance from funds appropriated
by this Act.
EXTRADITION
SEC. 7068. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds appropriated in this Act may be used
to provide assistance (other than funds pro-
vided under the headings ‘‘International Dis-
aster Assistance’’, ‘‘Complex Crises Fund’’,
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’, ‘‘Migration and Refugee As-
sistance’’, ‘‘United States Emergency Ref-
ugee and Migration Assistance Fund’’, and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Assistance’’) for the central gov-
ernment of a country which has notified the
Department of State of its refusal to extra-
dite to the United States any individual in-
dicted for a criminal offense for which the
maximum penalty is life imprisonment with-
out the possibility of parole or for killing a
law enforcement officer, as specified in a
United States extradition request.
(b) CLARIFICATION.—Subsection (a) shall
only apply to the central government of a
country with which the United States main-
tains diplomatic relations and with which
the United States has an extradition treaty
and the government of that country is in
violation of the terms and conditions of the
treaty.
(c) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the restriction in subsection (a) on a
case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies
to the Committees on Appropriations that
such waiver is important to the national in-
terest of the United States.
WAR CRIMES TRIBUNALS
SEC. 7069. If the President determines that
doing so will contribute to a just resolution
of charges regarding genocide or other viola-
tions of international humanitarian law, the
President may direct a drawdown pursuant
to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities
and services for the United Nations War
Crimes Tribunal established with regard to
the former Yugoslavia by the United Nations
Security Council or such other tribunals or
commissions as the Council may establish or
authorize to deal with such violations, with-
out regard to the ceiling limitation con-
tained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided,
That the determination required under this
section shall be in lieu of any determinations
otherwise required under section 552(c): Pro-
vided further, That funds made available pur-
suant to this section shall be made available
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
BUDGET DOCUMENTS
SEC. 7070. (a) OPERATING PLANS.—Not later
than 45 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, each department, agency, or orga-
nization funded in titles I, II, and VI of this
Act, and the Department of the Treasury and
Independent Agencies funded in title III of
this Act, including the Inter-American Foun-
dation and the United States African Devel-
opment Foundation, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations an operating
plan for funds appropriated to such depart-
ment, agency, or organization in such titles
of this Act, or funds otherwise available for
obligation in fiscal year 2019, that provides
details of the uses of such funds at the pro-
gram, project, and activity level: Provided,
That such plans shall include, as applicable,
a comparison between the congressional
budget justification funding levels, the most
recent congressional directives or approved
funding levels, and the funding levels pro-
posed by the department or agency; and a
clear, concise, and informative description/
justification: Provided further, That if such
department, agency, or organization receives
an additional amount under the same head-
ing in title VIII of this Act, operating plans
required by this subsection shall include con-
solidated information on all such funds: Pro-
vided further, That operating plans that in-
clude changes in levels of funding for pro-
grams, projects, and activities specified in
the congressional budget justification, in
this Act, or amounts specifically designated
in the respective tables included in the ex-
planatory statement described in section 4
(in the matter preceding division A of this
consolidated Act), as applicable, shall be
subject to the notification and reprogram-
ming requirements of section 7015 of this
Act.
(b) SPEND PLANS.—
(1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds
but not later than 120 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State or Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, as appropriate,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a spend plan for funds made avail-
able by this Act, for—
(A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Leb-
anon, Pakistan, the West Bank and Gaza, Co-
lombia, and countries in Central America;
(B) assistance made available pursuant to
section 7047(d) of this Act to counter Russian
influence and aggression, except that such
plan shall be on a country-by-country basis;
(C) assistance made available pursuant to
section 7059 of this Act;
(D) the Indo-Pacific Strategy;
(E) democracy programs, Power Africa,
programs to support section 7071(a) of this
Act, and sectors enumerated in subsections
(a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of section 7060
of this Act; and
(F) funds provided under the heading
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’ for International Organized
Crime and for Cybercrime and Intellectual
Property Rights: Provided, That the spend
plans shall include bilateral and global pro-
grams funded under such heading along with
a brief description of the activities planned
for each country.
(2) Not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a detailed spend plan for funds
made available by this Act under the head-
ing ‘‘Department of the Treasury, Inter-
national Affairs Technical Assistance’’ in
title III.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), up to 10
percent of the funds contained in a spend
plan required by this subsection may be obli-
gated prior to the submission of such spend
plan if the Secretary of State or the USAID
Administrator, as appropriate, determines
that the obligation of such funds is nec-
essary to avoid significant programmatic
disruption: Provided, That not less than
seven days prior to such obligation, the Sec-
retary or Administrator, as appropriate,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations on the justification for such obliga-
tion and the proposed uses of such funds.
(c) SPENDING REPORT.—Not later than 45
days after enactment of this Act, the USAID
Administrator shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations a detailed report on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S433
January 22, 2019
spending of funds made available during fis-
cal year 2018 under the heading ‘‘Develop-
ment Credit Authority’’.
(d) CLARIFICATION.—The spend plans ref-
erenced in subsection (b) shall not be consid-
ered as meeting the notification require-
ments in this Act or under section 634A of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(e) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET JUSTIFICA-
TION.—
(1) The congressional budget justification
for Department of State operations and for-
eign operations shall be provided to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations concurrent with
the date of submission of the President’s
budget for fiscal year 2020: Provided, That the
appendices for such justification shall be
provided to the Committees on Appropria-
tions not later than 10 calendar days there-
after.
(2) The Secretary of State and the USAID
Administrator shall include in the congres-
sional budget justification a detailed jus-
tification for multi-year availability for any
funds requested under the headings ‘‘Diplo-
matic Programs’’ and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’.
STABILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT IN REGIONS
IMPACTED BY EXTREMISM AND CONFLICT
SEC. 7071. (a) COUNTERING FOREIGN FIGHT-
ERS AND EXTREMIST ORGANIZATIONS.—Funds
appropriated under titles III and IV of this
Act shall be made available for programs and
activities to counter and defeat violent ex-
tremism and foreign fighters abroad, con-
sistent with the strategy required by section
7073(a)(1) of the Department of State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public
Law 115–31): Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall ensure such programs are coordi-
nated with and complement the efforts of
other United States Government agencies
and international partners, and that infor-
mation gained through the conduct of such
programs is shared in a timely manner with
relevant departments and agencies of the
United States Government, other inter-
national partners, and the appropriate con-
gressional committees, as appropriate.
(b) RELIEF AND RECOVERY FUND.—
(1) FUNDS AND TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’, ‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism,
Demining and Related Programs’’, ‘‘Peace-
keeping Operations’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military
Financing Program’’, not less than
$200,000,000 shall be made available for the
Relief and Recovery Fund for assistance for
areas liberated or at risk from, or under the
control of, the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria, other terrorist organizations, or vio-
lent extremist organizations, including for
stabilization assistance for vulnerable ethnic
and religious minority communities affected
by conflict: Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes and to amounts spe-
cifically designated in this Act or in the ex-
planatory statement described in section 4
(in the matter preceding division A of this
consolidated Act) for assistance for coun-
tries: Provided further, That such funds ap-
propriated under such headings may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under such headings: Provided fur-
ther, That such transfer authority is in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
by this Act or any other Act, and is subject
to the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(2) TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’ that are made available for
the Relief and Recovery Fund, not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to promote accountability in Iraq and
Syria for genocide, crimes against humanity,
and war crimes, which shall be in addition to
any other funds made available by this Act
for such purposes: Provided, That such pro-
grams shall include components to develop
local investigative and judicial skills, and to
collect and preserve evidence and maintain
the chain of custody of evidence, including
for use in prosecutions: Provided further,
That such funds shall be administered by the
Special Coordinator for the Office of Global
Criminal Justice, Department of State: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available by
this paragraph shall only be made available
on an open and competitive basis.
(3) FUNDS FOR JORDAN AND TUNISIA.—Of the
funds appropriated in prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
that are made available for the Relief and
Recovery Fund, not less than the following
amounts shall be made available—
(A) $50,000,000 for assistance for Jordan;
and
(B) $50,000,000 for assistance for Tunisia:
Provided, That such funds are in addition to
amounts otherwise made available by this
Act for such countries.
(c) PREVENTION OF FAILED STATES THROUGH
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams that are made available for the Relief
and Recovery Fund, up to $10,000,000 shall be
made available to implement the program
described under this section in the explana-
tory statement described in section 4 (in the
matter preceding division A of this consoli-
dated Act), which shall be apportioned to
USAID not later than 90 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided, That such funds
shall be in addition to funds made available
for bilateral assistance for such countries,
and shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That in addition to funds
otherwise made available for such purposes,
up to $750,000 of the funds made available by
this paragraph may be used by USAID for ad-
ministrative expenses related to the design
and implementation of such program.
(d) COUNTER VIOLENT EXTREMISM IN ASIA.—
Of the funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not
less than $2,500,000 shall be made available
for programs to counter violent extremism
in Asia, including within the Buddhist com-
munity: Provided, That such funds shall be
administered by the Mission Director of the
Regional Development Mission for Asia,
USAID: Provided further, That such funds are
in addition to funds otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes.
(e) FRAGILE STATES AND EXTREMISM.—
Funds appropriated by this Act shall be
made available for the purposes of section
7080 of the Department of State, Foreign Op-
erations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31), subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(f) GLOBAL CONCESSIONAL FINANCING FACIL-
ITY.—Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may
be made available for the Global
Concessional Financing Facility of the
World Bank to provide financing to support
refugees and host communities: Provided,
That such funds shall be in addition to funds
made available for bilateral assistance in the
report required by section 653(a) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be
made available subject to prior consultation
with the Committees on Appropriations.
UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND
SEC. 7072. (a) CONTRIBUTION.—Of the funds
made available under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Organizations and Programs’’ in
this Act for fiscal year 2019, $32,500,000 shall
be made available for the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA).
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act for UNFPA, that are not
made available for UNFPA because of the op-
eration of any provision of law, shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Global Health Programs’’
account and shall be made available for fam-
ily planning, maternal, and reproductive
health activities, subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(c) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS IN
CHINA.—None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used by UNFPA for a coun-
try program in the People’s Republic of
China.
(d) CONDITIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS.—Funds made available by this Act
for UNFPA may not be made available un-
less—
(1) UNFPA maintains funds made available
by this Act in an account separate from
other accounts of UNFPA and does not com-
mingle such funds with other sums; and
(2) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS AND DOLLAR-FOR-
DOLLAR WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—
(1) Not later than 4 months after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations indicating the
amount of funds that UNFPA is budgeting
for the year in which the report is submitted
for a country program in the People’s Repub-
lic of China.
(2) If a report under paragraph (1) indicates
that UNFPA plans to spend funds for a coun-
try program in the People’s Republic of
China in the year covered by the report, then
the amount of such funds UNFPA plans to
spend in the People’s Republic of China shall
be deducted from the funds made available
to UNFPA after March 1 for obligation for
the remainder of the fiscal year in which the
report is submitted.
REORGANIZATION AND INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
SEC. 7073. (a) OVERSIGHT.—
(1) PRIOR CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICA-
TION.—Funds appropriated by this Act, prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, or any other Act may not be
used to implement a reorganization, rede-
sign, or other plan described in paragraph (2)
by the Department of State, the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, or any other Federal department,
agency, or organization funded by this Act
without prior consultation by the head of
such department, agency, or organization
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees: Provided, That such funds shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided
further, That any such notification sub-
mitted to such Committees shall include a
detailed justification for any proposed ac-
tion, including the information specified
under this section in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided further, That congressional no-
tifications submitted during the previous fis-
cal year pursuant to section 7081 of the De-
partment of State, Foreign Operations, and
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018
(division K of Public Law 115–141) may be
deemed to meet the notification require-
ments of this section.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES.—Pursuant
to paragraph (1), a reorganization, redesign,
or other plan shall include any action to—
(A) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or
downsize covered departments, agencies, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S434 January 22, 2019
organizations, including bureaus and offices
within or between such departments, agen-
cies, or organizations, including the transfer
to other agencies of the authorities and re-
sponsibilities of such bureaus and offices;
(B) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or
downsize the United States official presence
overseas including at bilateral, regional, and
multilateral diplomatic facilities and other
platforms; or
(C) expand or reduce the size of the Civil
Service, Foreign Service, eligible family
member, and locally employed staff work-
force of the Department of State and USAID
from the on-board levels as of December 31,
2017.
(b) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITA-
TIONS.—
(1) PERSONNEL LEVELS.—Funds made avail-
able by this Act are made available to sup-
port the agency-wide on-board Foreign Serv-
ice and Civil Service staff levels of the De-
partment of State and USAID at not less
than the levels as of December 31, 2017.
(2) REPORTS.—
(A) Not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, and quarterly thereafter until
September 30, 2020, the USAID Adminis-
trator shall submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees on the sta-
tus of USAID reorganization as described in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That the
USAID Administrator shall consult with the
appropriate congressional committees on the
format of such reports.
(B) Not later than 60 days after enactment
of this Act and every 60 days thereafter until
September 30, 2020, the Secretary of State, in
the case of the Department of State, and the
USAID Administrator, in the case of USAID,
shall report to the appropriate congressional
committees on the on-board personnel levels,
hiring, and attrition of the Civil Service,
Foreign Service, eligible family member, and
locally employed staff workforce of the De-
partment of State and USAID, as appro-
priate, on an operating unit-by-operating
unit basis: Provided, That such report shall
also include a hiring plan, including
timelines, for maintaining the agency-wide,
on-board Foreign Service and Civil Service
at not less than the December 31, 2017 level
through fiscal year 2019.
(3) BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND
MIGRATION, DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—None of
the funds appropriated by this Act, prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, or any other Act may be
used to downsize, downgrade, consolidate,
close, move, or relocate the Bureau of Popu-
lation, Refugees, and Migration, Department
of State, or any activities of such Bureau, to
another Federal agency.
(4) ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.—Funds made
available by this Act—
(A) under the heading ‘‘Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance’’ shall be administered by
the Assistant Secretary for Population, Ref-
ugees, and Migration, Department of State,
and this responsibility shall not be dele-
gated; and
(B) that are made available for the Office
of Global Women’s Issues shall be adminis-
tered by the United States Ambassador-at-
Large for Global Women’s Issues, Depart-
ment of State, and this responsibility shall
not be delegated.
(5) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM.—
(A) None of the funds appropriated in title
I of this Act under the heading ‘‘Administra-
tion of Foreign Affairs’’ may be made avail-
able for a new major information technology
(IT) investment without the concurrence of
the Chief Information Officer, Department of
State.
(B) In complying with the requirements of
this paragraph, the Chief Information Offi-
cer, Department of State, shall consider
whether a new major information technology
investment—
(i) is consistent with the Department In-
formation Technology Strategic Plan;
(ii) maintains consolidated control over
enterprise IT functions or improves oper-
ational maintenance;
(iii) improves Department of State resil-
iency to a cyber-attack;
(iv) reduces Department of State IT costs
over the long-term; and
(v) is in accordance with the Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation (FAR), including FAR
Part 6 regarding competition requirements.
(6) TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND LIMI-
TATION.—
(A) None of the funds made available by
this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs may be
used by an agency to submit a project pro-
posal to the Technology Modernization
Board for funding from the Technology Mod-
ernization Fund unless, not later than 15
days in advance of submitting the project
proposal to the Board, the head of the agen-
cy—
(i) notifies the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the proposed submission of the
project proposal; and
(ii) submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations a copy of the project proposal.
(B) None of the funds made available by
this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs may be
used by an agency to carry out a project that
is approved by the Board unless the head of
the agency—
(i) submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations a copy of the approved project pro-
posal, including the terms of reimbursement
of funding received for the project; and
(ii) agrees to submit to the Committees on
Appropriations a copy of each report relating
to the project that the head of the agency
submits to the Board.
(7) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REVIEW.—Pro-
grammatic, funding, and organizational
changes resulting from implementation of
the Foreign Assistance Review shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with, and the reg-
ular notification procedures of, the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That such
notifications may be submitted in classified
form, if necessary.
RESCISSIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
SEC. 7074. (a) Of the unobligated balances
available under the heading ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’, as
identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund
Symbol 11 X 1022, $12,420,000 are rescinded.
(b) Of the grant balances in the Foreign
Military Sales Trust Fund, identified by
Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbol 97–11
X 8242, which are not currently applied to an
active FMS case and which were appro-
priated prior to fiscal year 2009, $11,000,000
shall be deobligated, as appropriate, and
shall be permanently rescinded.
JOHN S. MCCAIN SCHOLARS PROGRAM
SEC. 7075. Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Educational and Cultural
Exchange Programs’’ that are made avail-
able for the Benjamin Gilman International
Scholarships Program shall also be made
available for the John S. McCain Scholars
Program, pursuant to section 303 of the
International Academic Opportunity Act of
2000 (Public Law 106–309), to include the de-
pendents of active United States military
personnel who are receiving any form of Fed-
eral Financial Aid under title IV of the High-
er Education Act of 1965.
AFGHAN SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISAS
SEC. 7076. (a) AFGHAN ALLIES.—Section
602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection
Act of 2009 (division F of Public Law 111–8),
as amended, is further amended by sub-
stituting ‘‘18,500’’ for ‘‘14,500’’ in the matter
preceding clause (i).
(b) CONDITIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for the additional special immigrant visas
made available under subsection (a) until the
Secretary of State—
(1) develops and implements a system to
prioritize the processing of Afghan appli-
cants for special immigrant visas under sec-
tion 602 of the Afghan Allies Protection Act
of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note); and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees, as defined in section
602(a) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of
2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note), the following re-
ports:
(A) the report required under paragraph
(12) of section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies
Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note), as
amended by section 1222 of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232);
(B) a report on the procedures and proc-
esses used by the Chief of Mission to deter-
mine whether an Afghan applicant for a spe-
cial immigrant visa under section 602 of the
Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C.
1101 note) has experienced, is experiencing,
or may reasonably be expected to experience
an ongoing, serious threat as a result of the
qualifying service of the applicant; and
(C) a report on the procedures for back-
ground and security checks on Afghan appli-
cants for special immigrant visas under such
section.
SAUDI ARABIA
SEC. 7077. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Military Education and Training’’ may be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Saudi Arabia.
TITLE VIII
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Diplomatic
Programs’’, $3,225,971,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, of which
$2,626,122,000 is for Worldwide Security Pro-
tection and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary of
State may transfer up to $5,000,000 of the
total funds made available under this head-
ing to any other appropriation of any depart-
ment or agency of the United States, upon
the concurrence of the head of such depart-
ment or agency, to support operations in,
and assistance for, Afghanistan and to carry
out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961: Provided further, That any such
transfer shall be subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For an additional amount for ‘‘Office of In-
spector General’’, $54,900,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, which
shall be for the Special Inspector General for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S435
January 22, 2019
Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for re-
construction oversight: Provided, That print-
ing and reproduction costs of SIGAR shall
not exceed amounts for such costs during fis-
cal year 2018: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Contribu-
tions to International Organizations’’,
$96,240,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Contribu-
tions for International Peacekeeping Activi-
ties’’, $988,656,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operating
Expenses’’, $158,067,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Inter-
national Disaster Assistance’’, $584,278,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds shall be apportioned to the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TRANSITION INITIATIVES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Transition
Initiatives’’, $62,043,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress for Overseas
Contingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
For an additional amount for ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’, $1,172,336,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Migration
and Refugee Assistance’’ to respond to ref-
ugee crises, including in Africa, the Near
East, South and Central Asia, and Europe
and Eurasia, $1,404,124,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, except that such funds
shall not be made available for the resettle-
ment costs of refugees in the United States:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Peace-
keeping Operations’’, $325,213,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That funds available for obliga-
tion under this heading in this Act may be
used to pay assessed expenses of inter-
national peacekeeping activities in Somalia
under the same terms and conditions, as ap-
plicable, as funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Contributions for International
Peacekeeping Activities’’ in this Act, subject
to the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Foreign
Military Financing Program’’, $229,372,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 8001. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, funds appropriated in this title
are in addition to amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available in this Act for fis-
cal year 2019.
EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES AND CONDITIONS
SEC. 8002. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts in this Act shall be available under
the authorities and conditions applicable to
such appropriations accounts.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
SEC. 8003. (a) TRANSFER OF FUNDS BETWEEN
ACCOUNTS.—
(1) Funds appropriated by this title in this
Act under the headings ‘‘Transition Initia-
tives’’ and ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may
be transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this title under such headings.
(2) Funds appropriated by this title in this
Act under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping Oper-
ations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’ may be transferred to, and merged
with, funds appropriated by this title under
such headings.
(b) GLOBAL SECURITY CONTINGENCY FUND.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, up to $7,500,000 from funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ by this title in this Act may
be transferred to, and merged with, funds
previously made available under the heading
‘‘Global Security Contingency Fund’’.
(c) LIMITATION.—The transfer authority
provided in subsection (a) may only be exer-
cised to address contingencies.
(d) NOTIFICATION.—The transfer authority
provided by this section shall be subject to
prior consultation with, and the regular no-
tification procedures of, the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided, That such transfer
authority is in addition to any transfer au-
thority otherwise available under any other
provision of law, including section 610 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which may be
exercised by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this title.
RESCISSION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
SEC. 8004. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts available under the heading ‘‘Diplo-
matic and Consular Programs’’ in title II of
the Security Assistance Appropriations Act,
2017 (division B of Public Law 114–254),
$301,200,000 are rescinded: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION G—TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $113,910,000, of which not to ex-
ceed $3,065,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Secretary; not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not
to exceed $20,428,000 shall be available for the
Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed
$10,331,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Under Secretary of Transportation for
Policy; not to exceed $14,300,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Budget and Programs; not to ex-
ceed $2,546,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Govern-
mental Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration; not to exceed
$2,142,000 shall be available for the Office of
Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,859,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Executive
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,181,000 shall be
available for the Office of Intelligence, Secu-
rity, and Emergency Response; and not to
exceed $16,814,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Chief Information Officer: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to transfer funds appropriated
for any office of the Office of the Secretary
to any other office of the Office of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That no appropria-
tion for any office shall be increased or de-
creased by more than 7 percent by all such
transfers: Provided further, That notice of
any change in funding greater than 7 percent
shall be submitted for approval to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000
shall be for allocation within the Depart-
ment for official reception and representa-
tion expenses as the Secretary may deter-
mine: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, excluding fees au-
thorized in Public Law 107–71, there may be
credited to this appropriation up to $2,500,000
in funds received in user fees: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for the position of As-
sistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses related to the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Research
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S436 January 22, 2019
and Technology, $8,471,000, of which $2,218,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That there may be credited to
this appropriation, to be available until ex-
pended, funds received from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training: Provided further, That any reference
in law, regulation, judicial proceedings, or
elsewhere to the Research and Innovative
Technology Administration shall continue to
be deemed to be a reference to the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Research and
Technology of the Department of Transpor-
tation.
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
For capital investments in surface trans-
portation infrastructure, $900,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2021:
Provided, That the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall distribute funds provided under
this heading as discretionary grants to be
awarded to a State, local government, tran-
sit agency, port authority, or a collaboration
among such entities on a competitive basis
for projects that will have a significant local
or regional impact: Provided further, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall include, but not be limited
to, highway or bridge projects eligible under
title 23, United States Code; public transpor-
tation projects eligible under chapter 53 of
title 49, United States Code; passenger and
freight rail transportation projects; and port
infrastructure investments (including inland
port infrastructure and land ports of entry):
Provided further, That of the amount made
available under this heading, the Secretary
may use an amount not to exceed $15,000,000
for the planning, preparation or design of
projects eligible for funding under this head-
ing: Provided further, That grants awarded
under the previous proviso shall not be sub-
ject to a minimum grant size: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary may use up to 20
percent of the funds made available under
this heading for the purpose of paying the
subsidy and administrative costs of projects
eligible for Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revi-
talization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976
(Public Law 94–210), as amended, if the Sec-
retary finds that such use of the funds would
advance the purposes of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That in distributing funds pro-
vided under this heading, the Secretary shall
take such measures so as to ensure an equi-
table geographic distribution of funds, an ap-
propriate balance in addressing the needs of
urban and rural areas, and the investment in
a variety of transportation modes: Provided
further, That a grant funded under this head-
ing shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not
greater than $25,000,000: Provided further,
That not more than 10 percent of the funds
made available under this heading may be
awarded to projects in a single State: Pro-
vided further, That the Federal share of the
costs for which an expenditure is made under
this heading shall be, at the option of the re-
cipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall give priority to
projects that require a contribution of Fed-
eral funds in order to complete an overall fi-
nancing package: Provided further, That of
the funds made available under this heading
not more than 50 percent shall be for
projects located in a rural area with a popu-
lation equal to or less than 200,000: Provided
further, That for projects located in a rural
area, the minimum grant size shall be
$1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the
Federal share of costs above 80 percent: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading not more than 50
percent shall be for projects located in an ur-
banized area with a population of more than
200,000: Provided further, That funds for an ur-
banized area under the previous proviso may
be obligated to projects in the metropolitan
area established under section 134 of title 23,
United States Code, that encompasses such
urbanized area: Provided further, That
projects conducted using funds provided
under this heading must comply with the re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40, United States Code: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall conduct a new com-
petition to select the grants and credit as-
sistance awarded under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary may set
aside not more than 3 percent of the funds
provided under this heading, and may trans-
fer portions of those funds to the Adminis-
trators of the Federal Highway Administra-
tion, the Federal Transit Administration,
the Federal Railroad Administration, and
the Maritime Administration to fund the
award and oversight of grants and credit as-
sistance made under the National Infrastruc-
ture Investments program: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall consider and award
projects based solely on the selection cri-
teria from the fiscal year 2017 Notice of
Funding Opportunity: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the previous proviso, the
Secretary shall not use the Federal share or
an applicant’s ability to generate non-Fed-
eral revenue as a selection criteria in award-
ing projects: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall issue the Notice of Funding Op-
portunity no later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That such
Notice of Funding Opportunity shall require
application submissions 90 days after the
publishing of such Notice: Provided further,
That of the applications submitted under the
previous two provisos, the Secretary shall
make grants no later than 270 days after en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That such sums provided for national infra-
structure investments for passenger rail
transportation projects under title I of divi-
sion C of the Consolidated and Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law
112–55; 125 Stat. 641), shall remain available
for expenditure through fiscal year 2019 for
the liquidation of valid obligations of active
grants awarded with this funding: Provided
further, That such sums provided for national
infrastructure investments for port infra-
structure projects under title VIII of division
F of the Consolidated and Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law
113–6; 127 Stat. 432) shall remain available
through fiscal year 2020 for the liquidation of
valid obligations of active grants awarded
with this funding: Provided further, That the
2 preceding provisos shall be applied as if
they were in effect on September 30, 2018.
NATIONAL SURFACE TRANSPORTATION AND
INNOVATIVE FINANCE BUREAU
For necessary expenses of the National
Surface Transportation and Innovative Fi-
nance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116,
$5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary shall
notify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations no less than 15 days prior to
exercising the transfer authority granted
under section 116(h) of title 49, United States
Code.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL
For necessary expenses for upgrading and
enhancing the Department of Transpor-
tation’s financial systems and re-engineering
business processes, $2,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2020.
CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for cyber security
initiatives, including necessary upgrades to
wide area network and information tech-
nology infrastructure, improvement of net-
work perimeter controls and identity man-
agement, testing and assessment of informa-
tion technology against business, security,
and other requirements, implementation of
Federal cyber security initiatives and infor-
mation infrastructure enhancements, and
implementation of enhanced security con-
trols on network devices, $15,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2020.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $9,470,000.
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND
DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for conducting
transportation planning, research, systems
development, development activities, and
making grants, $7,879,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of such
amount, $1,000,000 shall be for necessary ex-
penses of the Interagency Infrastructure Per-
mitting Improvement Center (IIPIC): Pro-
vided further, That there may be transferred
to this appropriation, to remain available
until expended, amounts transferred from
other Federal agencies for expenses incurred
under this heading for IIPIC activities not
related to transportation infrastructure: Pro-
vided further, That the tools and analysis de-
veloped by the IIPIC shall be available to
other Federal agencies for the permitting
and review of major infrastructure projects
not related to transportation only to the ex-
tent that other Federal agencies provide
funding to the Department as provided for
under the previous proviso.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For necessary expenses for operating costs
and capital outlays of the Working Capital
Fund, not to exceed $319,793,000, shall be paid
from appropriations made available to the
Department of Transportation: Provided,
That such services shall be provided on a
competitive basis to entities within the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the above limitation on operating ex-
penses shall not apply to non-DOT entities:
Provided further, That no funds appropriated
in this Act to an agency of the Department
shall be transferred to the Working Capital
Fund without majority approval of the
Working Capital Fund Steering Committee
and approval of the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That no assessments may be levied
against any program, budget activity, sub-
activity or project funded by this Act unless
notice of such assessments and the basis
therefor are presented to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations and are
approved by such Committees.
MINORITY BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of the Minority
Business Resource Center, the provision of
financial education outreach activities to el-
igible transportation-related small busi-
nesses, the monitoring of existing loans in
the guaranteed loan program, and the modi-
fication of such loans of the Minority Busi-
ness Resource Center, $500,000, as authorized
by 49 U.S.C. 332; Provided, That notwith-
standing that section, these funds may be for
business opportunities related to any mode
of transportation.
SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS
UTILIZATION AND OUTREACH
For necessary expenses for small and dis-
advantaged business utilization and outreach
activities, $3,488,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may
be used for business opportunities related to
any mode of transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S437
January 22, 2019
PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
In addition to funds made available from
any other source to carry out the essential
air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731
through 41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That in determining between or among car-
riers competing to provide service to a com-
munity, the Secretary may consider the rel-
ative subsidy requirements of the carriers:
Provided further, That basic essential air
service minimum requirements shall not in-
clude the 15-passenger capacity requirement
under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act or any other
Act shall be used to enter into a new con-
tract with a community located less than 40
miles from the nearest small hub airport be-
fore the Secretary has negotiated with the
community over a local cost share: Provided
further, That amounts authorized to be dis-
tributed for the essential air service program
under subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United
States Code, shall be made available imme-
diately from amounts otherwise provided to
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration: Provided further, That the
Administrator may reimburse such amounts
from fees credited to the account established
under section 45303 of title 49, United States
Code.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 101. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be obligated for the Office of the
Secretary of Transportation to approve as-
sessments or reimbursable agreements per-
taining to funds appropriated to the modal
administrations in this Act, except for ac-
tivities underway on the date of enactment
of this Act, unless such assessments or
agreements have completed the normal re-
programming process for Congressional noti-
fication.
SEC. 102. The Secretary shall post on the
Web site of the Department of Transpor-
tation a schedule of all meetings of the
Council on Credit and Finance, including the
agenda for each meeting, and require the
Council on Credit and Finance to record the
decisions and actions of each meeting.
SEC. 103. In addition to authority provided
by section 327 of title 49, United States Code,
the Department’s Working Capital Fund is
hereby authorized to provide partial or full
payments in advance and accept subsequent
reimbursements from all Federal agencies
from available funds for transit benefit dis-
tribution services that are necessary to
carry out the Federal transit pass transpor-
tation fringe benefit program under Execu-
tive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of Pub-
lic Law 109–59: Provided, That the Depart-
ment shall maintain a reasonable operating
reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be
expended in advance to provide uninter-
rupted transit benefits to Government em-
ployees: Provided further, That such reserve
will not exceed one month of benefits pay-
able and may be used only for the purpose of
providing for the continuation of transit
benefits: Provided further, That the Working
Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by
each customer agency from available funds
for the actual cost of the transit benefit.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Aviation Administration, not otherwise pro-
vided for, including operations and research
activities related to commercial space trans-
portation, administrative expenses for re-
search and development, establishment of
air navigation facilities, the operation (in-
cluding leasing) and maintenance of aircraft,
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts
and maps sold to the public, the lease or pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for re-
placement only, in addition to amounts
made available by Public Law 112–95,
$10,410,758,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $9,833,400,000 shall
be derived from the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund, of which not to exceed
$7,841,720,000 shall be available for air traffic
organization activities; not to exceed
$1,336,969,000 shall be available for aviation
safety activities; not to exceed $24,949,000
shall be available for commercial space
transportation activities; not to exceed
$816,398,000 shall be available for finance and
management activities; not to exceed
$61,258,000 shall be available for NextGen and
operations planning activities; not to exceed
$114,165,000 shall be available for security and
hazardous materials safety; and not to ex-
ceed $215,299,000 shall be available for staff
offices: Provided, That not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any budget activity, except for avia-
tion safety budget activity, may be trans-
ferred to any budget activity under this
heading: Provided further, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any appropriation
by more than 5 percent: Provided further,
That any transfer in excess of 5 percent shall
be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 405 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section: Provided further, That
not later than March 31 of each fiscal year
hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall transmit to
Congress an annual update to the report sub-
mitted to Congress in December 2004 pursu-
ant to section 221 of Public Law 108–176: Pro-
vided further, That the amount herein appro-
priated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each
day after March 31 that such report has not
been submitted to the Congress: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than March 31 of each
fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall
transmit to Congress a companion report
that describes a comprehensive strategy for
staffing, hiring, and training flight standards
and aircraft certification staff in a format
similar to the one utilized for the controller
staffing plan, including stated attrition esti-
mates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal
year: Provided further, That the amount here-
in appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000
per day for each day after March 31 that such
report has not been submitted to Congress:
Provided further, That funds may be used to
enter into a grant agreement with a non-
profit standard-setting organization to assist
in the development of aviation safety stand-
ards: Provided further, That none of the funds
in this Act shall be available for new appli-
cants for the second career training pro-
gram: Provided further, That none of the
funds in this Act shall be available for the
Federal Aviation Administration to finalize
or implement any regulation that would pro-
mulgate new aviation user fees not specifi-
cally authorized by law after the date of the
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
as offsetting collections, funds received from
States, counties, municipalities, foreign au-
thorities, other public authorities, and pri-
vate sources for expenses incurred in the pro-
vision of agency services, including receipts
for the maintenance and operation of air
navigation facilities, and for issuance, re-
newal or modification of certificates, includ-
ing airman, aircraft, and repair station cer-
tificates, or for tests related thereto, or for
processing major repair or alteration forms:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, not less than
$168,000,000 shall be used to fund direct oper-
ations of the current 254 air traffic control
towers in the contract tower program, in-
cluding the contract tower cost share pro-
gram, and any airport that is currently
qualified or that will qualify for the program
during the fiscal year: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical
charting and cartography are available for
activities conducted by, or coordinated
through, the Working Capital Fund: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act or
any other Act may be used to eliminate the
Contract Weather Observers program at any
airport: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, up to
$6,000,000 shall be used for providing match-
ing funds to qualified commercial entities
seeking to demonstrate or validate tech-
nologies that the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration considers essential to the safe inte-
gration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS)
in the National Airspace System at Federal
Aviation Administration designated UAS
test sites: Provided further, That not later
than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall identify es-
sential integration technologies that could
be demonstrated or validated at test sites
designated in accordance with the preceding
proviso.
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for acquisition, establishment,
technical support services, improvement by
contract or purchase, and hire of national
airspace systems and experimental facilities
and equipment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including initial acquisition of necessary
sites by lease or grant; engineering and serv-
ice testing, including construction of test fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant; construction and furnishing
of quarters and related accommodations for
officers and employees of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration stationed at remote lo-
calities where such accommodations are not
available; and the purchase, lease, or trans-
fer of aircraft from funds available under
this heading, including aircraft for aviation
regulation and certification; to be derived
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund,
$3,000,000,000, of which $512,823,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020,
$2,372,127,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, and $115,050,000 shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That there may be credited to this appro-
priation funds received from States, coun-
ties, municipalities, other public authorities,
and private sources, for expenses incurred in
the establishment, improvement, and mod-
ernization of national airspace systems: Pro-
vided further, That no later than March 31,
the Secretary of Transportation shall trans-
mit to the Congress an investment plan for
the Federal Aviation Administration which
includes funding for each budget line item
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, with total
funding for each year of the plan constrained
to the funding targets for those years as esti-
mated and approved by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for research, engineering, and de-
velopment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including construction of experimental fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S438 January 22, 2019
lease or grant, $191,100,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That there may be credited to this
appropriation as offsetting collections, funds
received from States, counties, municipali-
ties, other public authorities, and private
sources, which shall be available for ex-
penses incurred for research, engineering,
and development: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading
shall be used in accordance with the explana-
tory statement accompanying this Act: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed 10 percent
of any funding level specified under this
heading in the explanatory statement ac-
companying this Act may be transferred to
any other funding level specified under this
heading in the explanatory statement ac-
companying this Act: Provided further, That
no transfer may increase or decrease any
funding level by more than 10 percent: Pro-
vided further, That any transfer in excess of
10 percent shall be treated as a reprogram-
ming of funds under section 405 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For liquidation of obligations incurred for
grants-in-aid for airport planning and devel-
opment, and noise compatibility planning
and programs as authorized under sub-
chapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter I of
chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code,
and under other law authorizing such obliga-
tions; for procurement, installation, and
commissioning of runway incursion preven-
tion devices and systems at airports of such
title; for grants authorized under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for
inspection activities and administration of
airport safety programs, including those re-
lated to airport operating certificates under
section 44706 of title 49, United States Code,
$3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport
and Airway Trust Fund and to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the planning or execution of pro-
grams the obligations for which are in excess
of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2019, notwith-
standing section 47117(g) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the replacement of baggage con-
veyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal
baggage areas, or other airport improve-
ments that are necessary to install bulk ex-
plosive detection systems: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 47109(a) of
title 49, United States Code, the Govern-
ment’s share of allowable project costs under
paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3)
of that section shall be 95 percent for a
project at other than a large or medium hub
airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the
project sponsor received a grant in fiscal
year 2011 for the construction project: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, of funds limited under
this heading, not more than $112,600,000 shall
be available for administration, not less than
$15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport
Cooperative Research Program, not less than
$33,210,000 shall be available for Airport
Technology Research, and $10,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
available and transferred to ‘‘Office of the
Secretary, Salaries and Expenses’’ to carry
out the Small Community Air Service Devel-
opment Program: Provided further, That in
addition to airports eligible under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code, such
program may include the participation of an
airport that serves a community or consor-
tium that is not larger than a small hub air-
port, according to FAA hub classifications
effective at the time the Office of the Sec-
retary issues a request for proposals.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Grants-In-
Aid for Airports’’, to enable the Secretary of
Transportation to make grants for projects
as authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471
and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49,
United States Code, $500,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That amounts made available under
this heading shall be derived from the gen-
eral fund, and such funds shall not be subject
to apportionment formulas, special appor-
tionment categories, or minimum percent-
ages under chapter 471: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall distribute funds provided
under this heading as discretionary grants to
airports: Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading shall not
be subject to any limitation on obligations
for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports program
set forth in any Act: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration may retain up to 0.5 percent
of the funds provided under this heading to
fund the award and oversight by the Admin-
istrator of grants made under this heading.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 110. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to compensate in excess of 600 tech-
nical staff-years under the federally funded
research and development center contract
between the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion and the Center for Advanced Aviation
Systems Development during fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 111. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used to pursue or adopt guidelines or reg-
ulations requiring airport sponsors to pro-
vide to the Federal Aviation Administration
without cost building construction, mainte-
nance, utilities and expenses, or space in air-
port sponsor-owned buildings for services re-
lating to air traffic control, air navigation,
or weather reporting: Provided, That the pro-
hibition of funds in this section does not
apply to negotiations between the agency
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement
on ‘‘below-market’’ rates for these items or
to grant assurances that require airport
sponsors to provide land without cost to the
Federal Aviation Administration for air traf-
fic control facilities.
SEC. 112. The Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration may reimburse
amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C.
41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 U.S.C.
45303 and any amount remaining in such ac-
count at the close of that fiscal year may be
made available to satisfy section 41742(a)(1)
for the subsequent fiscal year.
SEC. 113. Amounts collected under section
40113(e) of title 49, United States Code, shall
be credited to the appropriation current at
the time of collection, to be merged with and
available for the same purposes of such ap-
propriation.
SEC. 114. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for paying premium pay under
subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administra-
tion employee unless such employee actually
performed work during the time cor-
responding to such premium pay.
SEC. 115. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for an employee of
the Federal Aviation Administration to pur-
chase a store gift card or gift certificate
through use of a Government-issued credit
card.
SEC. 116. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for retention bo-
nuses for an employee of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration without the prior writ-
ten approval of the Assistant Secretary for
Administration of the Department of Trans-
portation.
SEC. 117. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
under this Act or any prior Act may be used
to implement or to continue to implement
any limitation on the ability of any owner or
operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon
a request to the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, a blocking of
that owner’s or operator’s aircraft registra-
tion number from any display of the Federal
Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Situa-
tional Display to Industry data that is made
available to the public, except data made
available to a Government agency, for the
noncommercial flights of that owner or oper-
ator.
SEC. 118. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than eight political and Presidential
appointees in the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 119. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to increase fees
pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration provides to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations a report
that justifies all fees related to aeronautical
navigation products and explains how such
fees are consistent with Executive Order
13642.
SEC. 119A. None of the funds in this Act
may be used to close a regional operations
center of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion or reduce its services unless the Admin-
istrator notifies the House and Senate Com-
mittees on Appropriations not less than 90
full business days in advance.
SEC. 119B. None of the funds appropriated
or limited by this Act may be used to change
weight restrictions or prior permission rules
at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jer-
sey.
SEC. 119C. None of the funds provided under
this Act may be used by the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration to
withhold from consideration and approval
any new application for participation in the
Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation
of Cost-share Program participants as long
as the Federal Aviation Administration has
received an application from the airport, and
as long as the Administrator determines
such tower is eligible using the factors set
forth in the Federal Aviation Administration
report, Establishment and Discontinuance
Criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers
(FAA–APO–90–7 as of August, 1990).
SEC. 119D. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, none of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended to limit the use of an Organization
Designation Authorization’s (ODA) delegated
functions documented in its procedures man-
ual on a type certification project unless the
Administrator documents a systemic air-
worthiness noncompliance performance issue
as a result of inspection or oversight that
the safety of air commerce requires a limita-
tion with regard to a specific authorization
or where an ODA’s capability has not been
previously established in terms of a new
compliance method or design feature: Pro-
vided, That in such cases FAA shall work
with the ODA holder if requested to develop
the capability to execute that function safe-
ly, efficiently and effectively: Provided fur-
ther, That this section does not limit the au-
thority of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion to pursue emergency actions on ODAs
where specific safety issues are noted.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S439
January 22, 2019
SEC. 119E. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act and apportioned under sec-
tion 47114(d) of title 49, United States Code,
shall be made available for construction of a
storage building, or a portion of such build-
ing, to shelter snow equipment in excess of
equipment needs established by standards
issued by the Secretary of Transportation
that is owned by an airport categorized as a
local general aviation airport as indicated in
Federal Aviation Administration 2017- 2021
National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems
(NPIAS) report unless such airport sponsor
certifies conformity with the following:
(1) The storage building, or portion there-
of, to be constructed will be used to store
snow removal equipment exclusively used for
clearing airfield pavement of snow and ice
following a weather event.
(2) The 30-year annual snowfall normal of
the nearest weather station based on the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Summary of Monthly Normals 1981-2010
exceeds 26 inches.
(3) The airport serves as a base for a med-
ical air ambulance transport aircraft; (d)that
the airport master record (Form 5010-1) effec-
tive on September 14, 2017 for the airport in-
dicates 45 based aircraft consisting of single
engine, multiple engine, and jet engine air-
craft.
(4) The airport sponsor will complete de-
sign of the storage building not later than
fiscal year 2018 and initiate construction of
the storage building not later than fiscal
year 2019.
(5) The area of the storage building, or por-
tion thereof, to be funded under this section
shall not exceed 6,000 square feet.
SEC. 119F. (a) TERMINAL AERODROME FORE-
CAST.—The Administrator shall permit an
air carrier operation under part 121 of title
14, Code of Federal Regulations, to operate
to a destination determined to be under vis-
ual flight rules without a Terminal Aero-
drome Forecast or Meteorological Aero-
drome Report if a current Area Forecast,
supplemented by other local weather obser-
vations or reports, is available, and an alter-
nate airport that has an available Terminal
Aerodrome Forecast and weather report is
specified. The air carrier shall have approved
procedures for dispatch and en route weather
evaluation and shall operate under instru-
ment flight rules en route to the destination.
(b) LIMITATION.—Without a written finding
of necessity, based on objective and histor-
ical evidence of imminent threat to safety,
the Administrator shall not promulgate any
operation specification, policy, or guidance
document that is more restrictive than, or
requires procedures that are not expressly
stated in, the regulations.
SEC. 119G. Of the funds provided under the
heading ‘‘Grants-in-aid for Airports’’, up to
$3,500,000 shall be for necessary expenses, in-
cluding an independent verification regime,
to provide reimbursement to airport spon-
sors that do not provide gateway operations
and providers of general aviation ground sup-
port services located at those airports closed
during a temporary flight restriction (TFR)
for any residence of the President that is
designated or identified to be secured by the
United States Secret Service, and for direct
and incremental financial losses incurred
while such airports are closed solely due to
the actions of the Federal Government: Pro-
vided, That no funds shall be obligated or dis-
tributed to airport sponsors that do not pro-
vide gateway operations and providers of
general aviation ground support services
until an independent audit is completed: Pro-
vided further, That losses incurred as a result
of violations of law, or through fault or neg-
ligence, of such operators and service pro-
viders or of third parties (including airports)
are not eligible for reimbursements: Provided
further, That obligation and expenditure of
funds are conditional upon full release of the
United States Government for all claims for
financial losses resulting from such actions.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed $446,444,304, together with
advances and reimbursements received by
the Federal Highway Administration, shall
be obligated for necessary expenses for ad-
ministration and operation of the Federal
Highway Administration. In addition,
$3,248,000 shall be transferred to the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission in accordance
with section 104(a) of title 23, United States
Code.
FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
Funds available for the implementation or
execution of Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under titles 23 and 49, United States
Code, and the provisions of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act shall not
exceed total obligations of $45,268,596,000 for
fiscal year 2019: Provided, That the Secretary
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by
title 23, United States Code, to cover the
costs of services of expert firms, including
counsel, in the field of municipal and project
finance to assist in the underwriting and
servicing of Federal credit instruments and
all or a portion of the costs to the Federal
Government of servicing such credit instru-
ments: Provided further, That such fees are
available until expended to pay for such
costs: Provided further, That such amounts
are in addition to administrative expenses
that are also available for such purpose, and
are not subject to any obligation limitation
or the limitation on administrative expenses
under section 608 of title 23, United States
Code.
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For the payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under title 23, United States Code,
$46,007,596,000 derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count), to remain available until expended.
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
There is hereby appropriated to the Sec-
retary of Transportation $3,250,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the amounts made available
under this heading shall be derived from the
general fund, shall be in addition to any
funds provided for fiscal year 2019 in this or
any other Act for ‘‘Federal-aid Highways’’
under chapter 1 of title 23, United States
Code, and shall not affect the distribution or
amount of funds provided in any other Act:
Provided further, That section 1101(b) of Pub-
lic Law 114–94 shall apply to funds made
available under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $2,729,000,000 shall be set aside
for activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code,
and for the elimination of hazards and the
installation of protective devices at railway-
highway crossings, $16,000,000 shall be set
aside for activities eligible under the Puerto
Rico Highway Program as described in sec-
tion 165(b)(2)(C) of such title, $5,000,000 shall
be set aside for activities eligible under the
Territorial Highway Program, as described
in section 165(c)(6) of such title, $25,000,000
shall be set aside for the nationally signifi-
cant Federal lands and tribal projects pro-
gram under section 1123 of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act
(Public Law 114–94), and $475,000,000 shall be
set aside for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program for qualifying States:
Provided further, That for purposes of this
heading, (1) the term ‘‘State’’ means any of
the 50 States or the District of Columbia and
(2) the term ‘‘qualifying State’’ means a
State for which the percentage of total deck
area of bridges classified as in poor condition
in such State is at least 7.5 percent: Provided
further, That the funds made available under
this heading for activities eligible under sec-
tion 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States
Code, and for the elimination of hazards and
the installation of protective devices at rail-
way-highway crossings, shall be suballocated
in the manner described in section 133(d) of
such title, except that the set-aside de-
scribed in section 133(h) of such title shall
not apply to funds made available under this
heading: Provided further, That the funds
made available under this heading for (1) ac-
tivities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of
such title and for the elimination of hazards
and the installation of protective devices at
railways-highway crossings, and (2) a bridge
replacement and rehabilitation program
shall be administered as if apportioned under
chapter 1 of such title and shall remain
available through September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided further, That the funds made available
under this heading for activities eligible
under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United
States Code, and for the elimination of haz-
ards and the installation of protective de-
vices at railway-highway crossings, shall be
apportioned to the States in the same ratio
as the obligation limitation for fiscal year
2019 is distributed among the States in sec-
tion 120(a)(5) of this Act: Provided further,
That, except as provided in the following
proviso, the funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under the
Puerto Rico Highway Program and activities
eligible under the Territorial Highway Pro-
gram shall be administered as if allocated
under sections 165(b) and 165(c), respectively,
of such title and shall remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under the
Puerto Rico Highway Program shall not be
subject to the requirements of sections
165(b)(2)(A) or 165(b)(2)(B) of such title: Pro-
vided further, That the funds made available
under this heading for the nationally signifi-
cant Federal lands and tribal projects pro-
gram under section 1123 of the FAST Act
shall remain available through September
30, 2022: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall distribute funds made available under
this heading for a bridge replacement and re-
habilitation program to each qualifying
State by the proportion that the percentage
of total deck area of bridges classified as in
poor condition in each qualifying State bears
to the sum of the percentages of total deck
area of bridges classified as in poor condition
in all qualifying States: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program shall be used for highway
bridge replacement or rehabilitation projects
on public roads: Provided further, That except
as provided in the following proviso the
funds made available under this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram shall be used in areas of a qualifying
State that have a population of 200,000 or
fewer individuals: Provided further, That if a
qualifying State has no bridges located in
areas with a population of 200,000 or fewer in-
dividuals, or if a qualifying State has insuffi-
cient bridge replacement or rehabilitation
needs in areas of the State with a population
of 200,000 or fewer individuals, the funds
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S440 January 22, 2019
made available under this heading for a
bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram may be used for highway bridge re-
placement or rehabilitation projects on pub-
lic roads in any area of the State: Provided
further, That for purposes of this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram, the Secretary shall (1) calculate popu-
lation based on the latest available data
from the decennial census conducted under
section 141(a) of title 13, United States Code,
and (2) calculate the percentages of total
deck area of bridges classified as in poor con-
dition based on the National Bridge Inven-
tory as of December 31, 2017.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall—
(1) not distribute from the obligation limi-
tation for Federal-aid highways—
(A) amounts authorized for administrative
expenses and programs by section 104(a) of
title 23, United States Code; and
(B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics;
(2) not distribute an amount from the obli-
gation limitation for Federal-aid highways
that is equal to the unobligated balance of
amounts—
(A) made available from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) for Federal-aid highway and highway
safety construction programs for previous
fiscal years the funds for which are allocated
by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Sec-
retary under sections 202 or 204 of title 23,
United States Code); and
(B) for which obligation limitation was
provided in a previous fiscal year;
(3) determine the proportion that—
(A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection; bears to
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be
appropriated for the Federal-aid highway
and highway safety construction programs
(other than sums authorized to be appro-
priated for provisions of law described in
paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (b)
and sums authorized to be appropriated for
section 119 of title 23, United States Code,
equal to the amount referred to in sub-
section (b)(12) for such fiscal year), less the
aggregate of the amounts not distributed
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this sub-
section;
(4) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2), for each of the programs (other
than programs to which paragraph (1) ap-
plies) that are allocated by the Secretary
under the Fixing America’s Surface Trans-
portation Act and title 23, United States
Code, or apportioned by the Secretary under
sections 202 or 204 of that title, by multi-
plying—
(A) the proportion determined under para-
graph (3); by
(B) the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each such program for such fiscal
year; and
(5) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under
paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and
highway safety construction programs that
are apportioned by the Secretary under title
23, United States Code (other than the
amounts apportioned for the National High-
way Performance Program in section 119 of
title 23, United States Code, that are exempt
from the limitation under subsection (b)(12)
and the amounts apportioned under sections
202 and 204 of that title) in the proportion
that—
(A) amounts authorized to be appropriated
for the programs that are apportioned under
title 23, United States Code, to each State
for such fiscal year; bears to
(B) the total of the amounts authorized to
be appropriated for the programs that are
apportioned under title 23, United States
Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
(b) EXCEPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TION.—The obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways shall not apply to obligations
under or for—
(1) section 125 of title 23, United States
Code;
(2) section 147 of the Surface Transpor-
tation Assistance Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144
note; 92 Stat. 2714);
(3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1981 (95 Stat. 1701);
(4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of
the Surface Transportation Assistance Act
of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
(5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of
the Surface Transportation and Uniform Re-
location Assistance Act of 1987 (101 Stat. 198);
(6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
(7) section 157 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect on June 8, 1998);
(8) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 1998
through 2004, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(9) Federal-aid highway programs for
which obligation authority was made avail-
able under the Transportation Equity Act
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subse-
quent Acts for multiple years or to remain
available until expended, but only to the ex-
tent that the obligation authority has not
lapsed or been used;
(10) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 2005
through 2012, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(11) section 1603 of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C.
118 note; 119 Stat. 1248), to the extent that
funds obligated in accordance with that sec-
tion were not subject to a limitation on obli-
gations at the time at which the funds were
initially made available for obligation; and
(12) section 119 of title 23, United States
Code (but, for each of fiscal years 2013
through 2019, only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000).
(c) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (a),
the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such
fiscal year—
(1) revise a distribution of the obligation
limitation made available under subsection
(a) if an amount distributed cannot be obli-
gated during that fiscal year; and
(2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those
States able to obligate amounts in addition
to those previously distributed during that
fiscal year, giving priority to those States
having large unobligated balances of funds
apportioned under sections 144 (as in effect
on the day before the date of enactment of
Public Law 112–141) and 104 of title 23, United
States Code.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TIONS TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways shall apply to contract
authority for transportation research pro-
grams carried out under—
(A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States
Code; and
(B) title VI of the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation Act.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Obligation authority made
available under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal
years; and
(B) be in addition to the amount of any
limitation imposed on obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs for future fiscal years.
(e) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED
FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of distribution of obligation
limitation under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall distribute to the States any
funds (excluding funds authorized for the
program under section 202 of title 23, United
States Code) that—
(A) are authorized to be appropriated for
such fiscal year for Federal-aid highway pro-
grams; and
(B) the Secretary determines will not be
allocated to the States (or will not be appor-
tioned to the States under section 204 of title
23, United States Code), and will not be
available for obligation, for such fiscal year
because of the imposition of any obligation
limitation for such fiscal year.
(2) RATIO.—Funds shall be distributed
under paragraph (1) in the same proportion
as the distribution of obligation authority
under subsection (a)(5).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Funds distributed to
each State under paragraph (1) shall be
available for any purpose described in sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
SEC. 121. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
funds received by the Bureau of Transpor-
tation Statistics from the sale of data prod-
ucts, for necessary expenses incurred pursu-
ant to chapter 63 of title 49, United States
Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid
highways account for the purpose of reim-
bursing the Bureau for such expenses: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be subject to the
obligation limitation for Federal-aid high-
way and highway safety construction pro-
grams.
SEC. 122. Not less than 15 days prior to
waiving, under his or her statutory author-
ity, any Buy America requirement for Fed-
eral-aid highways projects, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make an informal pub-
lic notice and comment opportunity on the
intent to issue such waiver and the reasons
therefor: Provided, That the Secretary shall
provide an annual report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations on
any waivers granted under the Buy America
requirements.
SEC. 123. None of the funds provided in this
Act to the Department of Transportation
may be used to provide credit assistance un-
less not less than 3 days before any applica-
tion approval to provide credit assistance
under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United
States Code, the Secretary of Transportation
provides notification in writing to the fol-
lowing committees: the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations; the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works
and the Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives: Provided,
That such notification shall include, but not
be limited to, the name of the project spon-
sor; a description of the project; whether
credit assistance will be provided as a direct
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and
the amount of credit assistance.
SEC. 124. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to make a grant for a project under
section 117 of title 23, United States Code,
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before
making a grant under that section, provides
written notification to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations of the pro-
posed grant, including an evaluation and jus-
tification for the project and the amount of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S441
January 22, 2019
the proposed grant award: Provided, That the
written notification required in the previous
proviso shall be made no later than 180 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined
in section 165 of title 23, United States Code,
may use for any project eligible under sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23
and located within the boundary of the State
or territory any earmarked amount, and any
associated obligation limitation: Provided,
That the Department of Transportation for
the State or territory for which the ear-
marked amount was originally designated or
directed notifies the Secretary of Transpor-
tation of its intent to use its authority under
this section and submits a quarterly report
to the Secretary identifying the projects to
which the funding would be applied. Not-
withstanding the original period of avail-
ability of funds to be obligated under this
section, such funds and associated obligation
limitation shall remain available for obliga-
tion for a period of 3 fiscal years after the
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Trans-
portation is notified. The Federal share of
the cost of a project carried out with funds
made available under this section shall be
the same as associated with the earmark.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘earmarked
amount’’ means—
(1) congressionally directed spending, as
defined in rule XLIV of the Standing Rules
of the Senate, identified in a prior law, re-
port, or joint explanatory statement, which
was authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration; or
(2) a congressional earmark, as defined in
rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives, identified in a prior law, report,
or joint explanatory statement, which was
authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration.
(c) The authority under subsection (a) may
be exercised only for those projects or activi-
ties that have obligated less than 10 percent
of the amount made available for obligation
as of October 1 of the current fiscal year, and
shall be applied to projects within the same
general geographic area within 50 miles for
which the funding was designated, except
that a State or territory may apply such au-
thority to unexpended balances of funds from
projects or activities the State or territory
certifies have been closed and for which pay-
ments have been made under a final voucher.
(d) The Secretary shall submit consoli-
dated reports of the information provided by
the States and territories each quarter to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations.
FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND
PROGRAMS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
implementation, execution and administra-
tion of motor carrier safety operations and
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title
49, United States Code, as amended by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $284,000,000, to be derived from the High-
way Trust Fund (other than the Mass Tran-
sit Account), together with advances and re-
imbursements received by the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of
which shall remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds available for implemen-
tation, execution or administration of motor
carrier safety operations and programs au-
thorized under title 49, United States Code,
shall not exceed total obligations of
$284,000,000 for ‘‘Motor Carrier Safety Oper-
ations and Programs’’ for fiscal year 2019, of
which $9,073,000, to remain available for obli-
gation until September 30, 2021, is for the re-
search and technology program, and of which
$34,824,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2021, is for information
management.
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and
31313 of title 49, United States Code, as
amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, $382,800,000, to be de-
rived from the Highway Trust Fund (other
than the Mass Transit Account) and to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That funds available for the implementation
or execution of motor carrier safety pro-
grams shall not exceed total obligations of
$382,800,000 in fiscal year 2019 for ‘‘Motor Car-
rier Safety Grants’’; of which $304,300,000
shall be available for the motor carrier safe-
ty assistance program, $32,500,000 shall be
available for the commercial driver’s license
program implementation program, $44,000,000
shall be available for the high priority ac-
tivities program, and $2,000,000 shall be made
available for commercial motor vehicle oper-
ators grants, of which $1,000,000 is to be made
available from prior year unobligated con-
tract authority provided for Motor Carrier
Safety grants in the Transportation Equity
Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105–178),
SAFETEA–LU (Public Law 109–59), or other
appropriations or authorization acts.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL MOTOR
CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 130. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall send notice of 49 CFR
section 385.308 violations by certified mail,
registered mail, or another manner of deliv-
ery, which records the receipt of the notice
by the persons responsible for the violations.
SEC. 131. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Transportation by this Act or any other
Act may be obligated or expended to imple-
ment, administer, or enforce the require-
ments of section 31137 of title 49, United
States Code, or any regulation issued by the
Secretary pursuant to such section, with re-
spect to the use of electronic logging devices
by operators of commercial motor vehicles,
as defined in section 31132(1) of such title,
transporting livestock as defined in section
602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assist-
ance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
SEC. 132. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act or any
other Act may be used to implement, enforce
or in any other way make effective the final
rule published by the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration on May 27, 2015, enti-
tled ‘‘Lease and Interchange of Vehicles;
Motor Carriers of Passengers’’.
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary to discharge the
functions of the Secretary, with respect to
traffic and highway safety authorized under
chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of title
49, United States Code, $190,000,000, of which
$40,000,000 shall remain available through
September 30, 2020.
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403,
section 4011 of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act (Public Law 114–94), and
chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code,
$152,100,000, to be derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds in
this Act shall be available for the planning
or execution of programs the total obliga-
tions for which, in fiscal year 2019, are in ex-
cess of $152,100,000, of which $146,700,000 shall
be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C.
403 and section 4011 of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act (Public Law 114–
94) and $5,400,000 shall be for the National
Driver Register authorized under chapter 303
of title 49, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That within the $152,100,000 obligation
limitation for operations and research,
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and shall be in addition to
the amount of any limitation imposed on ob-
ligations for future years.
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404,
and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, to re-
main available until expended, $610,208,000,
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund
(other than the Mass Transit Account): Pro-
vided, That none of the funds in this Act
shall be available for the planning or execu-
tion of programs the total obligations for
which, in fiscal year 2019, are in excess of
$610,208,000 for programs authorized under 23
U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6)
of the Fixing America’s Surface Transpor-
tation Act, of which $270,400,000 shall be for
‘‘Highway Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C.
402; $283,000,000 shall be for ‘‘National Pri-
ority Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C. 405;
$30,200,000 shall be for the ‘‘High Visibility
Enforcement Program’’ under 23 U.S.C. 404;
$26,608,000 shall be for ‘‘Administrative Ex-
penses’’ under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act: Pro-
vided further, That none of these funds shall
be used for construction, rehabilitation, or
remodeling costs, or for office furnishings
and fixtures for State, local or private build-
ings or structures: Provided further, That not
to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available
for ‘‘National Priority Safety Programs’’
under 23 U.S.C. 405 for ‘‘Impaired Driving
Countermeasures’’ (as described in sub-
section (d) of that section) shall be available
for technical assistance to the States: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to the
‘‘Transfers’’ provision under 23 U.S.C.
405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to in-
crease the amounts made available under
section 402 shall include the obligation au-
thority for such amounts: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of any exercise of the authority grant-
ed under the previous proviso or under 23
U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 140. An additional $130,000 shall be
made available to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, out of the
amount limited for section 402 of title 23,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S442 January 22, 2019
United States Code, to pay for travel and re-
lated expenses for State management re-
views and to pay for core competency devel-
opment training and related expenses for
highway safety staff.
SEC. 141. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration set in this Act
shall not apply to obligations for which obli-
gation authority was made available in pre-
vious public laws but only to the extent that
the obligation authority has not lapsed or
been used.
SEC. 142. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to mandate global
positioning system (GPS) tracking in private
passenger motor vehicles without providing
full and appropriate consideration of privacy
concerns under 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, sub-
chapter II.
SEC. 143. In addition to the amounts made
available under the heading, ‘‘Operations and
Research (Liquidation of Contract Author-
ization) (Limitation on Obligations) (High-
way Trust Fund)’’ for carrying out the provi-
sions of section 403 of title 23, United States
Code, $14,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, shall be made available
to the National Highway Traffic Safety Ad-
ministration from the general fund, of which
not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available to
provide funding for grants, pilot program ac-
tivities, and innovative solutions to reduce
impaired-driving fatalities in collaboration
with eligible entities under section 403 of
title 23, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $7,000,000 shall be available to continue
a high visibility enforcement paid-media
campaign regarding highway-rail grade
crossing safety in collaboration with the
Federal Railroad Administration.
FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SAFETY AND OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of the Federal Rail-
road Administration, not otherwise provided
for, $221,698,000, of which $18,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for railroad re-
search and development, $40,600,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT
FINANCING PROGRAM
The Secretary of Transportation is author-
ized to issue direct loans and loan guaran-
tees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of
the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–210), as
amended, such authority shall exist as long
as any such direct loan or loan guarantee is
outstanding.
FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE OF
GOOD REPAIR
For necessary expenses related to Federal-
State Partnership for State of Good Repair
Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title
49, United States Code, $400,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of
the amount provided under this heading for
the costs of award and project management
oversight of grants carried out under section
24911 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes funds provided under this heading in
this Act and previously unawarded funds
provided under this heading in fiscal year
2017 by Public Law 115–31 and fiscal year 2018
by Public Law 115–141, no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
180 days after enactment of this Act.
CONSOLIDATED RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses related to Consoli-
dated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Im-
provements Grants, as authorized by section
24407 of title 49, United States Code,
$255,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That section 24405(f) of
title 49, United States Code, shall not apply
to projects for the implementation of posi-
tive train control systems otherwise eligible
under section 24407(c)(1) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That amounts
available under this heading for projects se-
lected for commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation may be transferred by the Secretary,
after selection, to the appropriate agencies
to be administered in accordance with chap-
ter 53 of title 49, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall not
limit eligible projects from consideration for
funding for planning, engineering, environ-
mental, construction, and design elements of
the same project in the same application:
Provided further, That unobligated balances
remaining after 4 years from the date of en-
actment may be used for any eligible project
under section 24407(c) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may withhold up to one percent of the
amount provided under this heading for the
costs of award and project management over-
sight of grants carried out under section
24407 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes previously unawarded funds provided
under this heading in fiscal year 2018 by Pub-
lic Law 115–141 and funds provided under this
heading in this Act no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
120 days after enactment of this Act.
RESTORATION AND ENHANCEMENT
For necessary expenses related to Restora-
tion and Enhancement Grants, as authorized
by section 24408 of title 49, United States
Code, $5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary may
withhold up to one percent of the funds pro-
vided under this heading to fund the costs of
award and project management and over-
sight: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall issue the Notice of Funding Oppor-
tunity for funds provided under this heading
no later than 30 days after enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall announce the selection of projects to
receive awards for the funds in the previous
proviso no later than 120 days after enact-
ment of this Act.
MAGNETIC LEVITATION TECHNOLOGY
DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM
For necessary expenses related to the de-
ployment of magnetic levitation transpor-
tation projects, consistent with language in
1307(a) through (c) of Public Law 109–59, as
amended by section 102 of Public Law 110–244
(section 322 of title 23, United States Code),
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NORTHEAST CORRIDOR GRANTS TO THE
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the Northeast Corridor as author-
ized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $650,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 per-
cent of the funds provided under both this
heading and the ‘‘National Network Grants
to the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion’’ heading to fund the costs of project
management and oversight of activities au-
thorized by section 11101(c) of division A of
Public Law 114–94: Provided further, That in
addition to the project management over-
sight funds authorized under section 11101(c)
of division A of Public Law 114–94, the Sec-
retary may retain up to an additional
$5,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading to fund expenses associated with the
Northeast Corridor Commission established
under section 24905 of title 49, United States
Code: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading and the
‘‘National Network Grants to the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation’’ heading,
not less than $50,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to bring Amtrak-served facilities and
stations into compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
NATIONAL NETWORK GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL
RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the National Network as author-
ized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $1,291,600,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the Secretary may retain up to an addi-
tional $2,000,000 of the funds provided under
this heading to fund expenses associated
with the State-Supported Route Committee
established under section 24712 of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That at
least $50,000,000 of the amount provided
under this heading shall be available for the
development, installation and operation of
railroad safety technology, including the im-
plementation of a positive train control sys-
tem, on State-supported routes as defined
under section 24102(13) of title 49, United
States Code, on which positive train control
systems are not required by law or regula-
tion: Provided further, That not less than
$50,000,000 of the amount provided under this
heading shall be for capital expenses related
to safety improvements, maintenance, and
the non-Federal match for discretionary
Federal grant programs to enable continued
passenger rail operations on long-distance
routes (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code) on which Amtrak is the
sole operator on a host railroad’s line and a
positive train control system is not required
by law or regulation: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this head-
ing shall be used by Amtrak to give notice
under subsection (a) or (b) of section 24706 of
title 49, United States Code, with respect to
long-distance routes (as defined in section
24102 of title 49, United States Code) on
which Amtrak is the sole operator on a host
railroad’s line and a positive train control
system is not required by law or regulation,
or, except in an emergency or during mainte-
nance or construction outages impacting
such routes, to otherwise discontinue, reduce
the frequency of, suspend, or substantially
alter the route of rail service on any portion
of such route operated in fiscal year 2018, in-
cluding implementation of service permitted
by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United
States Code, in lieu of rail service.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 150. None of the funds provided to the
National Railroad Passenger Corporation
may be used to fund any overtime costs in
excess of $35,000 for any individual employee:
Provided, That the President of Amtrak may
waive the cap set in the previous proviso for
specific employees when the President of
Amtrak determines such a cap poses a risk
to the safety and operational efficiency of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S443
January 22, 2019
the system: Provided further, That the Presi-
dent of Amtrak shall report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations with-
in 60 days of enactment of this Act, a sum-
mary of all overtime payments incurred by
the Corporation for 2018 and the three prior
calendar years: Provided further, That such
summary shall include the total number of
employees that received waivers and the
total overtime payments the Corporation
paid to those employees receiving waivers
for each month for 2018 and for the three
prior calendar years.
SEC. 151. It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) long-distance passenger rail routes pro-
vide much-needed transportation access for
4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 40
States and are particularly important in
rural areas; and
(2) long-distance passenger rail routes and
services should be sustained to ensure
connectivity throughout the National Net-
work (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code).
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Federal Transit Administration’s pro-
grams authorized by chapter 53 of title 49,
United States Code, $113,165,000, of which up
to $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out
the provisions of section 5326 of such title:
Provided, That none of the funds provided or
limited in this Act may be used to create a
permanent office of transit security under
this heading: Provided further, That upon
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year
2020 President’s budget, the Secretary of
Transportation shall transmit to Congress
the annual report on New Starts, including
proposed allocations for fiscal year 2020.
TRANSIT FORMULA GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
Federal Public Transportation Assistance
Program in this account, and for payment of
obligations incurred in carrying out the pro-
visions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312,
5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340,
as amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, section 20005(b) of Pub-
lic Law 112–141, and section 3006(b) of the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $9,900,000,000, to be derived from the
Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust
Fund and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds available for
the implementation or execution of pro-
grams authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307,
5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337,
5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, sec-
tion 20005(b) of Public Law 112–141, and sec-
tion 3006(b) of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, shall not exceed total
obligations of $9,939,380,030 in fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That the Federal share
of the cost of activities carried out under 49
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 per-
cent, except that if there is substantial pub-
lic interest or benefit, the Secretary may ap-
prove a greater Federal share.
TRANSIT INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS
For an additional amount for buses and bus
facilities grants under section 5339 of title 49,
United States Code, state of good repair
grants under section 5337 of such title, for-
mula grants for rural areas under section
5311 of such title, high density state appor-
tionments under section 5340(d) of such title,
and the bus testing facilities under sections
5312 and 5318 of such title, $700,000,000 to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That $350,000,000 shall be available for grants
as authorized under section 5339 of such title,
of which $160,000,000 shall be available for the
buses and bus facilities formula grants as au-
thorized under section 5339(a) of such title,
$160,000,000 shall be available for the buses
and bus facilities competitive grants as au-
thorized under section 5339(b) of such title,
and $30,000,000 shall be available for the low
or no emission grants as authorized under
section 5339(c) of such title: Provided further,
That $263,000,000 shall be available for the
state of good repair grants as authorized
under section 5337 of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That $40,000,000 shall be available for
formula grants for rural areas as authorized
under section 5311 of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That $40,000,000 shall be available for
the high density state apportionments as au-
thorized under section 5340(d) of such title:
Provided further, That $1,000,000 shall be
available for the bus testing facility as au-
thorized under section 5318 of such title: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section
5318(a) of such title, $6,000,000 shall be avail-
able for the operation and maintenance of
bus testing facilities by institutions of high-
er education selected pursuant to section
5312(h) of such title: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall enter into a contract or
cooperative agreement with, or make a grant
to, each institution of higher education se-
lected pursuant to section 5312(h) of such
title, to operate and maintain a facility to
conduct the testing of low or no emission ve-
hicle new bus models using the standards es-
tablished pursuant to section 5318(e)(2) of
such title: Provided further, That the term
‘‘low or no emission vehicle’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 5312(e)(6) of
such title: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall pay 80 percent of the cost of
testing a low or no emission vehicle new bus
model at each selected institution of higher
education: Provided further, That the entity
having the vehicle tested shall pay 20 per-
cent of the cost of testing: Provided further,
That a low or no emission vehicle new bus
model tested that receives a passing aggre-
gate test score in accordance with the stand-
ards established under section 5318(e)(2) of
such title, shall be deemed to be in compli-
ance with the requirements of section 5318(e)
of such title: Provided further, That amounts
made available by this heading shall be de-
rived from the general fund: Provided further,
That the amounts made available under this
heading shall not be subject to any limita-
tion on obligations for transit programs set
forth in any Act.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out 49
U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000, of which not less than
$1,500,000 shall be for a cooperative agree-
ment through which the Federal Transit Ad-
ministration assists small-urban, rural and
tribal public transit recipients and planning
organizations with applied innovation and
capacity-building: Provided, That the assist-
ance provided under this heading not dupli-
cate the activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49
U.S.C. 5312.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out fixed
guideway capital investment grants under
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, $2,552,687,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2022:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, $2,169,783,950 shall be
obligated by December 31, 2020: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, $1,265,670,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(d) of title 49, United States Code,
$635,000,000 shall be available for projects au-
thorized under section 5309(e) of title 49,
United States Code, $526,500,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(h) of title 49, United States Code,
and $100,000,000 shall be available for projects
authorized under section 3005(b) of the Fix-
ing America’s Surface Transportation Act:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
continue to administer the capital invest-
ment grants program in accordance with the
procedural and substantive requirements of
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act.
GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN
AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY
For grants to the Washington Metropoli-
tan Area Transit Authority as authorized
under section 601 of division B of Public Law
110–432, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of
Transportation shall approve grants for cap-
ital and preventive maintenance expendi-
tures for the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority only after receiving and
reviewing a request for each specific project:
Provided further, That prior to approving
such grants, the Secretary shall certify that
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit
Authority is making progress to improve its
safety management system in response to
the Federal Transit Administration’s 2015
safety management inspection: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall determine
that the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority has placed the highest pri-
ority on those investments that will improve
the safety of the system before approving
such grants: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary, in order to ensure safety throughout
the rail system, may waive the requirements
of section 601(e)(1) of division B of Public
Law 110–432.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
SEC. 160. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the Federal Transit Admin-
istration shall not apply to any authority
under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made avail-
able for obligation, or to any other authority
previously made available for obligation.
SEC. 161. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated or limited by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Fixed Guideway
Capital Investment’’ of the Federal Transit
Administration for projects specified in this
Act or identified in reports accompanying
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2022,
and other recoveries, shall be directed to
projects eligible to use the funds for the pur-
poses for which they were originally pro-
vided.
SEC. 162. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any funds appropriated before
October 1, 2018, under any section of chapter
53 of title 49, United States Code, that re-
main available for expenditure, may be
transferred to and administered under the
most recent appropriation heading for any
such section.
SEC. 163. (a) Except as provided in sub-
section (b), none of the funds in this or any
other Act may be available to advance in
any way a new light or heavy rail project to-
wards a full funding grant agreement as de-
fined by 49 U.S.C. 5309 for the Metropolitan
Transit Authority of Harris County, Texas if
the proposed capital project is constructed
on or planned to be constructed on Rich-
mond Avenue west of South Shepherd Drive
or on Post Oak Boulevard north of Richmond
Avenue in Houston, Texas.
(b) The Metropolitan Transit Authority of
Harris County, Texas, may attempt to con-
struct or construct a new fixed guideway
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S444 January 22, 2019
capital project, including light rail, in the
locations referred to in subsection (a) if—
(1) voters in the jurisdiction that includes
such locations approve a ballot proposition
that specifies routes on Richmond Avenue
west of South Shepherd Drive or on Post Oak
Boulevard north of Richmond Avenue in
Houston, Texas; and
(2) the proposed construction of such
routes is part of a comprehensive, multi-
modal, service-area wide transportation plan
that includes multiple additional segments
of fixed guideway capital projects, including
light rail for the jurisdiction set forth in the
ballot proposition. The ballot language shall
include reasonable cost estimates, sources of
revenue to be used and the total amount of
bonded indebtedness to be incurred as well as
a description of each route and the beginning
and end point of each proposed transit
project.
SEC. 164. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used to enter into a full
funding grant agreement for a project with a
New Starts share greater than 51 percent.
SEC. 165. Of the unobligated amounts made
available for fiscal years 2005 or prior fiscal
years to ‘‘Transit Formula Grants’’, a total
of $46,560,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded.
SEC. 166. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used for the imple-
mentation or furtherance of new policies de-
tailed in the ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ letter distrib-
uted by the Federal Transit Administration
to capital investment grant program project
sponsors on June 29, 2018.
SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development
Corporation is hereby authorized to make
such expenditures, within the limits of funds
and borrowing authority available to the
Corporation, and in accord with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 104 of the Government Cor-
poration Control Act, as amended, as may be
necessary in carrying out the programs set
forth in the Corporation’s budget for the cur-
rent fiscal year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
(HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses to conduct the op-
erations, maintenance, and capital asset re-
newal activities on those portions of the
Saint Lawrence Seaway owned, operated,
and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Sea-
way Development Corporation, $36,000,000, to
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99–662:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, not less than
$16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset re-
newal activities.
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to maintain and
preserve a U.S.-flag merchant fleet to serve
the national security needs of the United
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
OPERATIONS AND TRAINING
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of operations and
training activities authorized by law,
$149,442,000, of which $70,593,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020 for the op-
erations of the United States Merchant Ma-
rine Academy, and of which $18,000,000 shall
remain available until expended for the
maintenance and repair, equipment, and cap-
ital improvements at the United States Mer-
chant Marine Academy: Provided, That not
later than January 12, 2019, the Adminis-
trator of the Maritime Administration shall
transmit to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations the annual report on
sexual assault and sexual harassment at the
United States Merchant Marine Academy as
required pursuant to section 3507 of Public
Law 110–417: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$3,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020 for the Maritime Environ-
ment and Technology Assistance program
authorized under section 50307 of title 46,
United States Code: Provided further, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing, $7,000,000, shall remain available until
expended for the Short Sea Transportation
Program (America’s Marine Highways) to
make grants for the purposes authorized
under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46,
United States Code: Provided further, That
available balances under this heading for the
Short Sea Transportation Program (Amer-
ica’s Marine Highways) from prior year re-
coveries shall be available to carry out ac-
tivities authorized under sections 55601(b)(1)
and (3) of title 46, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That from funds provided under
the previous two provisos, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make grants no later
than 180 days after enactment of this Act in
such amounts as the Secretary determines:
Provided further, That any unobligated bal-
ances available from previous appropriations
for programs and activities supporting State
Maritime Academies shall be transferred to
and merged with the appropriations for
‘‘Maritime Administration, State Maritime
Academy Operations’’ and shall be made
available for the same purposes.
STATE MARITIME ACADEMY OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of operations, sup-
port and training activities for State Mari-
time Academies, $345,200,000, of which
$25,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for maintenance, repair, life
extension, and capacity improvement of Na-
tional Defense Reserve Fleet training ships
in support of State Maritime Academies, of
which $8,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for expenses related to
training mariners for costs associated with
training vessel sharing pursuant to 46 U.S.C.
51504(g)(3) for costs associated with mobi-
lizing, operating and demobilizing the vessel,
including travel costs for students, faculty
and crew, the costs of the general agent,
crew costs, fuel, insurance, operational fees,
and vessel hire costs, as determined by the
Secretary, of which $300,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Security Multi-Mission Vessel Pro-
gram, including funds for construction, plan-
ning, administration, and design of school
ships, of which $2,400,000 shall remain avail-
able through September 30, 2020, for the Stu-
dent Incentive Program, of which $3,800,000
shall remain available until expended for
training ship fuel assistance, and of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for direct payments for State
Maritime Academies.
ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS
To make grants to qualified shipyards as
authorized under section 54101 of title 46,
United States Code, as amended by Public
Law 113–281, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
SHIP DISPOSAL
For necessary expenses related to the dis-
posal of obsolete vessels in the National De-
fense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Admin-
istration, $5,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI)
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the guaranteed loan program, $3,000,000,
which shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriations for ‘‘Operations and
Training’’, Maritime Administration.
PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
To make grants to improve port facilities
as authorized under section 50302 of title 46,
United States Code, $200,000,000 to remain
available until expended: Provided, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall be projects for coastal sea-
ports: Provided further, That in addition,
$92,730,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for grants to the 15 coastal
seaports that handled the greatest number of
loaded foreign and domestic twenty-foot
equivalent units of containerized cargo in
2016, as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers: Provided further, That the Mari-
time Administration shall distribute funds
provided under this heading as discretionary
grants to port authorities or commissions or
their subdivisions and agents under existing
authority, as well as to a State or political
subdivision of a State or local government, a
tribal government, a public agency or pub-
licly chartered authority established by one
or more States, a special purpose district
with a transportation function, a multistate
or multijurisdictional group of entities, or a
lead entity described above jointly with a
private entity or group of private entities:
Provided further, That projects eligible for
funding provided under this heading shall be
either within the boundary of a port, or out-
side the boundary of a port, and directly re-
lated to port operations or to an intermodal
connection to a port that will improve the
safety, efficiency, or reliability of the move-
ment of goods into, out of, around, or within
a port, as well as the unloading and loading
of cargo at a port: Provided further, That in
awarding grants from funds made available
by the second proviso under this heading for
the 15 coastal seaports referred to, the Mari-
time Administration shall give priority con-
sideration for proposed projects that con-
struct treatment facilities defined in section
305.1 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations,
to meet the phytosanitary treatment re-
quirements of sections 305.5 through 305.8 of
title 7, Code of Federal Regulations: Provided
further, That the Federal share of the costs
for which an expenditure is made under this
heading shall be up to 80 percent: Provided
further, That not to exceed 2 percent of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for necessary costs of grant ad-
ministration: Provided further, That the pro-
ceeds of Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad and
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of
1976 (Public Law 94–210), as amended, shall be
considered to be part of the non-Federal
share of project costs if the loan is repayable
from non-Federal funds, unless otherwise re-
quested by the project sponsor.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 170. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, in addition to any existing
authority, the Maritime Administration is
authorized to furnish utilities and services
and make necessary repairs in connection
with any lease, contract, or occupancy in-
volving Government property under control
of the Maritime Administration: Provided,
That payments received therefor shall be
credited to the appropriation charged with
the cost thereof and shall remain available
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S445
January 22, 2019
until expended: Provided further, That rental
payments under any such lease, contract, or
occupancy for items other than such utili-
ties, services, or repairs shall be covered into
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
For necessary operational expenses of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $23,710,000: Provided, That the
Secretary of Transportation shall issue a
final rule to expand the applicability of com-
prehensive oil spill response plans within 90
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That the amounts appropriated under
this heading shall be reduced by $10,000 per
day for each day that such rule has not been
issued following the expiration of the period
set forth in the previous proviso.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
For expenses necessary to discharge the
hazardous materials safety functions of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $58,000,000, of which $7,570,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees col-
lected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be depos-
ited in the general fund of the Treasury as
offsetting receipts: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
to be available until expended, funds re-
ceived from States, counties, municipalities,
other public authorities, and private sources
for expenses incurred for training, for re-
ports publication and dissemination, and for
travel expenses incurred in performance of
hazardous materials exemptions and approv-
als functions.
PIPELINE SAFETY
(PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)
(OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out a pipe-
line safety program, as authorized by 49
U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990, $165,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021, of which $23,000,000
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund; of which $134,000,000 shall be de-
rived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; and of
which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees
collected under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited
in the Underground Natural Gas Storage Fa-
cility Safety Account for the purpose of car-
rying out 49 U.S.C. 60141: Provided, That not
less than $1,058,000 of the funds provided
under this heading shall be for the One-Call
State grant program.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS
(EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Emergency Preparedness Grants program,
not more than $28,318,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021, from amounts
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), and
5128(b) and (c): Provided, That notwith-
standing 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not more than 4
percent of the amounts made available from
this account shall be available to pay admin-
istrative costs: Provided further, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the
current year obligation limitation, prior
year recoveries recognized in the current
year shall be available to develop a haz-
ardous materials response training cur-
riculum for emergency responders, including
response activities for the transportation of
crude oil, ethanol and other flammable liq-
uids by rail, consistent with National Fire
Protection Association standards, and to
make such training available through an
electronic format: Provided further, That the
prior year recoveries made available under
this heading shall also be available to carry
out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 5116(i).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Inspector General to carry out the provisions
of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $92,600,000: Provided, That the In-
spector General shall have all necessary au-
thority, in carrying out the duties specified
in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of
fraud, including false statements to the gov-
ernment (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any person or en-
tity that is subject to regulation by the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading may be used to investigate, pursu-
ant to section 41712 of title 49, United States
Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and
unfair methods of competition by domestic
and foreign air carriers and ticket agents;
and (2) the compliance of domestic and for-
eign air carriers with respect to item (1) of
this proviso.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year,
applicable appropriations to the Department
of Transportation shall be available for
maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
purchase of liability insurance for motor ve-
hicles operating in foreign countries on offi-
cial department business; and uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5901–5902).
(b) During the current fiscal year, applica-
ble appropriations to the Department and its
operating administrations shall be available
for the purchase, maintenance, operation,
and deployment of unmanned aircraft sys-
tems that advance the Department’s, or its
operating administrations’, missions.
(c) Any unmanned aircraft system pur-
chased or procured by the Department prior
to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed
authorized.
SEC. 181. Appropriations contained in this
Act for the Department of Transportation
shall be available for services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to
the rate for an Executive Level IV.
SEC. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made
available in this Act shall disseminate per-
sonal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of
motor vehicles in connection with a motor
vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1),
except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use
permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the
Secretary shall not withhold funds provided
in this Act for any grantee if a State is in
noncompliance with this provision.
SEC. 183. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than 125 political and Presidential ap-
pointees in the Department of Transpor-
tation: Provided, That none of the personnel
covered by this provision may be assigned on
temporary detail outside the Department of
Transportation.
SEC. 184. Funds received by the Federal
Highway Administration and Federal Rail-
road Administration from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training may be credited respectively to the
Federal Highway Administration’s ‘‘Federal-
Aid Highways’’ account and to the Federal
Railroad Administration’s ‘‘Safety and Oper-
ations’’ account, except for State rail safety
inspectors participating in training pursuant
to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
SEC. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in
this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be used to make a loan, loan
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary
grant unless the Secretary of Transportation
notifies the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations not less than 3 full busi-
ness days before any project competitively
selected to receive any discretionary grant
award, letter of intent, loan commitment,
loan guarantee commitment, line of credit
commitment, or full funding grant agree-
ment is announced by the Department or its
modal administrations: Provided, That the
Secretary gives concurrent notification to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations for any ‘‘quick release’’ of funds
from the emergency relief program: Provided
further, That no notification shall involve
funds that are not available for obligation.
(b) In addition to the notification required
in subsection (a), none of the funds made
available in this Act to the Department of
Transportation may be used to make a loan,
loan guarantee, line of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grant unless the
Secretary of Transportation provides the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions a comprehensive list of all such loans,
loan guarantees, lines of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grants that will
be announced not less the 3 full business
days before such announcement: Provided,
That the requirement to provide a list in
this subsection does not apply to any ‘‘quick
release’’ of funds from the emergency relief
program: Provided further, That no list shall
involve funds that are not available for obli-
gation.
SEC. 186. Rebates, refunds, incentive pay-
ments, minor fees and other funds received
by the Department of Transportation from
travel management centers, charge card pro-
grams, the subleasing of building space, and
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to
appropriations of the Department of Trans-
portation and allocated to elements of the
Department of Transportation using fair and
equitable criteria and such funds shall be
available until expended.
SEC. 187. Amounts made available in this
or any prior Act that the Secretary deter-
mines represent improper payments by the
Department of Transportation to a third-
party contractor under a financial assistance
award, which are recovered pursuant to law,
shall be available—
(1) to reimburse the actual expenses in-
curred by the Department of Transportation
in recovering improper payments: Provided,
That amounts made available in this Act
shall be available until expended; and
(2) to pay contractors for services provided
in recovering improper payments or con-
tractor support in the implementation of the
Improper Payments Information Act of 2002,
as amended by the Improper Payments
Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 and
Improper Payments Elimination and Recov-
ery Improvement Act of 2012, and Fraud Re-
duction and Data Analytics Act of 2015: Pro-
vided, That amounts in excess of that re-
quired for paragraphs (1) and (2)—
(A) shall be credited to and merged with
the appropriation from which the improper
payments were made, and shall be available
for the purposes and period for which such
appropriations are available: Provided fur-
ther, That where specific project or account-
ing information associated with the im-
proper payment or payments is not readily
available, the Secretary may credit an ap-
propriate account, which shall be available
for the purposes and period associated with
the account so credited; or
(B) if no such appropriation remains avail-
able, shall be deposited in the Treasury as
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That prior to depositing such recovery in the
Treasury, the Secretary shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of the amount and reasons for such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S446 January 22, 2019
transfer: Provided further, That for purposes
of this section, the term ‘‘improper pay-
ments’’ has the same meaning as that pro-
vided in section 2(e)(2) of Public Law 111–204.
SEC. 188. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, if any funds provided in or lim-
ited by this Act are subject to a reprogram-
ming action that requires notice to be pro-
vided to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations, transmission of said re-
programming notice shall be provided solely
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations, and said reprogramming action
shall be approved or denied solely by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That the Secretary of Trans-
portation may provide notice to other con-
gressional committees of the action of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions on such reprogramming but not sooner
than 30 days following the date on which the
reprogramming action has been approved or
denied by the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 189. Funds appropriated in this Act to
the modal administrations may be obligated
for the Office of the Secretary for the costs
related to assessments or reimbursable
agreements only when such amounts are for
the costs of goods and services that are pur-
chased to provide a direct benefit to the ap-
plicable modal administration or adminis-
trations.
SEC. 190. The Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to carry out a program that es-
tablishes uniform standards for developing
and supporting agency transit pass and tran-
sit benefits authorized under section 7905 of
title 5, United States Code, including dis-
tribution of transit benefits by various paper
and electronic media.
SEC. 191. The Department of Transpor-
tation may use funds provided by this Act, or
any other Act, to assist a contract under
title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geo-
graphic, economic, or any other hiring pref-
erence not otherwise authorized by law, or to
amend a rule, regulation, policy or other
measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal
Highway Administration or Federal Transit
Administration grant from imposing such
hiring preference on a contract or construc-
tion project with which the Department of
Transportation is assisting, only if the grant
recipient certifies the following:
(1) that except with respect to apprentices
or trainees, a pool of readily available but
unemployed individuals possessing the
knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the
work that the contract requires resides in
the jurisdiction;
(2) that the grant recipient will include ap-
propriate provisions in its bid document en-
suring that the contractor does not displace
any of its existing employees in order to sat-
isfy such hiring preference; and
(3) that any increase in the cost of labor,
training, or delays resulting from the use of
such hiring preference does not delay or dis-
place any transportation project in the ap-
plicable Statewide Transportation Improve-
ment Program or Transportation Improve-
ment Program.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ex-
ecutive Offices, which shall be comprised of
the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Sec-
retary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional
and Intergovernmental Relations, Public Af-
fairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Uti-
lization, and the Center for Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,900,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the
amount made available under this heading
shall be available to the Secretary for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses as
the Secretary may determine.
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ad-
ministrative Support Offices, $541,500,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020, of
which $70,400,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Financial Officer, (and of
which $20,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021, shall be for the financial
transformation initiative); $97,800,000 shall
be available for the Office of the General
Counsel, of which not less than $15,000,000
shall be for the Departmental Enforcement
Center; $206,300,000 shall be available for the
Office of Administration; $40,400,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Chief Human
Capital Officer; $54,300,000 shall be available
for the Office of Field Policy and Manage-
ment; $19,100,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Procurement Officer;
$3,800,000 shall be available for the Office of
Departmental Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity; $4,700,000 shall be available for the
Office of Business Transformation; and
$44,700,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That
funds provided under this heading may be
used for necessary administrative and non-
administrative expenses of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, not oth-
erwise provided for, including purchase of
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; and services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated under this heading may be used
for advertising and promotional activities
that directly support program activities
funded in this title: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall provide the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations quar-
terly written notification regarding the sta-
tus of pending congressional reports: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall pro-
vide in electronic form all signed reports re-
quired by Congress: Provided further, That
not more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for the Office of
Chief Financial Officer for the financial
transformation initiative may be obligated
until the Secretary submits to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations, for
approval, a plan for expenditure that in-
cludes the financial and internal control ca-
pabilities to be delivered and the mission
benefits to be realized, key milestones to be
met, and the relationship between the pro-
posed use of funds made available under this
heading and the projected total cost and
scope of the initiative.
PROGRAM OFFICE SALARIES AND EXPENSES
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Public and Indian Housing,
$219,800,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Community Planning and Develop-
ment, $112,344,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Housing, $382,500,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be for the Of-
fice of Recapitalization.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Policy Development and Research,
$26,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Fair Housing and Equal Oppor-
tunity, $72,900,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy
Homes, $8,600,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the working capital fund for the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
(referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘Fund’’), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts
transferred, including reimbursements pur-
suant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this
heading shall be available for Federal shared
services used by offices and agencies of the
Department, and for such portion of any of-
fice or agency’s printing, records manage-
ment, space renovation, furniture, or supply
services as the Secretary determines shall be
derived from centralized sources made avail-
able by the Department to all offices and
agencies and funded through the Fund: Pro-
vided, That of the amounts made available in
this title for salaries and expenses under the
headings ‘‘Executive Offices’’, ‘‘Administra-
tive Support Offices’’, ‘‘Program Office Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, and ‘‘Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association’’, the Secretary
shall transfer to the Fund such amounts, to
remain available until expended, as are nec-
essary to fund services, specified in the mat-
ter preceding the first proviso, for which the
appropriation would otherwise have been
available, and may transfer not to exceed an
additional $5,000,000, in aggregate, from all
such appropriations, to be merged with the
Fund and to remain available until expended
for any purpose under this heading: Provided
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be
the only amounts available to each office or
agency of the Department for the services, or
portion of services, specified in the matter
preceding the first proviso: Provided further,
That with respect to the Fund, the authori-
ties and conditions under this heading shall
supplement the authorities and conditions
provided under section 7(f).
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of tenant-based rental assistance au-
thorized under the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et
seq.) (‘‘the Act’’ herein), not otherwise pro-
vided for, $18,598,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2018 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 pre-
viously appropriated under this heading that
shall be available on October 1, 2018), and
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be available on October 1, 2019:
Provided, That the amounts made available
under this heading are provided as follows:
(1) $20,313,000,000 shall be available for re-
newals of expiring section 8 tenant-based an-
nual contributions contracts (including re-
newals of enhanced vouchers under any pro-
vision of law authorizing such assistance
under section 8(t) of the Act) and including
renewal of other special purpose incremental
vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, from amounts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S447
January 22, 2019
provided under this paragraph and any car-
ryover, the Secretary for the calendar year
2019 funding cycle shall provide renewal
funding for each public housing agency based
on validated voucher management system
(VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior cal-
endar year and by applying an inflation fac-
tor as established by the Secretary, by no-
tice published in the Federal Register, and
by making any necessary adjustments for
the costs associated with the first-time re-
newal of vouchers under this paragraph in-
cluding tenant protection and Choice Neigh-
borhoods vouchers: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this para-
graph may be used to fund a total number of
unit months under lease which exceeds a
public housing agency’s authorized level of
units under contract, except for public hous-
ing agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration, which are instead governed by
the terms and conditions of their MTW
agreements: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent necessary to stay
within the amount specified under this para-
graph (except as otherwise modified under
this paragraph), prorate each public housing
agency’s allocation otherwise established
pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further,
That except as provided in the following pro-
visos, the entire amount specified under this
paragraph (except as otherwise modified
under this paragraph) shall be obligated to
the public housing agencies based on the al-
location and pro rata method described
above, and the Secretary shall notify public
housing agencies of their annual budget by
the latter of 60 days after enactment of this
Act or March 1, 2019: Provided further, That
the Secretary may extend the notification
period with the prior written approval of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That public housing
agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration shall be funded pursuant to their
MTW agreements and shall be subject to the
same pro rata adjustments under the pre-
vious provisos: Provided further, That the
Secretary may offset public housing agen-
cies’ calendar year 2019 allocations based on
the excess amounts of public housing agen-
cies’ net restricted assets accounts, includ-
ing HUD-held programmatic reserves (in ac-
cordance with VMS data in calendar year
2018 that is verifiable and complete), as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That public housing agencies participating
in the MTW demonstration shall also be sub-
ject to the offset, as determined by the Sec-
retary, excluding amounts subject to the sin-
gle fund budget authority provisions of their
MTW agreements, from the agencies’ cal-
endar year 2019 MTW funding allocation: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall use
any offset referred to in the previous two
provisos throughout the calendar year to
prevent the termination of rental assistance
for families as the result of insufficient fund-
ing, as determined by the Secretary, and to
avoid or reduce the proration of renewal
funding allocations: Provided further, That up
to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for
adjustments in the allocations for public
housing agencies, after application for an ad-
justment by a public housing agency that ex-
perienced a significant increase, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, in renewal costs of
vouchers resulting from unforeseen cir-
cumstances or from portability under sec-
tion 8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that
were not in use during the previous 12-month
period in order to be available to meet a
commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of
the Act; (3) for adjustments for costs associ-
ated with HUD–Veterans Affairs Supportive
Housing (HUD–VASH) vouchers; and (4) for
public housing agencies that despite taking
reasonable cost savings measures, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, would otherwise be
required to terminate rental assistance for
families as a result of insufficient funding:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall al-
locate amounts under the previous proviso
based on need, as determined by the Sec-
retary;
(2) $85,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental
assistance for relocation and replacement of
housing units that are demolished or dis-
posed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act,
conversion of section 23 projects to assist-
ance under section 8, the family unification
program under section 8(x) of the Act, relo-
cation of witnesses in connection with ef-
forts to combat crime in public and assisted
housing pursuant to a request from a law en-
forcement or prosecution agency, enhanced
vouchers under any provision of law author-
izing such assistance under section 8(t) of
the Act, Choice Neighborhood vouchers,
mandatory and voluntary conversions, and
tenant protection assistance including re-
placement and relocation assistance or for
project-based assistance to prevent the dis-
placement of unassisted elderly tenants cur-
rently residing in section 202 properties fi-
nanced between 1959 and 1974 that are refi-
nanced pursuant to Public Law 106–569, as
amended, or under the authority as provided
under this Act: Provided, That when a public
housing development is submitted for demo-
lition or disposition under section 18 of the
Act, the Secretary may provide section 8
rental assistance when the units pose an im-
minent health and safety risk to residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary may
only provide replacement vouchers for units
that were occupied within the previous 24
months that cease to be available as assisted
housing, subject only to the availability of
funds: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this paragraph,
$5,000,000 may be available to provide tenant
protection assistance, not otherwise pro-
vided under this paragraph, to residents re-
siding in low vacancy areas and who may
have to pay rents greater than 30 percent of
household income, as the result of: (A) the
maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or sec-
tion 202 loan that requires the permission of
the Secretary prior to loan prepayment; (B)
the expiration of a rental assistance contract
for which the tenants are not eligible for en-
hanced voucher or tenant protection assist-
ance under existing law; or (C) the expiration
of affordability restrictions accompanying a
mortgage or preservation program adminis-
tered by the Secretary: Provided further,
That such tenant protection assistance made
available under the previous proviso may be
provided under the authority of section 8(t)
or section 8(o)(13) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)): Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue guid-
ance to implement the previous provisos, in-
cluding, but not limited to, requirements for
defining eligible at-risk households within 60
days of the enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That any tenant protection voucher
made available from amounts under this
paragraph shall not be reissued by any public
housing agency, except the replacement
vouchers as defined by the Secretary by no-
tice, when the initial family that received
any such voucher no longer receives such
voucher, and the authority for any public
housing agency to issue any such voucher
shall cease to exist: Provided further, That
the Secretary may provide section 8 rental
assistance from amounts made available
under this paragraph for units assisted under
a project-based subsidy contract funded
under the ‘‘Project-Based Rental Assistance’’
heading under this title where the owner has
received a Notice of Default and the units
pose an imminent health and safety risk to
residents: Provided further, That to the ex-
tent that the Secretary determines that such
units are not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments or transfer of the sub-
sidy contract associated with such units to
another project or projects and owner or
owners, any remaining amounts associated
with such units under such contract shall be
recaptured and used to reimburse amounts
used under this paragraph for rental assist-
ance under the preceding proviso;
(3) $1,886,000,000 shall be for administrative
and other expenses of public housing agen-
cies in administering the section 8 tenant-
based rental assistance program, of which up
to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Sec-
retary to allocate to public housing agencies
that need additional funds to administer
their section 8 programs, including fees asso-
ciated with section 8 tenant protection rent-
al assistance, the administration of disaster
related vouchers, HUD–VASH vouchers, and
other special purpose incremental vouchers:
Provided, That no less than $1,856,000,000 of
the amount provided in this paragraph shall
be allocated to public housing agencies for
the calendar year 2019 funding cycle based on
section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appro-
priation Act provisions) as in effect imme-
diately before the enactment of the Quality
Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998
(Public Law 105–276): Provided further, That if
the amounts made available under this para-
graph are insufficient to pay the amounts de-
termined under the previous proviso, the
Secretary may decrease the amounts allo-
cated to agencies by a uniform percentage
applicable to all agencies receiving funding
under this paragraph or may, to the extent
necessary to provide full payment of
amounts determined under the previous pro-
viso, utilize unobligated balances, including
recaptures and carryovers, remaining from
funds appropriated to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development under this
heading from prior fiscal years, excluding
special purpose vouchers, notwithstanding
the purposes for which such amounts were
appropriated: Provided further, That all pub-
lic housing agencies participating in the
MTW demonstration shall be funded pursu-
ant to their MTW agreements, and shall be
subject to the same uniform percentage de-
crease as under the previous proviso: Pro-
vided further, That amounts provided under
this paragraph shall be only for activities re-
lated to the provision of tenant-based rental
assistance authorized under section 8, in-
cluding related development activities;
(4) $225,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-
based assistance contracts under section 811
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including
necessary administrative expenses: Provided,
That administrative and other expenses of
public housing agencies in administering the
special purpose vouchers in this paragraph
shall be funded under the same terms and be
subject to the same pro rata reduction as the
percent decrease for administrative and
other expenses to public housing agencies
under paragraph (3) of this heading: Provided
further, That any amounts provided under
this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, re-
maining available after funding renewals and
administrative expenses under this para-
graph, shall be available only for incre-
mental tenant-based rental assistance con-
tracts under such section 811 for non-elderly
persons with disabilities, including nec-
essary administrative expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That upon turnover, section 811 special
purpose vouchers funded under this heading
in this or prior Acts, or under any other
heading in prior Acts, shall be provided to
non-elderly persons with disabilities;
(5) $4,000,000 shall be for rental assistance
and associated administrative fees for Tribal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S448 January 22, 2019
HUD–VASH to serve Native American vet-
erans that are homeless or at-risk of home-
lessness living on or near a reservation or
other Indian areas: Provided, That such
amount shall be made available for renewal
grants to recipients that received assistance
under prior Acts under the Tribal HUD–
VASH program: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall be authorized to specify cri-
teria for renewal grants, including data on
the utilization of assistance reported by
grant recipients: Provided further, That such
assistance shall be administered in accord-
ance with program requirements under the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 and modeled
after the HUD–VASH program: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall be authorized
to waive, or specify alternative requirements
for any provision of any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers in con-
nection with the use of funds made available
under this paragraph (except for require-
ments related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the en-
vironment), upon a finding by the Secretary
that any such waivers or alternative require-
ments are necessary for the effective deliv-
ery and administration of such assistance:
Provided further, That grant recipients shall
report to the Secretary on utilization of such
rental assistance and other program data, as
prescribed by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary may reallocate, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, amounts returned
or recaptured from awards under prior acts;
(6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental vouch-
er assistance for use through a supported
housing program administered in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall make such funding
available, notwithstanding section 203 (com-
petition provision) of this title, to public
housing agencies that partner with eligible
VA Medical Centers or other entities as des-
ignated by the Secretary of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical
need for such assistance as identified by the
Secretary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, public housing agency administrative
performance, and other factors as specified
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment in consultation with the Sec-
retary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development may waive,
or specify alternative requirements for (in
consultation with the Secretary of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs), any provision
of any statute or regulation that the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
administers in connection with the use of
funds made available under this paragraph
(except for requirements related to fair hous-
ing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and
the environment), upon a finding by the Sec-
retary that any such waivers or alternative
requirements are necessary for the effective
delivery and administration of such voucher
assistance: Provided further, That assistance
made available under this paragraph shall
continue to remain available for homeless
veterans upon turn-over;
(7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for
new incremental voucher assistance through
the family unification program as authorized
by section 8(x) of the Act: Provided, That the
assistance made available under this para-
graph shall continue to remain available for
family unification upon turnover: Provided
further, That for any public housing agency
administering voucher assistance appro-
priated in a prior Act under the family unifi-
cation program that determines that it no
longer has an identified need for such assist-
ance upon turnover, such agency shall notify
the Secretary, and the Secretary shall recap-
ture such assistance from the agency and re-
allocate it to any other public housing agen-
cy or agencies based on need for voucher as-
sistance in connection with such program;
(8) $25,000,000 shall be made available for
the mobility demonstration authorized
under section 235 of this title, of which up to
$5,000,000 shall be for new incremental vouch-
er assistance and the remainder of which
shall be available to provide mobility-related
services to families with children, including
pre- and post-move counseling and rent de-
posits, and to offset the administrative costs
of operating the mobility demonstration:
Provided, That incremental voucher assist-
ance made available under this paragraph
shall be for families with children partici-
pating in the mobility demonstration and
shall continue to remain available for fami-
lies with children upon turnover: Provided
further, That for any public housing agency
administering voucher assistance under the
mobility demonstration that determines
that it no longer has an identified need for
such assistance upon turnover, such agency
shall notify the Secretary, and the Secretary
shall recapture such assistance from the
agency and reallocate it to any other public
housing agency or agencies based on need for
voucher assistance in connection with such
demonstration; and
(9) the Secretary shall separately track all
special purpose vouchers funded under this
heading.
HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
Unobligated balances, including recaptures
and carryover, remaining from funds appro-
priated to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development under this heading, the
heading ‘‘Annual Contributions for Assisted
Housing’’ and the heading ‘‘Project-Based
Rental Assistance’’, for fiscal year 2019 and
prior years may be used for renewal of or
amendments to section 8 project-based con-
tracts and for performance-based contract
administrators, notwithstanding the pur-
poses for which such funds were appro-
priated: Provided, That any obligated bal-
ances of contract authority from fiscal year
1974 and prior that have been terminated
shall be rescinded: Provided further, That
amounts heretofore recaptured, or recap-
tured during the current fiscal year, from
section 8 project-based contracts from source
years fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1987
are hereby rescinded, and an amount of addi-
tional new budget authority, equivalent to
the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated,
to remain available until expended, for the
purposes set forth under this heading, in ad-
dition to amounts otherwise available.
PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND
For the Public Housing Capital Fund Pro-
gram to carry out capital and management
activities for public housing agencies, as au-
thorized under section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the
‘‘Act’’) $2,775,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, during fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
may not delegate to any Department official
other than the Deputy Secretary and the As-
sistant Secretary for Public and Indian
Housing any authority under paragraph (2)
of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the
time periods under such section: Provided
further, That for purposes of such section
9(j), the term ‘‘obligate’’ means, with respect
to amounts, that the amounts are subject to
a binding agreement that will result in out-
lays, immediately or in the future: Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading, up to $14,000,000
shall be to support ongoing public housing fi-
nancial and physical assessment activities:
Provided further, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, up to
$1,000,000 shall be to support the costs of ad-
ministrative and judicial receiverships: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount pro-
vided under this heading, not to exceed
$30,000,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to make grants, notwithstanding sec-
tion 203 of this Act, to public housing agen-
cies for emergency capital needs including
safety and security measures necessary to
address crime and drug-related activity as
well as needs resulting from unforeseen or
unpreventable emergencies and natural dis-
asters excluding Presidentially declared
emergencies and natural disasters under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in
fiscal year 2019: Provided further, That of the
amount made available under the previous
proviso, not less than $10,000,000 shall be for
safety and security measures: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition to the amount in the
previous proviso for such safety and security
measures, any amounts that remain avail-
able, after all applications received on or be-
fore September 30, 2020, for emergency cap-
ital needs have been processed, shall be allo-
cated to public housing agencies for such
safety and security measures: Provided fur-
ther, That of the total amount provided
under this heading, up to $35,000,000 shall be
for supportive services, service coordinators
and congregate services as authorized by sec-
tion 34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z–6) and the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.): Provided further, That of the total
amount made available under this heading,
$15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative
modeled after the Jobs-Plus demonstration:
Provided further, That funding provided under
the previous proviso shall be available for
competitive grants to partnerships between
public housing authorities, local workforce
investment boards established under section
107 of the Workforce Innovation and Oppor-
tunity Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other
agencies and organizations that provide sup-
port to help public housing residents obtain
employment and increase earnings: Provided
further, That applicants must demonstrate
the ability to provide services to residents,
partner with workforce investment boards,
and leverage service dollars: Provided further,
That the Secretary may allow public housing
agencies to request exemptions from rent
and income limitation requirements under
sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a and 1437d), as nec-
essary to implement the Jobs-Plus program,
on such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may approve upon a finding by the
Secretary that any such waivers or alter-
native requirements are necessary for the ef-
fective implementation of the Jobs-Plus ini-
tiative as a voluntary program for residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
publish by notice in the Federal Register any
waivers or alternative requirements pursu-
ant to the preceding proviso no later than 10
days before the effective date of such notice:
Provided further, That for funds provided
under this heading, the limitation in section
9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 percent: Provided
further, That the Secretary may waive the
limitation in the previous proviso to allow
public housing agencies to fund activities
authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall notify public housing agencies request-
ing waivers under the previous proviso if the
request is approved or denied within 14 days
of submitting the request: Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S449
January 22, 2019
That from the funds made available under
this heading, the Secretary shall provide
bonus awards in fiscal year 2019 to public
housing agencies that are designated high
performers: Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify public housing agen-
cies of their formula allocation within 60
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That of the total amount provided
under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be avail-
able for competitive grants to public housing
agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based
paint hazards in public housing by carrying
out the activities of risk assessments, abate-
ment, and interim controls (as those terms
are defined in section 1004 of the Residential
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of
1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b)): Provided further, That
for purposes of environmental review, a
grant under the previous proviso shall be
considered funds for projects or activities
under title I of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for pur-
poses of section 26 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1437x) and shall be subject to the regulations
implementing such section.
PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND
For 2019 payments to public housing agen-
cies for the operation and management of
public housing, as authorized by section 9(e)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,653,116,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020.
CHOICE NEIGHBORHOODS INITIATIVE
For competitive grants under the Choice
Neighborhoods Initiative (subject to section
24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified
under this heading), for transformation, re-
habilitation, and replacement housing needs
of both public and HUD-assisted housing and
to transform neighborhoods of poverty into
functioning, sustainable mixed income
neighborhoods with appropriate services,
schools, public assets, transportation and ac-
cess to jobs, $150,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
grant funds may be used for resident and
community services, community develop-
ment, and affordable housing needs in the
community, and for conversion of vacant or
foreclosed properties to affordable housing:
Provided further, That the use of funds made
available under this heading shall not be
deemed to be public housing notwithstanding
section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further,
That grantees shall commit to an additional
period of affordability determined by the
Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Pro-
vided further, That grantees shall provide a
match in State, local, other Federal or pri-
vate funds: Provided further, That grantees
may include local governments, tribal enti-
ties, public housing authorities, and non-
profits: Provided further, That for-profit de-
velopers may apply jointly with a public en-
tity: Provided further, That for purposes of
environmental review, a grantee shall be
treated as a public housing agency under sec-
tion 26 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this
heading shall be subject to the regulations
issued by the Secretary to implement such
section: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $75,000,000 shall be
awarded to public housing agencies: Provided
further, That such grantees shall create part-
nerships with other local organizations in-
cluding assisted housing owners, service
agencies, and resident organizations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretaries of Education,
Labor, Transportation, Health and Human
Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the
Attorney General, and the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to co-
ordinate and leverage other appropriate Fed-
eral resources: Provided further, That no
more than $5,000,000 of funds made available
under this heading may be provided as
grants to undertake comprehensive local
planning with input from residents and the
community: Provided further, That unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures, re-
maining from funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Revitalization of Severely Dis-
tressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)’’ in fiscal
year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used
for purposes under this heading, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of
Funding Availability for funds made avail-
able under this heading no later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall make grant awards
no later than one year from the date of en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, obligate any available unob-
ligated balances made available under this
heading in this, or any prior Act.
FAMILY SELF-SUFFICIENCY
For the Family Self-Sufficiency program
to support family self-sufficiency coordina-
tors under section 23 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, to promote the develop-
ment of local strategies to coordinate the
use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of
such Act with public and private resources,
and enable eligible families to achieve eco-
nomic independence and self-sufficiency,
$80,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
may, by Federal Register notice, waive or
specify alternative requirements under sub-
sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of
such Act in order to facilitate the operation
of a unified self-sufficiency program for indi-
viduals receiving assistance under different
provisions of the Act, as determined by the
Secretary: Provided further, That owners of a
privately owned multifamily property with a
section 8 contract may voluntarily make a
Family Self-Sufficiency program available
to the assisted tenants of such property in
accordance with procedures established by
the Secretary: Provided further, That such
procedures established pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall permit participating ten-
ants to accrue escrow funds in accordance
with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners
to use funding from residual receipt accounts
to hire coordinators for their own Family
Self-Sufficiency program.
NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the Native American Housing Block
Grants program, as authorized under title I
of the Native American Housing Assistance
and Self-Determination Act of 1996
(NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.),
$655,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That, notwith-
standing NAHASDA, to determine the
amount of the allocation under title I of
such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary
shall apply the formula under section 302 of
such Act with the need component based on
single-race census data and with the need
component based on multi-race census data,
and the amount of the allocation for each In-
dian tribe shall be the greater of the two re-
sulting allocation amounts: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $7,000,000 shall be for providing
training and technical assistance to Indian
housing authorities and tribally designated
housing entities, to support the inspection of
Indian housing units, contract expertise, and
for training and technical assistance related
to funding provided under this heading and
other headings under this Act for the needs
of Native American families and Indian
country: Provided further, That of the funds
made available under the previous proviso,
not less than $2,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for a national organization as author-
ized under section 703 of NAHASDA (25
U.S.C. 4212): Provided further, That amounts
made available under the previous two pro-
visos may be used, contracted, or competed
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amount provided under this
heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for
the cost of guaranteed notes and other obli-
gations, as authorized by title VI of
NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs,
including the costs of modifying such notes
and other obligations, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That
these funds are available to subsidize the
total principal amount of any notes and
other obligations, any part of which is to be
guaranteed, not to exceed $17,761,989: Pro-
vided further, That the Department will no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of the date of enactment of
this Act: Provided further, That for an addi-
tional amount for the Native American
Housing Block Grants program, as author-
ized under title I of NAHASDA, $100,000,000
to remain available until September 30, 2023:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall ob-
ligate this additional amount for competi-
tive grants to eligible recipients authorized
under NAHASDA that apply for funds: Pro-
vided further, That in awarding this addi-
tional amount, the Secretary shall consider
need and administrative capacity, and shall
give priority to projects that will spur con-
struction and rehabilitation: Provided fur-
ther, That up to 1 percent of this additional
amount may be transferred, in aggregate, to
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses—
Public and Indian Housing’’ for necessary
costs of administering and overseeing the ob-
ligation and expenditure of this additional
amount: Provided further, That any funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
shall remain available until September 30,
2024.
INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans, as au-
thorized by section 184 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 1715z–13a), $1,440,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the costs of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize total loan principal, any part of
which is to be guaranteed, up to $553,846,154,
to remain available until expended: Provided
further, That up to $750,000 of this amount
may be for administrative contract expenses
including management processes and sys-
tems to carry out the loan guarantee pro-
gram.
NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT
For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block
Grant program, as authorized under title
VIII of the Native American Housing Assist-
ance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25
U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $2,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 812(b) of such
Act, the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands may not invest grant amounts pro-
vided under this heading in investment secu-
rities and other obligations: Provided further,
That amounts made available under this
heading in this and prior fiscal years may be
used to provide rental assistance to eligible
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S450 January 22, 2019
Native Hawaiian families both on and off the
Hawaiian Home Lands, notwithstanding any
other provision of law.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH
AIDS
For carrying out the Housing Opportuni-
ties for Persons with AIDS program, as au-
thorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity
Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $393,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except that amounts allocated pursuant to
section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring
contracts for permanent supportive housing
that initially were funded under section
854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made avail-
able under this heading in fiscal year 2010
and prior fiscal years that meet all program
requirements before awarding funds for new
contracts under such section: Provided fur-
ther, That the Department shall notify
grantees of their formula allocation within
60 days of enactment of this Act.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
For assistance to units of State and local
government, and to other entities, for eco-
nomic and community development activi-
ties, and for other purposes, $3,365,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021,
unless otherwise specified: Provided, That of
the total amount provided, $3,300,000,000 is
for carrying out the community development
block grant program under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended (‘‘the Act’’ herein) (42
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.): Provided further, That un-
less explicitly provided for under this head-
ing, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant
made with funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended for planning and
management development and administra-
tion: Provided further, That a metropolitan
city, urban county, unit of general local gov-
ernment, Indian tribe, or insular area that
directly or indirectly receives funds under
this heading may not sell, trade, or other-
wise transfer all or any portion of such funds
to another such entity in exchange for any
other funds, credits or non-Federal consider-
ations, but must use such funds for activities
eligible under title I of the Act: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1)
of the Act, no funds provided under this
heading may be provided to a for-profit enti-
ty for an economic development project
under section 105(a)(17) unless such project
has been evaluated and selected in accord-
ance with guidelines required under sub-
section (e)(2): Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify grantees of their for-
mula allocation within 60 days of enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That of the
total amount provided under this heading,
$65,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such
Act, of which, notwithstanding any other
provision of law (including section 203 of this
Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for emer-
gencies that constitute imminent threats to
health and safety.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019,
commitments to guarantee loans under sec-
tion 108 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any
part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed
a total principal amount of $300,000,000, not-
withstanding any aggregate limitation on
outstanding obligations guaranteed in sub-
section (k) of such section 108: Provided, That
the Secretary shall collect fees from bor-
rowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of
such section 108, to result in a credit subsidy
cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, and
any such fees shall be collected in accord-
ance with section 502(7) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
For the HOME Investment Partnerships
program, as authorized under title II of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act, as amended, $1,250,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding the amount
made available under this heading, the
threshold reduction requirements in sections
216(10) and 217(b)(4) of such Act shall not
apply to allocations of such amount: Pro-
vided further, That the Department shall no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.
SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP
OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM
For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeown-
ership Opportunity Program, as authorized
under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity
Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended,
$54,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That of the total
amount provided under this heading,
$10,000,000 shall be made available to the
Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Pro-
gram as authorized under section 11 of the
Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act
of 1996, as amended: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $35,000,000 shall be made available for
the second, third, and fourth capacity build-
ing activities authorized under section 4(a)
of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42
U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural
capacity building activities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for
capacity building by national rural housing
organizations with experience assessing na-
tional rural conditions and providing financ-
ing, training, technical assistance, informa-
tion, and research to local nonprofits, local
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high
need rural communities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $4,000,000, shall be made available
for a program to rehabilitate and modify the
homes of disabled or low-income veterans, as
authorized under section 1079 of Public Law
113–291: Provided further, That funds provided
under the previous proviso shall be awarded
within 180 days of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That funds provided for
such program in fiscal years 2016, 2017, and
2018 shall be awarded within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act.
HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For the Emergency Solutions Grants pro-
gram as authorized under subtitle B of title
IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assist-
ance Act, as amended; the Continuum of
Care program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance program as author-
ized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act,
$2,636,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any rental as-
sistance amounts that are recaptured under
such Continuum of Care program shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That not less than $280,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for such Emergency Solutions
Grants program: Provided further, That not
less than $2,219,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
for such Continuum of Care and Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance programs: Provided
further, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall be
made available for grants for rapid re-hous-
ing projects and supportive service projects
providing coordinated entry, and for eligible
activities the Secretary determines to be
critical in order to assist survivors of domes-
tic violence, dating violence, and stalking:
Provided further, That such projects shall be
eligible for renewal under the continuum of
care program subject to the same terms and
conditions as other renewal applicants: Pro-
vided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for the national homeless data
analysis project: Provided further, That all
funds awarded for supportive services under
the Continuum of Care program and the
Rural Housing Stability Assistance program
shall be matched by not less than 25 percent
in cash or in kind by each grantee: Provided
further, That for all match requirements ap-
plicable to funds made available under this
heading for this fiscal year and prior fiscal
years, a grantee may use (or could have
used) as a source of match funds other funds
administered by the Secretary and other
Federal agencies unless there is (or was) a
specific statutory prohibition on any such
use of any such funds: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall collect system perform-
ance measures for each continuum of care,
and that relative to fiscal year 2015, under
the Continuum of Care competition with re-
spect to funds made available under this
heading, the Secretary shall base an increas-
ing share of the score on performance cri-
teria: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided under this heading shall be
available to provide funding for new
projects, except for projects created through
reallocation, unless the Secretary deter-
mines that the continuum of care has dem-
onstrated that projects are evaluated and
ranked based on the degree to which they
improve the continuum of care’s system per-
formance: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall prioritize funding under the
Continuum of Care program to continuums
of care that have demonstrated a capacity to
reallocate funding from lower performing
projects to higher performing projects: Pro-
vided further, That all awards of assistance
under this heading shall be required to co-
ordinate and integrate homeless programs
with other mainstream health, social serv-
ices, and employment programs for which
homeless populations may be eligible: Pro-
vided further, That any unobligated amounts
remaining from funds appropriated under
this heading in fiscal year 2012 and prior
years for project-based rental assistance for
rehabilitation projects with 10-year grant
terms may be used for purposes under this
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for
which such funds were appropriated: Provided
further, That all balances for Shelter Plus
Care renewals previously funded from the
Shelter Plus Care Renewal account and
transferred to this account shall be avail-
able, if recaptured, for Continuum of Care re-
newals in fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That the Department shall notify grantees of
their formula allocation from amounts allo-
cated (which may represent initial or final
amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solu-
tions Grant program within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That up to
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be to implement projects
to demonstrate how a comprehensive ap-
proach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and
under, in up to 25 communities, including at
least eight communities with substantial
rural populations, can dramatically reduce
youth homelessness: Provided further, That of
the amount made available under the pre-
vious proviso, up to $5,000,000 shall be avail-
able to provide technical assistance on youth
homelessness, and collection, analysis, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S451
January 22, 2019
reporting of data and performance measures
under the comprehensive approaches to serve
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordi-
nation with other technical assistance funds
provided under this title: Provided further,
That such projects shall be eligible for re-
newal under the continuum of care program
subject to the same terms and conditions as
other renewal applicants: Provided further,
That youth aged 24 and under seeking assist-
ance under this heading shall not be required
to provide third party documentation to es-
tablish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C.
11302(a) or (b) to receive services: Provided
further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24
and under or families headed by youth aged
24 and under who are living in unsafe situa-
tions may be served by youth-serving pro-
viders funded under this heading.
HOUSING PROGRAMS
PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of project-based subsidy contracts under
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (‘‘the Act’’), not other-
wise provided for, $11,347,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the
$400,000,000 previously appropriated under
this heading that became available October
1, 2018), and $400,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2019: Provided, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for expiring or terminating section 8
project-based subsidy contracts (including
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts),
for amendments to section 8 project-based
subsidy contracts (including section 8 mod-
erate rehabilitation contracts), for contracts
entered into pursuant to section 441 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of section 8 con-
tracts for units in projects that are subject
to approved plans of action under the Emer-
gency Low Income Housing Preservation Act
of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preserva-
tion and Resident Homeownership Act of
1990, and for administrative and other ex-
penses associated with project-based activi-
ties and assistance funded under this para-
graph: Provided further, That of the total
amounts provided under this heading, not to
exceed $245,000,000 shall be available for per-
formance-based contract administrators for
section 8 project-based assistance, for car-
rying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): Provided further,
That the Secretary may also use such
amounts in the previous proviso for perform-
ance-based contract administrators for the
administration of: interest reduction pay-
ments pursuant to section 236(a) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1(a)); rent
supplement payments pursuant to section
101 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2)
rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z–
1(f)(2)); project rental assistance contracts
for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project
rental assistance contracts for supportive
housing for persons with disabilities under
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pur-
suant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667); and
loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided
further, That amounts recaptured under this
heading, the heading ‘‘Annual Contributions
for Assisted Housing’’, or the heading ‘‘Hous-
ing Certificate Fund’’, may be used for re-
newals of or amendments to section 8
project-based contracts or for performance-
based contract administrators, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, upon the request of the Secretary,
project funds that are held in residual re-
ceipts accounts for any project subject to a
section 8 project-based Housing Assistance
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a
Housing Finance Agency to require that sur-
plus project funds be deposited in an inter-
est-bearing residual receipts account and
that are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to be available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That amounts deposited pursu-
ant to the previous proviso shall be available
in addition to the amount otherwise pro-
vided by this heading for uses authorized
under this heading.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for hous-
ing for the elderly, as authorized by section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended,
for project rental assistance for the elderly
under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including
amendments to contracts for such assistance
and renewal of expiring contracts for such
assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior
preservation rental assistance contracts, in-
cluding renewals, as authorized by section
811(e) of the American Housing and Eco-
nomic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended,
and for supportive services associated with
the housing, $678,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That of
the amount provided under this heading, up
to $90,000,000 shall be for service coordinators
and the continuation of existing congregate
service grants for residents of assisted hous-
ing projects: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading shall be available for Real
Estate Assessment Center inspections and
inspection-related activities associated with
section 202 projects: Provided further, That
the Secretary may waive the provisions of
section 202 governing the terms and condi-
tions of project rental assistance, except
that the initial contract term for such as-
sistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration:
Provided further, That upon request of the
Secretary, project funds that are held in re-
sidual receipts accounts for any project sub-
ject to a section 202 project rental assistance
contract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available, in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading, for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be available for
amendments and renewals in addition to the
purposes for which such funds originally
were appropriated: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $10,000,000, shall be for a program to be
established by the Secretary to make grants
to experienced non-profit organizations,
States, local governments, or public housing
agencies for safety and functional home
modification repairs to meet the needs of
low-income elderly persons to enable them
to remain in their primary residence: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount made
available under the previous proviso, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available to meet
such needs in communities with substantial
rural populations.
HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for sup-
portive housing for persons with disabilities,
as authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, for project rent-
al assistance for supportive housing for per-
sons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2)
of such Act, for project assistance contracts
pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act
of 1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667), in-
cluding amendments to contracts for such
assistance and renewal of expiring contracts
for such assistance for up to a 1-year term,
for project rental assistance to State hous-
ing finance agencies and other appropriate
entities as authorized under section 811(b)(3)
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Housing
Act, and for supportive services associated
with the housing for persons with disabilities
as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of such Act,
$184,155,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, of which $30,155,000 shall be
for capital advance and project rental assist-
ance awards: Provided, That amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for Real Estate Assessment Center in-
spections and inspection-related activities
associated with section 811 projects: Provided
further, That, upon the request of the Sec-
retary, project funds that are held in resid-
ual receipts accounts for any project subject
to a section 811 project rental assistance con-
tract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be used for amend-
ments and renewals in addition to the pur-
poses for which such funds originally were
appropriated.
HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE
For contracts, grants, and other assistance
excluding loans, as authorized under section
106 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, including
up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract
services: Provided, That grants made avail-
able from amounts provided under this head-
ing shall be awarded within 180 days of en-
actment of this Act: Provided further, That
funds shall be used for providing counseling
and advice to tenants and homeowners, both
current and prospective, with respect to
property maintenance, financial manage-
ment or literacy, and such other matters as
may be appropriate to assist them in improv-
ing their housing conditions, meeting their
financial needs, and fulfilling the respon-
sibilities of tenancy or homeownership; for
program administration; and for housing
counselor training: Provided further, That for
purposes of providing such grants from
amounts provided under this heading, the
Secretary may enter into multiyear agree-
ments, as appropriate, subject to the avail-
ability of annual appropriations.
RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
For amendments to contracts under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section
236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–1) in State-aided, noninsured
rental housing projects, $5,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount, together with unobligated balances
from recaptured amounts appropriated prior
to fiscal year 2006 from terminated contracts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S452 January 22, 2019
under such sections of law, and any unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures and car-
ryover, remaining from funds appropriated
under this heading after fiscal year 2005,
shall also be available for extensions of up to
one year for expiring contracts under such
sections of law.
PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES
TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses as authorized by
the National Manufactured Housing Con-
struction and Safety Standards Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which
$12,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufac-
tured Housing Fees Trust Fund: Provided,
That not to exceed the total amount appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
from the general fund of the Treasury to the
extent necessary to incur obligations and
make expenditures pending the receipt of
collections to the Fund pursuant to section
620 of such Act: Provided further, That the
amount made available under this heading
from the general fund shall be reduced as
such collections are received during fiscal
year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year
2019 appropriation from the general fund es-
timated at zero, and fees pursuant to such
section 620 shall be modified as necessary to
ensure such a final fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tion: Provided further, That for the dispute
resolution and installation programs, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment may assess and collect fees from any
program participant: Provided further, That
such collections shall be deposited into the
Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein,
may use such collections, as well as fees col-
lected under section 620, for necessary ex-
penses of such Act: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the requirements of section
620 of such Act, the Secretary may carry out
responsibilities of the Secretary under such
Act through the use of approved service pro-
viders that are paid directly by the recipi-
ents of their services.
FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION
MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee single
family loans insured under the Mutual Mort-
gage Insurance Fund shall not exceed
$400,000,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That during fis-
cal year 2019, obligations to make direct
loans to carry out the purposes of section
204(g) of the National Housing Act, as
amended, shall not exceed $1,000,000: Provided
further, That the foregoing amount in the
previous proviso shall be for loans to non-
profit and governmental entities in connec-
tion with sales of single family real prop-
erties owned by the Secretary and formerly
insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insur-
ance Fund: Provided further, That for admin-
istrative contract expenses of the Federal
Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That to the extent guaranteed
loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on
or before April 1, 2019, an additional $1,400 for
administrative contract expenses shall be
available for each $1,000,000 in additional
guaranteed loan commitments (including a
pro rata amount for any amount below
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made
available by this proviso exceed $30,000,000:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
limitation in the first sentence of section
255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715z–20(g)), during fiscal year 2019 the Sec-
retary may insure and enter into new com-
mitments to insure mortgages under section
255 of the National Housing Act only to the
extent that the net credit subsidy cost for
such insurance does not exceed zero: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary shall not take any action against a
lender solely on the basis of compare ratios
that have been adversely affected by defaults
on mortgages secured by properties in areas
where a major disaster was declared in 2017
or 2018 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee loans in-
sured under the General and Special Risk In-
surance Funds, as authorized by sections 238
and 519 of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–3 and 1735c), shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any
part of which is to be guaranteed, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That during fiscal year 2019, gross obliga-
tions for the principal amount of direct
loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l),
238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act,
shall not exceed $1,000,000, which shall be for
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities
in connection with the sale of single family
real properties owned by the Secretary and
formerly insured under such Act.
GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE
ASSOCIATION
GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to issue guarantees to
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That $27,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, shall be for
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office
of Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion: Provided further, That to the extent
that guaranteed loan commitments exceed
$155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2019, an
additional $100 for necessary salaries and ex-
penses shall be available until expended for
each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan
commitments (including a pro rata amount
for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no
case shall funds made available by this pro-
viso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That
receipts from Commitment and Multiclass
fees collected pursuant to title III of the Na-
tional Housing Act, as amended, shall be
credited as offsetting collections to this ac-
count.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For contracts, grants, and necessary ex-
penses of programs of research and studies
relating to housing and urban problems, not
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title
V of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z–1 et seq.), includ-
ing carrying out the functions of the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for technical assist-
ance, $96,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That with re-
spect to amounts made available under this
heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this
title, the Secretary may enter into coopera-
tive agreements funded with philanthropic
entities, other Federal agencies, State or
local governments and their agencies, or col-
leges or universities for research projects:
Provided further, That with respect to the
previous proviso, such partners to the coop-
erative agreements must contribute at least
a 50 percent match toward the cost of the
project: Provided further, That for non-com-
petitive agreements entered into in accord-
ance with the previous two provisos, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–282, 31 U.S.C.
note) in lieu of compliance with section
102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation of
award decisions: Provided further, That prior
to obligation of technical assistance funding,
the Secretary shall submit a plan, for ap-
proval, to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations on how it will allocate
funding for this activity: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading may be available for the doctoral
dissertation research grant program.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES
For contracts, grants, and other assist-
ance, not otherwise provided for, as author-
ized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
1968, as amended by the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Sec-
retary may assess and collect fees to cover
the costs of the Fair Housing Training Acad-
emy, and may use such funds to develop on-
line courses and provide such training: Pro-
vided further, That no funds made available
under this heading shall be used to lobby the
executive or legislative branches of the Fed-
eral Government in connection with a spe-
cific contract, grant, or loan: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $300,000 shall be available to
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment for the creation and promotion of
translated materials and other programs
that support the assistance of persons with
limited English proficiency in utilizing the
services provided by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION
For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program,
as authorized by section 1011 of the Residen-
tial Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act
of 1992, $279,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which $45,000,000 shall
be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursu-
ant to sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1970, which shall
include research, studies, testing, and dem-
onstration efforts, including education and
outreach concerning lead-based paint poi-
soning and other housing-related diseases
and hazards: Provided, That for purposes of
environmental review, pursuant to the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of
law that further the purposes of such Act, a
grant under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or
the Lead Technical Studies program under
this heading or under prior appropriations
Acts for such purposes under this heading,
shall be considered to be funds for a special
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition
Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That
not less than $95,000,000 of the amounts made
available under this heading for the award of
grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Resi-
dential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction
Act of 1992 shall be provided to areas with
the highest lead-based paint abatement
needs: Provided further, That $64,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be for the implementation of projects to
demonstrate how intensive, extended multi-
year interventions can dramatically reduce
the presence of lead-based paint hazards in
communities containing high concentrations
of both pre-1940 housing and low-income fam-
ilies by achieving economies of scale that
substantially reduce the cost of lead-based
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S453
January 22, 2019
paint remediation activities and administra-
tive costs for grantees: Provided further, That
such projects in each of seven communities
shall be for five years and serve no more
than four contiguous census tracts in which
there are high concentrations of housing
stock built before 1940, in which low-income
families with children make up a signifi-
cantly higher proportion of the population as
compared to the State average, and that are
located in jurisdictions in which instances of
elevated blood lead levels reported to the
State are significantly higher than the State
average: Provided further, That funding
awarded for such projects shall be made
available for draw down contingent upon the
grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity,
and grant compliance benchmarks estab-
lished by the Secretary: Provided further,
That each recipient of funds for such
projects shall contribute an amount not less
than 10 percent of the total award, and that
the Secretary shall give priority to appli-
cants that secure commitments for addi-
tional contributions from public and private
sources: Provided further, That grantees cur-
rently receiving grants made under this
heading shall be eligible to apply for such
projects, provided that they are deemed to be
in compliance with program requirements
established by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That each applicant shall certify ade-
quate capacity that is acceptable to the Sec-
retary to carry out the proposed use of funds
pursuant to a notice of funding availability:
Provided further, That amounts made avail-
able under this heading in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts, still remaining available,
may be used for any purpose under this head-
ing notwithstanding the purpose for which
such amounts were appropriated if a pro-
gram competition is undersubscribed and
there are other program competitions under
this heading that are oversubscribed.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND
For the development, modernization, and
enhancement of, modifications to, and infra-
structure for Department-wide and program-
specific information technology systems, for
the continuing operation and maintenance of
both Department-wide and program-specific
information systems, and for program-re-
lated maintenance activities, $280,000,000, of
which $260,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any amounts
transferred to this Fund under this Act shall
remain available until expended: Provided
further, That any amounts transferred to
this Fund from amounts appropriated by pre-
viously enacted appropriations Acts may be
used for the purposes specified under this
Fund, in addition to any other information
technology purposes for which such amounts
were appropriated: Provided further, That not
more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for develop-
ment, modernization and enhancement may
be obligated until the Secretary submits to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations, for approval, a plan for expendi-
ture that—(A) identifies for each moderniza-
tion project: (i) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (ii) the esti-
mated life-cycle cost, and (iii) key mile-
stones to be met; and (B) demonstrates that
each modernization project is: (i) compliant
with the Department’s enterprise architec-
ture, (ii) being managed in accordance with
applicable life-cycle management policies
and guidance, (iii) subject to the Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements, and (iv) supported by an
adequately staffed project office.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Inspector General in carrying out
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amend-
ed, $128,082,000: Provided, That the Inspector
General shall have independent authority
over all personnel issues within this office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of
budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 per-
cent of the cash amounts associated with
such budget authority, that are recaptured
from projects described in section 1012(a) of
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assist-
ance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f
note) shall be rescinded or in the case of
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and
such amounts of budget authority or cash re-
captured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury shall be used by State housing
finance agencies or local governments or
local housing agencies with projects ap-
proved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for which settlement oc-
curred after January 1, 1992, in accordance
with such section. Notwithstanding the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary may award up
to 15 percent of the budget authority or cash
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury to provide project owners with
incentives to refinance their project at a
lower interest rate.
SEC. 202. None of the amounts made avail-
able under this Act may be used during fiscal
year 2019 to investigate or prosecute under
the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful
activity engaged in by one or more persons,
including the filing or maintaining of a non-
frivolous legal action, that is engaged in
solely for the purpose of achieving or pre-
venting action by a Government official or
entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 203. Except as explicitly provided in
law, any grant, cooperative agreement or
other assistance made pursuant to title II of
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis
and in accordance with section 102 of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
SEC. 204. Funds of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to the
Government Corporation Control Act or sec-
tion 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be
available, without regard to the limitations
on administrative expenses, for legal serv-
ices on a contract or fee basis, and for uti-
lizing and making payment for services and
facilities of the Federal National Mortgage
Association, Government National Mortgage
Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Fed-
eral Reserve banks or any member thereof,
Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured
bank within the meaning of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended
(12 U.S.C. 1811–1).
SEC. 205. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act or through a reprogramming of
funds, no part of any appropriation for the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall be available for any program,
project or activity in excess of amounts set
forth in the budget estimates submitted to
Congress.
SEC. 206. Corporations and agencies of the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment which are subject to the Government
Corporation Control Act are hereby author-
ized to make such expenditures, within the
limits of funds and borrowing authority
available to each such corporation or agency
and in accordance with law, and to make
such contracts and commitments without re-
gard to fiscal year limitations as provided by
section 104 of such Act as may be necessary
in carrying out the programs set forth in the
budget for 2019 for such corporation or agen-
cy except as hereinafter provided: Provided,
That collections of these corporations and
agencies may be used for new loan or mort-
gage purchase commitments only to the ex-
tent expressly provided for in this Act (un-
less such loans are in support of other forms
of assistance provided for in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts), except that this proviso
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or
guaranty operations of these corporations,
or where loans or mortgage purchases are
necessary to protect the financial interest of
the United States Government.
SEC. 207. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall provide quarterly
reports to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations regarding all uncommit-
ted, unobligated, recaptured and excess funds
in each program and activity within the ju-
risdiction of the Department and shall sub-
mit additional, updated budget information
to these Committees upon request.
SEC. 208. The President’s formal budget re-
quest for fiscal year 2020, as well as the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment’s congressional budget justifications to
be submitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, shall use the identical ac-
count and sub-account structure provided
under this Act.
SEC. 209. No funds provided under this title
may be used for an audit of the Government
National Mortgage Association that makes
applicable requirements under the Federal
Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et
seq.).
SEC. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, subject to the conditions
listed under this section, for fiscal years 2019
and 2020, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may authorize the transfer of
some or all project-based assistance, debt
held or insured by the Secretary and statu-
torily required low-income and very low-in-
come use restrictions if any, associated with
one or more multifamily housing project or
projects to another multifamily housing
project or projects.
(b) PHASED TRANSFERS.—Transfers of
project-based assistance under this section
may be done in phases to accommodate the
financing and other requirements related to
rehabilitating or constructing the project or
projects to which the assistance is trans-
ferred, to ensure that such project or
projects meet the standards under subsection
(c).
(c) The transfer authorized in subsection
(a) is subject to the following conditions:
(1) NUMBER AND BEDROOM SIZE OF UNITS.—
(A) For occupied units in the transferring
project: The number of low-income and very
low-income units and the configuration (i.e.,
bedroom size) provided by the transferring
project shall be no less than when trans-
ferred to the receiving project or projects
and the net dollar amount of Federal assist-
ance provided to the transferring project
shall remain the same in the receiving
project or projects.
(B) For unoccupied units in the transfer-
ring project: The Secretary may authorize a
reduction in the number of dwelling units in
the receiving project or projects to allow for
a reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet
current market demands, as determined by
the Secretary and provided there is no in-
crease in the project-based assistance budget
authority.
(2) The transferring project shall, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, be either physically
obsolete or economically nonviable.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S454 January 22, 2019
(3) The receiving project or projects shall
meet or exceed applicable physical standards
established by the Secretary.
(4) The owner or mortgagor of the transfer-
ring project shall notify and consult with the
tenants residing in the transferring project
and provide a certification of approval by all
appropriate local governmental officials.
(5) The tenants of the transferring project
who remain eligible for assistance to be pro-
vided by the receiving project or projects
shall not be required to vacate their units in
the transferring project or projects until new
units in the receiving project are available
for occupancy.
(6) The Secretary determines that this
transfer is in the best interest of the tenants.
(7) If either the transferring project or the
receiving project or projects meets the con-
dition specified in subsection (d)(2)(A), any
lien on the receiving project resulting from
additional financing obtained by the owner
shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured
mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on,
such project by the Secretary, except that
the Secretary may waive this requirement
upon determination that such a waiver is
necessary to facilitate the financing of ac-
quisition, construction, and/or rehabilitation
of the receiving project or projects.
(8) If the transferring project meets the re-
quirements of subsection (d)(2), the owner or
mortgagor of the receiving project or
projects shall execute and record either a
continuation of the existing use agreement
or a new use agreement for the project
where, in either case, any use restrictions in
such agreement are of no lesser duration
than the existing use restrictions.
(9) The transfer does not increase the cost
(as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, as amended) of any
FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent
that appropriations are provided in advance
for the amount of any such increased cost.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘low-income’’ and ‘‘very low-
income’’ shall have the meanings provided
by the statute and/or regulations governing
the program under which the project is in-
sured or assisted;
(2) the term ‘‘multifamily housing project’’
means housing that meets one of the fol-
lowing conditions—
(A) housing that is subject to a mortgage
insured under the National Housing Act;
(B) housing that has project-based assist-
ance attached to the structure including
projects undergoing mark to market debt re-
structuring under the Multifamily Assisted
Housing Reform and Affordability Housing
Act;
(C) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by
section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(D) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as such sec-
tion existed before the enactment of the
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
Housing Act;
(E) housing that is assisted under section
811 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Af-
fordable Housing Act; or
(F) housing or vacant land that is subject
to a use agreement;
(3) the term ‘‘project-based assistance’’
means—
(A) assistance provided under section 8(b)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(B) assistance for housing constructed or
substantially rehabilitated pursuant to as-
sistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of
such Act (as such section existed imme-
diately before October 1, 1983);
(C) rent supplement payments under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965;
(D) interest reduction payments under sec-
tion 236 and/or additional assistance pay-
ments under section 236(f)(2) of the National
Housing Act;
(E) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
(F) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(4) the term ‘‘receiving project or projects’’
means the multifamily housing project or
projects to which some or all of the project-
based assistance, debt, and statutorily re-
quired low-income and very low-income use
restrictions are to be transferred;
(5) the term ‘‘transferring project’’ means
the multifamily housing project which is
transferring some or all of the project-based
assistance, debt, and the statutorily required
low-income and very low-income use restric-
tions to the receiving project or projects;
and
(6) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
(e) RESEARCH REPORT.—The Secretary
shall conduct an evaluation of the transfer
authority under this section, including the
effect of such transfers on the operational ef-
ficiency, contract rents, physical and finan-
cial conditions, and long-term preservation
of the affected properties.
SEC. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided
under section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any individual
who—
(1) is enrolled as a student at an institu-
tion of higher education (as defined under
section 102 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
(2) is under 24 years of age;
(3) is not a veteran;
(4) is unmarried;
(5) does not have a dependent child;
(6) is not a person with disabilities, as such
term is defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving assist-
ance under such section 8 as of November 30,
2005;
(7) is not a youth who left foster care at
age 14 or older and is at risk of becoming
homeless; and
(8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or
has parents who, individually or jointly, are
not eligible, to receive assistance under sec-
tion 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b) For purposes of determining the eligi-
bility of a person to receive assistance under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance
(in excess of amounts received for tuition
and any other required fees and charges)
that an individual receives under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.),
from private sources, or an institution of
higher education (as defined under the High-
er Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)),
shall be considered income to that indi-
vidual, except for a person over the age of 23
with dependent children.
SEC. 212. The funds made available for Na-
tive Alaskans under the heading ‘‘Native
American Housing Block Grants’’ in title II
of this Act shall be allocated to the same Na-
tive Alaskan housing block grant recipients
that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
SEC. 213. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, in fiscal year 2019, in managing
and disposing of any multifamily property
that is owned or has a mortgage held by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and during the process of foreclosure
on any property with a contract for rental
assistance payments under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 or other
Federal programs, the Secretary shall main-
tain any rental assistance payments under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 and other programs that are attached to
any dwelling units in the property. To the
extent the Secretary determines, in con-
sultation with the tenants and the local gov-
ernment, that such a multifamily property
owned or held by the Secretary is not fea-
sible for continued rental assistance pay-
ments under such section 8 or other pro-
grams, based on consideration of (1) the costs
of rehabilitating and operating the property
and all available Federal, State, and local re-
sources, including rent adjustments under
section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Hous-
ing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997
(‘‘MAHRAA’’) and (2) environmental condi-
tions that cannot be remedied in a cost-ef-
fective fashion, the Secretary may, in con-
sultation with the tenants of that property,
contract for project-based rental assistance
payments with an owner or owners of other
existing housing properties, or provide other
rental assistance. The Secretary shall also
take appropriate steps to ensure that
project-based contracts remain in effect
prior to foreclosure, subject to the exercise
of contractual abatement remedies to assist
relocation of tenants for imminent major
threats to health and safety after written
notice to and informed consent of the af-
fected tenants and use of other available
remedies, such as partial abatements or re-
ceivership. After disposition of any multi-
family property described under this section,
the contract and allowable rent levels on
such properties shall be subject to the re-
quirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
SEC. 214. The commitment authority fund-
ed by fees as provided under the heading
‘‘Community Development Loan Guarantees
Program Account’’ may be used to guar-
antee, or make commitments to guarantee,
notes, or other obligations issued by any
State on behalf of non-entitlement commu-
nities in the State in accordance with the re-
quirements of section 108 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974: Pro-
vided, That any State receiving such a guar-
antee or commitment shall distribute all
funds subject to such guarantee to the units
of general local government in non-entitle-
ment areas that received the commitment.
SEC. 215. Public housing agencies that own
and operate 400 or fewer public housing units
may elect to be exempt from any asset man-
agement requirement imposed by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development in
connection with the operating fund rule: Pro-
vided, That an agency seeking a discontinu-
ance of a reduction of subsidy under the op-
erating fund formula shall not be exempt
from asset management requirements.
SEC. 216. With respect to the use of
amounts provided in this Act and in future
Acts for the operation, capital improvement
and management of public housing as au-
thorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not im-
pose any requirement or guideline relating
to asset management that restricts or limits
in any way the use of capital funds for cen-
tral office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or
9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): Provided, That
a public housing agency may not use capital
funds authorized under section 9(d) for ac-
tivities that are eligible under section 9(e)
for assistance with amounts from the oper-
ating fund in excess of the amounts per-
mitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
SEC. 217. No official or employee of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
shall be designated as an allotment holder
unless the Office of the Chief Financial Offi-
cer has determined that such allotment hold-
er has implemented an adequate system of
funds control and has received training in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S455
January 22, 2019
funds control procedures and directives. The
Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that
there is a trained allotment holder for each
HUD appropriation under the accounts ‘‘Ex-
ecutive Offices’’ and ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices,’’ as well as each account receiv-
ing appropriations under the general heading
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses’’,
‘‘Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion—Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Secu-
rities Loan Guarantee Program Account’’,
and ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ within the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
SEC. 218. The Secretary of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development shall, for
fiscal year 2019, notify the public through
the Federal Register and other means, as de-
termined appropriate, of the issuance of a
notice of the availability of assistance or no-
tice of funding availability (NOFA) for any
program or discretionary fund administered
by the Secretary that is to be competitively
awarded. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary
may make the NOFA available only on the
Internet at the appropriate Government web
site or through other electronic media, as de-
termined by the Secretary.
SEC. 219. Payment of attorney fees in pro-
gram-related litigation shall be paid from
the individual program office and Office of
General Counsel salaries and expenses appro-
priations. The annual budget submission for
the program offices and the Office of General
Counsel shall include any such projected liti-
gation costs for attorney fees as a separate
line item request. No funds provided in this
title may be used to pay any such litigation
costs for attorney fees until the Department
submits for review a spending plan for such
costs to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 220. The Secretary is authorized to
transfer up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, which-
ever is less, of funds appropriated for any of-
fice under the heading ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices’’ or for any account under the
general heading ‘‘Program Office Salaries
and Expenses’’ to any other such office or ac-
count: Provided, That no appropriation for
any such office or account shall be increased
or decreased by more than 10 percent or
$5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior
written approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall provide notifi-
cation to such Committees three business
days in advance of any such transfers under
this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000,
whichever is less.
SEC. 221. (a) Any entity receiving housing
assistance payments shall maintain decent,
safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’), and comply with any stand-
ards under applicable State or local laws,
rules, ordinances, or regulations relating to
the physical condition of any property cov-
ered under a housing assistance payment
contract.
(b) The Secretary shall take action under
subsection (c) when a multifamily housing
project with a section 8 contract or contract
for similar project-based assistance—
(1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition
Standards (UPCS) score of 60 or less; or
(2) fails to certify in writing to the Sec-
retary within 3 days that all Exigent Health
and Safety deficiencies identified by the in-
spector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured
and noninsured projects with assistance at-
tached to the units under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f), but do not apply to such units assisted
under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13))
or to public housing units assisted with cap-
ital or operating funds under section 9 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g).
(c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the
REAC inspection, the Secretary must pro-
vide the owner with a Notice of Default with
a specified timetable, determined by the Sec-
retary, for correcting all deficiencies. The
Secretary must also provide a copy of the
Notice of Default to the tenants, the local
government, any mortgagees, and any con-
tract administrator. If the owner’s appeal re-
sults in a UPCS score of 60 or above, the Sec-
retary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
(2) At the end of the time period for cor-
recting all deficiencies specified in the No-
tice of Default, if the owner fails to fully cor-
rect such deficiencies, the Secretary may—
(A) require immediate replacement of
project management with a management
agent approved by the Secretary;
(B) impose civil money penalties, which
shall be used solely for the purpose of sup-
porting safe and sanitary conditions at appli-
cable properties, as designated by the Sec-
retary, with priority given to the tenants of
the property affected by the penalty;
(C) abate the section 8 contract, including
partial abatement, as determined by the Sec-
retary, until all deficiencies have been cor-
rected;
(D) pursue transfer of the project to an
owner, approved by the Secretary under es-
tablished procedures, which will be obligated
to promptly make all required repairs and to
accept renewal of the assistance contract as
long as such renewal is offered;
(E) transfer the existing section 8 contract
to another project or projects and owner or
owners;
(F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, includ-
ing suspensions or debarments from Federal
programs;
(G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver
to manage the property and cure all project
deficiencies or seek a judicial order of spe-
cific performance requiring the owner to
cure all project deficiencies;
(H) work with the owner, lender, or other
related party to stabilize the property in an
attempt to preserve the property through
compliance, transfer of ownership, or an in-
fusion of capital provided by a third-party
that requires time to effectuate; or
(I) take any other regulatory or contrac-
tual remedies available as deemed necessary
and appropriate by the Secretary.
(d) The Secretary shall also take appro-
priate steps to ensure that project-based con-
tracts remain in effect, subject to the exer-
cise of contractual abatement remedies to
assist relocation of tenants for major threats
to health and safety after written notice to
the affected tenants. To the extent the Sec-
retary determines, in consultation with the
tenants and the local government, that the
property is not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments under such section 8 or
other programs, based on consideration of—
(1) the costs of rehabilitating and oper-
ating the property and all available Federal,
State, and local resources, including rent ad-
justments under section 524 of the Multi-
family Assisted Housing Reform and Afford-
ability Act of 1997 (‘‘MAHRAA’’); and
(2) environmental conditions that cannot
be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the
Secretary may contract for project-based
rental assistance payments with an owner or
owners of other existing housing properties,
or provide other rental assistance.
(e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on
all properties covered by this section that
are assessed through the Real Estate Assess-
ment Center and have UPCS physical inspec-
tion scores of less than 60 or have received
an unsatisfactory management and occu-
pancy review within the past 36 months. The
report shall include—
(1) the enforcement actions being taken to
address such conditions, including imposi-
tion of civil money penalties and termi-
nation of subsidies, and identify properties
that have such conditions multiple times;
(2) actions that the Department of Housing
and Urban Development is taking to protect
tenants of such identified properties; and
(3) any administrative or legislative rec-
ommendations to further improve the living
conditions at properties covered under a
housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and
House Committees on Appropriations no
later than 30 days after the enactment of
this Act, and on the first business day of
each Federal fiscal year quarter thereafter
while this section remains in effect.
SEC. 222. None of the funds made available
by this Act, or any other Act, for purposes
authorized under section 8 (only with respect
to the tenant-based rental assistance pro-
gram) and section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.),
may be used by any public housing agency
for any amount of salary, including bonuses,
for the chief executive officer of which, or
any other official or employee of which, that
exceeds the annual rate of basic pay payable
for a position at level IV of the Executive
Schedule at any time during any public
housing agency fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 223. None of the funds in this Act pro-
vided to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development may be used to make a
grant award unless the Secretary notifies
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 3 full business days
before any project, State, locality, housing
authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or
other entity selected to receive a grant
award is announced by the Department or its
offices.
SEC. 224. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to require or enforce
the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
SEC. 225. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used by the Federal
Housing Administration, the Government
National Mortgage Administration, or the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to insure, securitize, or establish a
Federal guarantee of any mortgage or mort-
gage backed security that refinances or oth-
erwise replaces a mortgage that has been
subject to eminent domain condemnation or
seizure, by a State, municipality, or any
other political subdivision of a State.
SEC. 226. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to terminate the
status of a unit of general local government
as a metropolitan city (as defined in section
102 of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect
to grants under section 106 of such Act (42
U.S.C. 5306).
SEC. 227. Amounts made available under
this Act which are either appropriated, allo-
cated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or
transferred to the Office of Policy Develop-
ment and Research in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and func-
tions thereof, for research, evaluation, or
statistical purposes, and which are unex-
pended at the time of completion of a con-
tract, grant, or cooperative agreement, may
be deobligated and shall immediately be-
come available and may be reobligated in
that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year
for the research, evaluation, or statistical
purposes for which the amounts are made
available to that Office subject to re-
programming requirements in section 405 of
this Act.
SEC. 228. None of the funds provided in this
Act or any other act may be used for awards,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S456 January 22, 2019
including performance, special act, or spot,
for any employee of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to ad-
ministrative discipline (including suspension
from work), in this or the prior fiscal year,
but this prohibition shall not be effective
prior to the effective date of any such admin-
istrative discipline or after any final deci-
sion over-turning such discipline.
SEC. 229. Funds made available in this title
under the heading ‘‘Homeless Assistance
Grants’’ may be used by the Secretary to
participate in Performance Partnership Pi-
lots authorized under section 526 of division
H of Public Law 113–76, section 524 of division
G of Public Law 113–235, section 525 of divi-
sion H of Public Law 114–113, and such au-
thorities as are enacted for Performance
Partnership Pilots in an appropriations Act
for fiscal year 2019: Provided, That such par-
ticipation shall be limited to no more than
10 continuums of care and housing activities
to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
SEC. 230. With respect to grant amounts
awarded under the heading ‘‘Homeless As-
sistance Grants’’ for fiscal years 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018 and 2019 for the continuum of care
(CoC) program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless
Assistance Act, costs paid by program in-
come of grant recipients may count toward
meeting the recipient’s matching require-
ments, provided the costs are eligible CoC
costs that supplement the recipient’s CoC
program.
SEC. 231. (a) From amounts made available
under this title under the heading ‘‘Homeless
Assistance Grants’’, the Secretary may
award 1-year transition grants to recipients
of funds for activities under subtitle C of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from
one Continuum of Care program component
to another.
(b) No more than 50 percent of each transi-
tion grant may be used for costs of eligible
activities of the program component origi-
nally funded.
(c) Transition grants made under this sec-
tion are eligible for renewal in subsequent
fiscal years for the eligible activities of the
new program component.
(d) In order to be eligible to receive a tran-
sition grant, the funding recipient must have
the consent of the Continuum of Care and
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 232. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development to direct
a grantee to undertake specific changes to
existing zoning laws as part of carrying out
the final rule entitled ‘‘Affirmatively Fur-
thering Fair Housing’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 42272
(July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ‘‘Af-
firmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assess-
ment Tool’’ (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 (September
26, 2014)).
SEC. 233. Section 218(g) of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with re-
spect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw
funds from its HOME Investment Trust Fund
that otherwise expired or would expire in
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021 under that
section. Section 231(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
12771(b)) shall not apply to any uninvested
funds that otherwise were deducted or would
be deducted from the line of credit in the
participating jurisdiction’s HOME Invest-
ment Trust Fund in 2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021
under that section.
SEC. 234. Amounts made available in title
II of division K of the Consolidated Appro-
priations Resolution, 2003 (Public Law 108–7)
under the heading ‘‘Indian Housing Loan
Guarantee Fund Program Account’’ for nec-
essary expenses of the Land Title Report
Commission are rescinded.
SEC. 235. (a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development (in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) may
carry out a mobility demonstration program
to enable public housing agencies to admin-
ister housing choice voucher assistance
under section 8(o) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in a man-
ner designed to encourage families receiving
such voucher assistance to move to lower-
poverty areas and expand access to oppor-
tunity areas.
(b) SELECTION OF PHAS.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish requirements for public housing
agencies to participate in the demonstration
program under this section, which shall pro-
vide that the following public housing agen-
cies may participate:
(A) Public housing agencies that to-
gether—
(i) serve areas with high concentrations of
holders of rental assistance vouchers under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in poor, low-oppor-
tunity neighborhoods; and
(ii) have an adequate number of mod-
erately priced rental units in higher-oppor-
tunity areas.
(B) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) include at least one agency with a high-
performing Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS)
program; and
(ii) will enable participating families to
continue in such program if they relocate to
the jurisdiction served by any other agency
of the consortium.
(C) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) serve jurisdictions within a single re-
gion;
(ii) include one or more small agencies;
and
(iii) will consolidate mobility focused oper-
ations.
(D) Such other public housing agencies as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary
shall establish competitive selection criteria
for public housing agencies eligible under
paragraph (1) to participate in the dem-
onstration program under this section.
(3) RANDOM SELECTION OF FAMILIES.—The
Secretary may require participating agen-
cies to use a randomized selection process to
select among the families eligible to receive
mobility assistance under the demonstration
program.
(c) REGIONAL HOUSING MOBILITY PLAN.—
The Secretary shall require each public
housing agency applying to participate in
the demonstration program under this sec-
tion to submit a Regional Housing Mobility
Plan (in this section referred to as a ‘‘Plan’’),
which shall—
(1) identify the public housing agencies
that will participate under the Plan and the
number of vouchers each participating agen-
cy will make available out of their existing
programs in connection with the demonstra-
tion;
(2) identify any community-based organi-
zations, nonprofit organizations, businesses,
and other entities that will participate under
the Plan and describe the commitments for
such participation made by each such entity;
(3) identify any waivers or alternative re-
quirements under subparagraph (e) requested
for the execution of the Plan;
(4) identify any specific actions that the
public housing agencies and other entities
will undertake to accomplish the goals of the
demonstration, which shall include a com-
prehensive approach to enable a successful
transition to opportunity areas and may in-
clude counseling and continued support for
families;
(5) specify the criteria that the public
housing agencies would use to identify op-
portunity areas under the plan;
(6) provide for establishment of priority
and preferences for participating families,
including a preference for families with
young children, as such term is defined by
the Secretary, based on regional housing
needs and priorities; and
(7) comply with any other requirements es-
tablished by the Secretary.
(d) FUNDING FOR MOBILITY-RELATED SERV-
ICES.—
(1) USE OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Public
housing agencies participating in the dem-
onstration program under this section may
use administrative fees under section 8(q) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(q)), their administrative fee re-
serves, and funding from private entities to
provide mobility-related services in connec-
tion with the demonstration program, in-
cluding services such as counseling, port-
ability coordination, landlord outreach, se-
curity deposits, and administrative activi-
ties associated with establishing and oper-
ating regional mobility programs.
(2) USE OF HOUSING ASSISTANCE FUNDS.—
Public housing agencies participating in the
demonstration under this section may use
housing assistance payments funds under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) for security depos-
its if necessary to enable families to lease
units with vouchers in designated oppor-
tunity areas.
(e) WAIVERS; ALTERNATIVE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) WAIVERS.—To allow for public housing
agencies to implement and administer their
Regional Housing Mobility Plans, the Sec-
retary may waive or specify alternative re-
quirements for the following provisions of
the United States Housing Act of 1937:
(A) Sections 8(o)(7)(A) and 8(o)(13)(E)(i) (re-
lating to the term of a lease and mobility re-
quirements).
(B) Section 8(o)(13)(C)(i) (relating to the
public housing plan for an agency).
(C) Section 8(r)(2) (relating to the responsi-
bility of a public housing agency to admin-
ister ported assistance).
(2) ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR CON-
SORTIA.—The Secretary shall provide alter-
native administrative requirements for pub-
lic housing agencies in a selected region to—
(A) form a consortium that has a single
housing choice voucher funding contract; or
(B) enter into a partial consortium to oper-
ate all or portions of the Regional Housing
Mobility Plan, which may include agencies
participating in the Moving To Work Dem-
onstration program.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Any waiver or alter-
native requirements pursuant to this sub-
section shall not take effect before the expi-
ration of the 10-day period beginning upon
publication of notice of such waiver or alter-
native requirement in the Federal Register.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may
implement the demonstration, including its
terms, procedures, requirements, and condi-
tions, by notice.
(g) EVALUATION.—Not later than five years
after implementation of the regional housing
mobility programs under the demonstration
program under this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Congress and publish in
the Federal Register a report evaluating the
effectiveness of the strategies pursued under
the demonstration, subject to the avail-
ability of funding to conduct the evaluation.
Through official websites and other methods,
the Secretary shall disseminate interim find-
ings as they become available, and shall, if
promising strategies are identified, notify
the Congress of the amount of funds that
would be required to expand the testing of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S457
January 22, 2019
these strategies in additional types of public
housing agencies and housing markets.
(h) TERMINATION.—The demonstration pro-
gram under this section shall terminate on
October 1, 2028.
SEC. 236. Section 221 of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development Appropria-
tions Act, 2015 (42 U.S.C. 1437f–1; Public Law
113–235; 128 Stat 2754) is repealed.
SEC. 237. The Promise Zone designations
and Promise Zone Designation Agreements
entered into pursuant to such designations,
made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development in prior fiscal years, shall re-
main in effect in accordance with the terms
and conditions of such agreements.
SEC. 238. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to establish and
apply review criteria, including rating fac-
tors or preference points, for participation in
or coordination with EnVision Centers, in
the evaluation, selection, and award of any
funds made available and requiring competi-
tive selection under this Act, except with re-
spect to any such funds otherwise authorized
for EnVision Center purposes under this Act.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
ACCESS BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the Access
Board, as authorized by section 502 of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
$8,400,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, there may be
credited to this appropriation funds received
for publications and training expenses.
FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Mar-
itime Commission as authorized by section
201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances there-
fore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902,
$27,490,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses.
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General for the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation to carry out the pro-
visions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
as amended, $23,274,000: Provided, That the
Inspector General shall have all necessary
authority, in carrying out the duties speci-
fied in the Inspector General Act, as amend-
ed (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allega-
tions of fraud, including false statements to
the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any per-
son or entity that is subject to regulation by
the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion: Provided further, That the Inspector
General may enter into contracts and other
arrangements for audits, studies, analyses,
and other services with public agencies and
with private persons, subject to the applica-
ble laws and regulations that govern the ob-
taining of such services within the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided
further, That the Inspector General may se-
lect, appoint, and employ such officers and
employees as may be necessary for carrying
out the functions, powers, and duties of the
Office of Inspector General, subject to the
applicable laws and regulations that govern
such selections, appointments, and employ-
ment within the Corporation: Provided fur-
ther, That concurrent with the President’s
budget request for fiscal year 2020, the In-
spector General shall submit to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a
budget request for fiscal year 2020 in similar
format and substance to those submitted by
executive agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Transportation Safety Board, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS–15;
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–5902), $110,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for
official reception and representation ex-
penses. The amounts made available to the
National Transportation Safety Board in
this Act include amounts necessary to make
lease payments on an obligation incurred in
fiscal year 2001 for a capital lease.
NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
For payment to the Neighborhood Rein-
vestment Corporation for use in neighbor-
hood reinvestment activities, as authorized
by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 8101–8107), $150,000,000, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family
rental housing program: Provided, That an
additional $2,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, shall be for the pro-
motion and development of shared equity
housing models.
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Surface
Transportation Board, including services au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees estab-
lished by the Chairman of the Surface Trans-
portation Board shall be credited to this ap-
propriation as offsetting collections and used
for necessary and authorized expenses under
this heading: Provided further, That the sum
herein appropriated from the general fund
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis
as such offsetting collections are received
during fiscal year 2019, to result in a final ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at no more than $35,850,000.
UNITED STATES INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON
HOMELESSNESS
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms, and the employment of ex-
perts and consultants under section 3109 of
title 5, United States Code) of the United
States Interagency Council on Homelessness
in carrying out the functions pursuant to
title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless As-
sistance Act, as amended, $3,600,000: Provided,
That the first proviso in Public Law 115–141
under the heading ‘‘United States Inter-
agency Council on Homelessness—Operating
Expenses’’ is amended by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2028’’.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 401. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 402. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 403. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through a procurement contract pursu-
ant to section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, shall be limited to those contracts
where such expenditures are a matter of pub-
lic record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 404. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended for any employee training that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 405. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that—
(1) creates a new program;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel for any
program, project, or activity for which funds
have been denied or restricted by the Con-
gress;
(4) proposes to use funds directed for a spe-
cific activity by either the House or Senate
Committees on Appropriations for a dif-
ferent purpose;
(5) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 per-
cent, whichever is less;
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or
activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, which-
ever is less; or
(7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a
branch, division, office, bureau, board, com-
mission, agency, administration, or depart-
ment different from the budget justifications
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions or the table accompanying the joint ex-
planatory statement accompanying this Act,
whichever is more detailed, unless prior ap-
proval is received from the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, each agency funded
by this Act shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
of the House of Representatives to establish
the baseline for application of reprogram-
ming and transfer authorities for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That the report
shall include—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S458 January 22, 2019
(A) a table for each appropriation with a
separate column to display the prior year en-
acted level, the President’s budget request,
adjustments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level;
(B) a delineation in the table for each ap-
propriation and its respective prior year en-
acted level by object class and program,
project, and activity as detailed in this Act,
the table accompanying the explanatory
statement accompanying this Act, accom-
panying reports of the House and Senate
Committee on Appropriations, or in the
budget appendix for the respective appro-
priations, whichever is more detailed, and
shall apply to all items for which a dollar
amount is specified and to all programs for
which new budget (obligational) authority is
provided, as well as to discretionary grants
and discretionary grant allocations; and
(C) an identification of items of special
congressional interest.
SEC. 406. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations for approval prior to
the expenditure of such funds: Provided fur-
ther, That these requests shall be made in
compliance with reprogramming guidelines
under section 405 of this Act.
SEC. 407. No funds in this Act may be used
to support any Federal, State, or local
projects that seek to use the power of emi-
nent domain, unless eminent domain is em-
ployed only for a public use: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, public use shall
not be construed to include economic devel-
opment that primarily benefits private enti-
ties: Provided further, That any use of funds
for mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or
highway projects, as well as utility projects
which benefit or serve the general public (in-
cluding energy-related, communication-re-
lated, water-related and wastewater-related
infrastructure), other structures designated
for use by the general public or which have
other common-carrier or public-utility func-
tions that serve the general public and are
subject to regulation and oversight by the
government, and projects for the removal of
an immediate threat to public health and
safety or brownfields as defined in the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields
Revitalization Act (Public Law 107–118) shall
be considered a public use for purposes of
eminent domain.
SEC. 408. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 409. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available to pay
the salary for any person filling a position,
other than a temporary position, formerly
held by an employee who has left to enter
the Armed Forces of the United States and
has satisfactorily completed his or her pe-
riod of active military or naval service, and
has within 90 days after his or her release
from such service or from hospitalization
continuing after discharge for a period of not
more than 1 year, made application for res-
toration to his or her former position and
has been certified by the Office of Personnel
Management as still qualified to perform the
duties of his or her former position and has
not been restored thereto.
SEC. 410. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with sec-
tions 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933
(41 U.S.C. 8301–8305, popularly known as the
‘‘Buy American Act’’).
SEC. 411. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating the Buy
American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301–8305).
SEC. 412. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for first-class airline
accommodations in contravention of sec-
tions 301–10.122 and 301–10.123 of title 41, Code
of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 413. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to approve a
new foreign air carrier permit under sections
41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States
Code, or exemption application under section
40109 of that title of an air carrier already
holding an air operators certificate issued by
a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Ice-
land-Norway Air Transport Agreement
where such approval would contravene
United States law or Article 17 bis of the
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport
Agreement.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict or otherwise preclude the Secretary
of Transportation from granting a foreign
air carrier permit or an exemption to such
an air carrier where such authorization is
consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Nor-
way Air Transport Agreement and United
States law.
SEC. 414. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of a single agency or department of
the United States Government, who are sta-
tioned in the United States, at any single
international conference unless the relevant
Secretary reports to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations at least 5
days in advance that such attendance is im-
portant to the national interest: Provided,
That for purposes of this section the term
‘‘international conference’’ shall mean a
conference occurring outside of the United
States attended by representatives of the
United States Government and of foreign
governments, international organizations, or
nongovernmental organizations.
SEC. 415. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available under this Act may
be used by the Surface Transportation Board
to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or
practice complaints filed with the Board in
an amount in excess of the amount author-
ized for district court civil suit filing fees
under section 1914 of title 28, United States
Code.
SEC. 416. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Transportation, the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, or any other
Federal agency to lease or purchase new
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or
for an agency’s fleet inventory, except in ac-
cordance with Presidential Memorandum—
Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24,
2011.
SEC. 417. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 418. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to deny an In-
spector General funded under this Act timely
access to any records, documents, or other
materials available to the department or
agency over which that Inspector General
has responsibilities under the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent
or impede that Inspector General’s access to
such records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to the In-
spector General and expressly limits the In-
spector General’s right of access.
(b) A department or agency covered by this
section shall provide its Inspector General
with access to all such records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) Each Inspector General shall ensure
compliance with statutory limitations on
disclosure relevant to the information pro-
vided by the establishment over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) Each Inspector General covered by this
section shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate within 5 calendar days
any failures to comply with this require-
ment.
SEC. 419. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to pay award or incentive fees for con-
tractors whose performance has been judged
to be below satisfactory, behind schedule,
over budget, or has failed to meet the basic
requirements of a contract, unless the Agen-
cy determines that any such deviations are
due to unforeseeable events, government-
driven scope changes, or are not significant
within the overall scope of the project and/or
program unless such awards or incentive fees
are consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 420. For an additional amount for the
‘‘Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement
Financing Program’’ account for the cost of
modifications, as defined by section 502 of
the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of di-
rect loans issued pursuant to sections 501
through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public
Law 94–210), as amended, and included in co-
hort 1, as defined by the Department of
Transportation’s memorandum to the Office
of Management and Budget dated November
5, 2018, $17,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That, for a direct loan
included in cohort 1, as defined in the memo-
randum described in the previous proviso,
that has satisfied all obligations attached to
such loan, the Secretary shall repay the
credit risk premiums of such loan, with in-
terest accrued thereon, not later than 60
days after the enactment of this Act or, for
a direct loan included in cohort 1 with obli-
gations that have not yet been satisfied, not
later than 60 days after the date on which all
obligations attached to such loan have been
satisfied.
SEC. 421. Section 127(l) of title 23, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL HIGHWAY SEGMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If any segment of high-
way described in clause (i) or (ii) of this sub-
paragraph is designated as a route of the
Interstate System, a vehicle that could oper-
ate legally on that segment before the date
of such designation may continue to operate
on that segment, without regard to any re-
quirement under subsection (a), except that
such vehicle shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of 120,000 pounds. The highway seg-
ments referred to in this paragraph are as
follows:
‘‘(i) The William H. Natcher Parkway (to
be designated as a spur of Interstate Route
65) from Interstate Route 65 in Bowling
Green, Kentucky, to United States Route 60
in Owensboro, Kentucky.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S459
January 22, 2019
‘‘(ii) The Julian M. Carroll (Purchase)
Parkway (to be designated as Interstate
Route 69) in Kentucky from the Tennessee
state line to the interchange with Interstate
Route 24, near Calvert City.
‘‘(B) NONDIVISIBLE LOAD OR VEHICLE.—Noth-
ing in this paragraph shall prohibit the State
from issuing a permit for a nondivisible load
or vehicle with a gross vehicle weight that
exceeds 120,000 pounds.’’.
SEC. 422. Section 127(s) of title 23, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting the following: ‘‘(s) NATURAL GAS
AND ELECTRIC BATTERY VEHICLES’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or powered primarily by
means of electric battery power’’ after the
first time ‘‘natural gas’’ appears;
(3) by striking ‘‘any vehicle weight limit’’
and inserting ‘‘the weight limit on the power
unit by up to 2,000 pounds’’; and
(4) by striking all that follows after ‘‘under
this section’’ and inserting a period after
‘‘section’’.
SEC. 423. Section 31112(c) of title 49, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading by striking
‘‘AND KANSAS’’ and inserting ‘‘KANSAS, AND
OREGON’’;
(2) in paragraph (4) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (5) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) Oregon may allow the operation of a
truck tractor and 2 property-carrying units
not in actual lawful operation on a regular
or periodic basis on June 1, 1991, if—
‘‘(A) the length of the property-carrying
units does not exceed 82 feet 8 inches;
‘‘(B) the combination is used only to trans-
port sugar beets; and
‘‘(C) the operation occurs on United States
Route 20, United States Route 26, United
States Route 30, or Oregon Route 201 in the
vicinity, or between any, of—
‘‘(i) Vale, Oregon;
‘‘(ii) Ontario, Oregon; or
‘‘(iii) Nyssa, Oregon.’’.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
DIVISION H—ADDITIONAL SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DIS-
ASTER RELIEF, 2019
The following sums in this division are ap-
propriated, out of any money in the Treas-
ury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael or Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, typhoons, volcanic
activity, or wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018 under such terms and conditions as
determined by the Secretary: Provided, That
the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eli-
gible states and territories and such assist-
ance may include compensation to pro-
ducers, as determined by the Secretary, for
past or future crop insurance premiums, for-
est restoration, and poultry and livestock
losses: Provided further, That of the amounts
provided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy and
losses of peach and blueberry crops in cal-
endar year 2017 due to extreme cold: Pro-
vided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S460 January 22, 2019
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018 under
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), $600,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, up to 2 percent of funds may be
transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’
account for administration and oversight ac-
tivities: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for carrying out investigations
and audits related to the funding provided
under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
FISHERIES DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fisheries
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018
wildfires, volcanic eruptions, and earth-
quakes, $15,000,000: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this division to the
Legal Services Corporation shall be expended
for any purpose prohibited or limited by, or
contrary to any of the provisions of, sections
501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law
105–119, and all funds appropriated in this di-
vision to the Legal Services Corporation
shall be subject to the same terms and condi-
tions set forth in such sections, except that
all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997
and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to
2018 and 2019, respectively, and except that
sections 501 and 503 of Public Law 104–134
(referenced by Public Law 105–119) shall not
apply to the amount made available under
this heading: Provided further, That, for the
purposes of this division, the Legal Services
Corporation shall be considered an agency of
the United States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this division, to reduce
risk from future floods and hurricanes, at
full Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for high priority
studies of projects in States and insular
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm
Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, including new studies selected
to be initiated using funds provided under
this heading, beginning not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this division,
and flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which
have signed Chief’s Reports as of the date of
enactment of this division or which are stud-
ied using funds provided under the heading
‘‘Investigations’’ if the Secretary determines
such projects to be technically feasible, eco-
nomically justified, and environmentally ac-
ceptable, in States and insular areas that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S461
January 22, 2019
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That projects receiving funds provided under
the first proviso in ‘‘Title IV—Corps of Engi-
neers—Civil—Department of the Army—Con-
struction’’ in Public Law 115–123 shall not be
eligible for funding provided under this head-
ing: Provided further, That for projects re-
ceiving funds provided under this heading,
the provisions of Section 902 of the Water
Resources Act of 1986 shall not apply to these
funds: Provided further, That the completion
of ongoing construction projects receiving
funds provided under this heading shall be at
full Federal expense with respect to such
funds: Provided further, That using funds pro-
vided under this heading, the non-Federal
cash contribution for projects other than on-
going construction projects shall be financed
in accordance with the provisions of section
103(k) of Public Law 99–662 over a period of 30
years from the date of completion of the
project or separable element: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made
available under this heading shall be used for
continuing authorities projects to reduce the
risk of flooding and storm damage: Provided
further, That any projects using funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be initiated
only after non-Federal interests have en-
tered into binding agreements with the Sec-
retary requiring, where applicable, the non-
Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
and rehabilitation costs of the project and to
hold and save the United States free from
damages due to the construction or oper-
ation and maintenance of the project, except
for damages due to the fault or negligence of
the United States or its contractors: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this division.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this division, the Survey
shall submit a report to the Committees on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S462 January 22, 2019
Appropriations that describes the potential
options to replace the facility damaged by
the 2018 volcano disaster along with cost es-
timates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent amount of its cap-
italization grants to provide additional sub-
sidization to eligible recipients in the form
of forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That the Administrator
shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for grants for drinking water
facilities and waste water treatment plants
impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided further,
That the funds appropriated herein shall be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to
reduce flood or fire damage risk and vulner-
ability or to enhance resiliency to rapid hy-
drologic change or natural disaster at treat-
ment works as defined by section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any
eligible facilities under section 1452 of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other eligi-
ble tasks at such treatment works or facili-
ties necessary to further such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency may re-
tain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated
herein for management and oversight: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the agen-
cies receiving funds appropriated by this
title shall provide a detailed operating plan
of anticipated uses of funds made available
in this title by State and Territory, and by
program, project, and activity, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S463
January 22, 2019
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires or earth-
quakes occurring in 2018 (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
of Labor may transfer up to $1,000,000 of such
funds to any other Department of Labor ac-
count for reconstruction and recovery needs,
including worker protection activities: Pro-
vided further, That these sums may be used
to replace grant funds previously obligated
to the impacted areas: Provided further, That
of the amount provided, up to $500,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
transferred to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’
for oversight of activities responding to such
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $80,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021, for Head Start programs, for necessary
expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut and Super Ty-
phoon Yutu, and wildfires or earthquakes oc-
curring in 2018 in those areas for which a
major disaster or emergency has been de-
clared under section 401 or 501 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191), in-
cluding making payments under the Head
Start Act: Provided, That none of the funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall be in-
cluded in the calculation of the ‘‘base grant’’
in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is
defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A), 641A(h)(1)(B),
or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start Act: Provided
further, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph are not subject to the allocation re-
quirements of section 640(a) of the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated in this paragraph shall not be
available for costs that are reimbursed by
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, under a contract for insurance, or by self-
insurance: Provided further, That up to
$2,000,000 shall be available for Federal ad-
ministrative expenses: Provided further, That
obligations incurred for the purposes pro-
vided herein prior to the date of enactment
of this division may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Health and Social Services Emergency
Fund’’, $166,000,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses directly related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut and Super Typhoon Yutu,
and wildfires or earthquakes occurring in
2018 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tions 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), including activities authorized
under section 319(a) of the Public Health
Service Act (referred to in this division as
the ‘‘PHS Act’’): Provided, That of the
amount provided, $45,000,000 shall be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration—Primary Health Care’’ for ex-
penses directly related to a covered disaster
or emergency for disaster response and re-
covery, for the Health Centers Program
under section 330 of the PHS Act, including
alteration, renovation, construction, equip-
ment, and other capital improvement costs
as necessary to meet the needs of areas af-
fected by a covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the time limitation in
section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not
apply to funds made available under the pre-
ceding proviso: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, not less than $20,000,000
shall be transferred to ‘‘Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—CDC-Wide Activi-
ties and Program Support’’ for response, re-
covery, mitigation, and other expenses di-
rectly related to a covered disaster or emer-
gency: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be
transferred to ‘‘Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration—Health
Surveillance and Program Support’’ for
grants, contracts, and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, treatment of substance use dis-
orders, and other related helplines, and for
other similar programs to provide support to
individuals impacted by a covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of the Secretary—Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ for oversight of activities re-
sponding to such hurricanes, typhoons, and
wildfires: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses
directly related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
wildfires, earthquakes, or volcanic eruptions
in 2018 in those areas for which a major dis-
aster or emergency has been declared under
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to
under this heading as a ‘‘covered disaster or
emergency’’), $165,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2021: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That such as-
sistance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in
division B of title VIII of Public Law 115–123
(as amended by Public Law 115–141), as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that ap-
plied to those programs, except that ref-
erences to dates and school years in Public
Law 115–123 shall be deemed to be the cor-
responding dates and school years for the
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary of Education may
determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obli-
gation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise provided for by
this title, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this division, the Government
Accountability Office shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a spend
plan specifying funding estimates for audits
and investigations of any such declared dis-
asters occurring in 2018 and identifying fund-
ing estimates or carryover balances, if any,
that may be available for audits and inves-
tigations of any other such declared disas-
ters: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations
and a form 1391 for each specific project: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S464 January 22, 2019
after enactment of this division, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, or his designee, shall
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate a detailed expenditure plan for funds pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this division, the Secretary of the
Air Force, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this division, the Director
of the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this division and
the same heading in division I of Public Law
115–254 bears to the amount of all funds pro-
vided to all grantees that received alloca-
tions for disasters that occurred in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, the Sec-
retary shall allocate to all such grantees an
aggregate amount not less than 33 percent of
the sum of such amounts of funds within 120
days after the enactment of this division
based on the best available data, and shall
allocate no less than 100 percent of such
funds by no later than 180 days after the en-
actment of this division: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall not prohibit the use
of funds made available under this heading
and the same heading in Public Law 115–254
for non-Federal share as authorized by sec-
tion 105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, grantees may
establish grant programs to assist small
businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has es-
tablished adequate procedures to prevent
any duplication of benefits as defined by sec-
tion 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of
funds, to maintain comprehensive websites
regarding all disaster recovery activities as-
sisted with these funds, and to detect and
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall
act in accordance with section 1210 of Public
Law 115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):
Provided further, That the Secretary shall re-
quire grantees to maintain on a public
website information containing common re-
porting criteria established by the Depart-
ment that permits individuals and entities
awaiting assistance and the general public to
see how all grant funds are used, including
copies of all relevant procurement docu-
ments, grantee administrative contracts and
details of ongoing procurement processes, as
determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary
for approval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastruc-
ture and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas: Provided further, That such
funds may not be used for activities reim-
bursed by, or for which funds have been made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S465
January 22, 2019
available by, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency or the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, in excess of the authorized amount of
the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-
disaster formula allocations made pursuant
to section 106 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Pro-
vided further, That a State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe may use up
to 5 percent of its allocation for administra-
tive costs: Provided further, That the first
proviso under this heading in the Supple-
mental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public
Law 115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State
or unit of general local government’’ and in-
serting ‘‘State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined
in section 102 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’:
Provided further, That the sixth proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or sub-
division thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit
of general local government, or Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this divi-
sion or in division I of Public Law 115–254
that are allocated in response to Hurricane
Florence may be used interchangeably and
without limitation for the same activities in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
lated to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD pub-
lishes the Federal Register Notice imple-
menting this provision, grantees may submit
for HUD approval revised plans for the use of
funds related to Hurricane Matthew that ex-
pand the eligible beneficiaries of existing
programs contained in such previously ap-
proved plans to include those impacted by
Hurricane Florence. Approval of any such re-
vised plans shall include the execution of re-
vised grant terms and conditions as nec-
essary. Once the implementing Notice is
published, any additional action plan revi-
sions shall follow the requirements con-
tained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this division or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS DIVISION
SEC. 1101. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this division is in addition
to amounts otherwise appropriated for the
fiscal year involved.
SEC. 1102. No part of any appropriation
contained in this division shall remain avail-
able for obligation beyond the current fiscal
year unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1103. Unless otherwise provided for by
this division, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this division to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1104. Each amount designated in this
division by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1105. For purposes of this division, the
consequences or impacts of any hurricane
shall include damages caused by the storm
at any time during the entirety of its dura-
tion as a cyclone, as defined by the National
Hurricane Center.
SEC. 1106. Any amount appropriated by this
division, designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and
subsequently so designated by the President,
and transferred pursuant to transfer authori-
ties provided by this division shall retain
such designation.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Addi-
tional Supplemental Appropriations for Dis-
aster Relief, 2019’’.
DIVISION I—EXTENSIONS, TECHNICAL
CORRECTIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS
TITLE I
IMMIGRATION EXTENSIONS
SEC. 101. Section 401(b) of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note) shall
be applied by substituting ‘‘September 30,
2019’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2015’’.
SEC. 102. Subclauses 101(a)(27)(C)(ii)(II) and
(III) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(C)(ii)(II) and (III)) shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S466 January 22, 2019
be applied by substituting ‘‘September 30,
2019’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2015’’.
SEC. 103. Section 220(c) of the Immigration
and Nationality Technical Corrections Act of
1994 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note) shall be applied by
substituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2015’’.
SEC. 104. Section 610(b) of the Departments
of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judici-
ary, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 1993 (8 U.S.C. 1153 note) shall be applied
by substituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for
‘‘September 30, 2015’’.
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding the numerical
limitation set forth in section 214(g)(1)(B) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)(B)), the Secretary of Home-
land Security, after consultation with the
Secretary of Labor, and upon the determina-
tion that the needs of American businesses
cannot be satisfied in fiscal year 2019 with
United States workers who are willing,
qualified, and able to perform temporary
nonagricultural labor, may increase the
total number of aliens who may receive a
visa under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of such
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b)) in such fis-
cal year above such limitation by not more
than the highest number of H–2B non-
immigrants who participated in the H–2B re-
turning worker program in any fiscal year in
which returning workers were exempt from
such numerical limitation.
TITLE II
PESTICIDE REGISTRATION
IMPROVEMENT ACT EXTENSION
SEC. 201. (a) The following sections of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act shall continue in effect
through September 30, 2019—
(1) subparagraphs (C) through (E) of sec-
tion 4(i)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(1)(C)–(E));
(2) section 4(k)(3) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)(3));
(3) section 4(k)(4) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)(4));
and
(4) section 33(c)(3)(B) (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(c)(3)(B)).
(b)(1) Section 4(i)(1)(I) of the Federal Insec-
ticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7
U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(1)(I)) shall be applied by sub-
stituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2017’’.
(2) Notwithstanding section 33(m)(2) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–8(m)(2)), sec-
tion 33(m)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(m)(1)) shall be applied by substituting
‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30,
2017’’.
(c) Section 408(m)(3) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 346a(m)(3))
shall be applied by substituting ‘‘September
30, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2017’’.
TITLE III
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
EXTENSION
SEC. 301. Any program, authority, or provi-
sion, including any pilot program, author-
ized under the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4;
127 Stat. 54) shall continue in effect through
September 30, 2019.
TITLE IV
PANDEMIC AND ALL-HAZARDS
PREPAREDNESS EXTENSIONS
SEC. 401. Section 319L(e)(1)(A) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(e)(1)(A)) shall continue in effect through
September 30, 2019.
SEC. 402. Section 405(a) of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–6a note) shall continue in effect through
September 30, 2019.
TITLE V
TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY
FAMILIES PROGRAM EXTENSION
SEC. 501. Activities authorized by part A of
title IV and section 1108(b) of the Social Se-
curity Act shall continue through June 30,
2019, in the manner authorized for fiscal year
2018, and out of any money in the Treasury
of the United States not otherwise appro-
priated, there are hereby appropriated such
sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
TITLE VI
TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
SEC. 601. (a) Section 3(20)(B) of the Carl D.
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act
of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302(20)(B)), as amended by
section 7 of the Strengthening Career and
Technical Education for the 21st Century
Act (Public Law 115–224), is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, except that, for the purpose of sec-
tion 132, the term ‘recognized postsecondary
credential’ as used in this subparagraph shall
not include a baccalaureate degree’’ after
‘‘associate degree’’.
(b) The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect on July 1, 2019, as if in-
cluded in the Strengthening Career and
Technical Education for the 21st Century
Act (Public Law 115–224).
SEC. 602. Section 243 of title II of division
C of Public Law 115–244 is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘248’’ after ‘‘section’’.
SEC. 603. Section 177 of division C of Public
Law 114–223, as amended by Public Law 114–
254, is amended by inserting ‘‘and the 116th
Congress’’ after ‘‘the 115th Congress’’ in each
instance it appears.
SEC. 604. (a) During fiscal year 2019 and
each succeeding fiscal year, amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for the
Architect of the Capitol under the heading
‘‘House Office Buildings’’ may be transferred
to the House of Representatives and merged
with and made available under the heading
‘‘Allowances and Expenses’’, subject to the
approval of the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives.
(b) The period of availability of any
amounts transferred to the House of Rep-
resentatives under this section shall be the
same period of availability applicable to
such amounts as appropriated for the Archi-
tect of the Capitol.
SEC. 605. Amounts made available in divi-
sions A through G of this Act for personnel
pay, allowances, and benefits in each depart-
ment and agency shall be available for obli-
gations incurred pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
SEC. 606. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by divisions A through G
of this Act for the purposes of maintaining
the essential level of activity to protect life
and property and bringing about orderly ter-
mination of Government function, and for
purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are
hereby ratified and approved if otherwise in
accord with the provisions of divisions A
through G of this Act.
SEC. 607. For the purposes of this division
and divisions A through G of this Act, the
time covered by those divisions shall be con-
sidered to include the period which began on
or about December 22, 2018, during which
there occurred a lapse in appropriations.
SEC. 608. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘State’’ and the term ‘‘grantee’’ shall have
the meaning as such term is defined under
the applicable Federal program under sub-
section (a). In addition, ‘‘to continue car-
rying out a Federal program’’ means the
continued performance by a State or other
Federal grantee, during the period of a lapse
in appropriations, of a Federal program that
the State or such other grantee had been
carrying out prior to the period of the lapse
in appropriations.
(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.
SEC. 609. Subsection (c)(2) of section 1341 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by
inserting ‘‘, and subject to the enactment of
appropriations Acts ending the lapse’’ before
the period.
TITLE VII
HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND
SEC. 701. In subsequent fiscal years, any
discretionary appropriation derived from the
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (not to ex-
ceed the total amount deposited in the Har-
bor Maintenance Trust Fund in the prior fis-
cal year) shall be subtracted from the esti-
mate of discretionary budget authority and
outlays for any estimate of an appropria-
tions Act under the Congressional Budget
and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 or the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VIII
CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
BUREAU–INSPECTOR GENERAL REFORM
SHORT TITLE
SEC. 801. This title may be cited as the
‘‘Consumer Financial Protection Bureau–In-
spector General Reform Act’’.
APPOINTMENT OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SEC. 802. The Inspector General Act of 1978
(5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) in section 8G—
(A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘and
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion’’;
(B) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘For pur-
poses of implementing this section’’ and all
that follows through the end of the sub-
section; and
(C) in subsection (g)(3), by striking ‘‘and
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion’’; and
(2) in section 12—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S467
January 22, 2019
Protection;’’ after ‘‘the President of the Ex-
port-Import Bank;’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection,’’
after ‘‘the Export-Import Bank,’’.
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
FOR THE BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL
PROTECTION
SEC. 803. (a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 1011
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5491) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR’’ and inserting ‘‘,
DEPUTY DIRECTOR, AND INSPECTOR GENERAL’’;
and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—There is estab-
lished the position of the Inspector Gen-
eral.’’; and
(2) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘or Dep-
uty Director’’ each place it appears and in-
serting ‘‘, Deputy Director, or Inspector Gen-
eral’’.
(b) FUNDING FOR OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL.—Section 1017(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protec-
tion Act (12 U.S.C. 5497(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (D); and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) FUNDING FOR OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Beginning in the first fis-
cal year beginning after the date that is 6
months after the date of enactment of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau–In-
spector General Reform Act, each fiscal year
(or quarter of such fiscal year), the Board of
Governors shall transfer to the Inspector
General from the combined earnings of the
Federal Reserve System the amount deter-
mined by the Inspector General to be reason-
ably necessary to carry out the authorities
of the Inspector General, taking into ac-
count such other sums made available to the
Inspector General from the preceding fiscal
year (or quarter of such fiscal year).
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—Funds transferred each
fiscal year under clause (i) shall not exceed
2 percent of the maximum amount eligible to
be transferred to the Bureau pursuant to
paragraph (1) and shall not be considered in
calculating the funding cap for the Bureau
established under subparagraph (A).’’.
(c) PARTICIPATION IN THE COUNCIL OF IN-
SPECTORS GENERAL ON FINANCIAL OVER-
SIGHT.—Section 989E(a)(1) of such Act is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(J) The Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection.’’.
EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 804. The amendments made by this
title shall take effect on the date that is 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
TRANSITION PERIOD
SEC. 805. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Inspector
General of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection shall serve
in that position and maintain all of its au-
thorities until an Inspector General of the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection—
(1) has been confirmed; and
(2) submits to Congress a written notifica-
tion that the powers and authorities of the
Inspector General of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System and the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection can
be orderly transferred to the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection without interruption or lapse in
oversight responsibilities.
(b) INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE BOARD OF
GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYS-
TEM.—On the date on which the Inspector
General of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection submits the written notification
required under subsection (a), the Inspector
General of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection shall become
the Inspector General of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System.
TITLE IX
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 901. (a) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORE-
CARDS.—The budgetary effects of this divi-
sion and each succeeding division shall not
be entered on either PAYGO scorecard main-
tained pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statu-
tory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
(b) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this division and each
succeeding division shall not be entered on
any PAYGO scorecard maintained for pur-
poses of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th
Congress).
(c) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(8) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of
this division and each succeeding division
shall not be estimated—
(1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
and
(2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of sec-
tion 3 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 as being included in an appropriation
Act.
(d) PAYGO ANNUAL REPORT.—For the pur-
poses of the annual report issued pursuant to
section 5 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go
Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 934) after adjournment
of the second session of the 115th Congress,
and for determining whether a sequestration
order is necessary under such section, the
debit for the budget year on the 5-year score-
card, if any, and the 10-year scorecard, if
any, shall be deducted from such scorecard
in 2019 and added to such scorecard in 2020.
DIVISION J—VULNERABLE IMMIGRANTS
PROTECTION AND SECURITY ACT
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Vulner-
able Immigrants Protection and Security
Act’’.
SEC. 102. PROVISIONAL PROTECTED PRESENCE
FOR YOUNG INDIVIDUALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 4 of title II of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1221 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 244A. PROVISIONAL PROTECTED PRES-
ENCE.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CRIMINAL GANG.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘criminal
gang’ means an ongoing group, club, organi-
zation, or association of 5 or more persons—
‘‘(i) that has, as 1 of its primary purposes,
the commission of 1 or more of the criminal
offenses listed in subparagraph (B), whether
in violation of Federal or State law or for-
eign law and regardless of whether the of-
fenses occurred before, on, or after the date
of the enactment of this section; and
‘‘(ii) the members of which engage, or have
engaged during the past 5 years, in a con-
tinuing series of such offenses.
‘‘(B) CRIMINAL OFFENSES.—The criminal of-
fenses listed in this subparagraph are—
‘‘(i) a felony drug offense (as defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 802));
‘‘(ii) a felony offense involving firearms or
explosives or in violation of section 931 of
title 18, United States Code (relating to pur-
chase, ownership, or possession of body
armor by violent felons);
‘‘(iii) an offense under section 274 (relating
to bringing in and harboring certain aliens),
section 277 (relating to aiding or assisting
certain aliens to enter the United States), or
section 278 (relating to importation of alien
for immoral purpose);
‘‘(iv) an offense that—
‘‘(I) has, as an element of the offense, the
use, attempted use, or threatened use of vio-
lent physical force against the person or
property of another; or
‘‘(II) by its nature, involves a substantial
risk that violent physical force against the
person or property of another may be used in
the course of committing the offense;
‘‘(v) a crime involving obstruction of jus-
tice or tampering with or retaliating against
a witness, victim, or informant;
‘‘(vi) any conduct punishable under—
‘‘(I) section 1028A or 1029 of title 18, United
States Code (relating to aggravated identity
theft or fraud and related activity in connec-
tion with identification documents or access
devices);
‘‘(II) sections 1581 through 1594 of such title
(relating to peonage, slavery, and trafficking
in persons);
‘‘(III) section 1951 of such title (relating to
interference with commerce by threats or vi-
olence);
‘‘(IV) section 1952 of such title (relating to
interstate and foreign travel or transpor-
tation in aid of racketeering enterprises);
‘‘(V) section 1956 of such title (relating to
the laundering of monetary instruments);
‘‘(VI) section 1957 of such title (relating to
engaging in monetary transactions in prop-
erty derived from specified unlawful activ-
ity); or
‘‘(VII) sections 2312 through 2315 of such
title (relating to interstate transportation of
stolen motor vehicles or stolen property);
and
‘‘(vii) a conspiracy to commit any of the
offenses described in clauses (i) through (vi).
‘‘(2) DACA RECIPIENT.—The term ‘DACA re-
cipient’ means an alien who was granted de-
ferred action status on or before the date of
the enactment of this section pursuant to
the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
(‘DACA’) Program announced on June 15,
2012.
‘‘(3) FELONY.—The term ‘felony’ means a
Federal, State, or local criminal offense pun-
ishable by imprisonment for a term exceed-
ing 1 year.
‘‘(4) MISDEMEANOR.—The term ‘mis-
demeanor’ means a Federal, State, or local
criminal offense for which the maximum
term of imprisonment is not longer than 1
year.
‘‘(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
‘‘(6) SEXUAL ASSAULT OR HARASSMENT.—The
term ‘sexual assault or harassment’ means—
‘‘(A) conduct engaged in by an alien who is
at least 18 years of age, consisting of unwel-
come sexual advances, requests for sexual fa-
vors, or other verbal or physical conduct of
a sexual nature if—
‘‘(i) submission to such conduct is made ei-
ther explicitly or implicitly a term or condi-
tion of an individual’s employment;
‘‘(ii) submission to, or rejection of, such
conduct by an individual is used as the basis
for employment decisions affecting such in-
dividual; or
‘‘(iii) such conduct has the purpose or ef-
fect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive environment;
‘‘(B) conduct constituting the criminal of-
fense of rape, statutory rape, or any offense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S468 January 22, 2019
of a sexual nature involving a victim who
was younger than 18 years of age;
‘‘(C) sexual conduct with—
‘‘(i) a minor who was younger than 14 years
of age; or
‘‘(ii) a minor who was younger than 16
years of age if the perpetrator was at least 4
years older than the minor;
‘‘(D) conduct punishable under section 2251
or 2251A of title 18, United States Code (re-
lating to the sexual exploitation of children
and the selling or buying of children), or sec-
tion 2252 or 2252A of such title (relating to
certain activities relating to material in-
volving the sexual exploitation of minors or
relating to material constituting or con-
taining child pornography); or
‘‘(E) conduct constituting the elements of
any other Federal or State sexual offense re-
quiring a defendant, if convicted, to register
on a sexual offender registry (except that
this provision shall not apply to convictions
solely for urinating or defecating in public).
‘‘(7) SIGNIFICANT MISDEMEANOR.—The term
‘significant misdemeanor’ means a Federal,
State, or local criminal offense for which the
maximum term of imprisonment is not
longer than 1 year that—
‘‘(A) regardless of the sentence imposed,
is—
‘‘(i) an offense relating to a crime of do-
mestic violence (as defined in section
237(a)(2)(E)(i) of this Act or in section
40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act
of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291(a)) or a misdemeanor
crime of domestic violence (as defined in sec-
tion 921(a)(33) of title 18, United States
Code);
‘‘(ii) an offense involving or relating to
sexual abuse or exploitation, burglary, un-
lawful possession or use of a firearm, or drug
distribution or trafficking; or
‘‘(iii) an offense of driving under the influ-
ence if the State law requires, as an element
of the offense, the operation of a motor vehi-
cle and a finding of impairment or a blood
alcohol content of .08 percent or higher; or
‘‘(B) resulted in a sentence of time in cus-
tody of longer than 90 days.
‘‘(8) THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY.—An
alien is a ‘threat to national security’ if the
alien is—
‘‘(A) inadmissible under section 212(a)(3);
or
‘‘(B) deportable under section 237(a)(4).
‘‘(9) THREAT TO PUBLIC SAFETY.—An alien is
a ‘threat to public safety’ if the alien—
‘‘(A) has been charged or convicted of an
offense for which an element was participa-
tion in a criminal street gang (as defined in
section 521(a) of title 18, United States Code);
‘‘(B) has engaged in a continuing criminal
enterprise (as defined in section 408(c) of the
Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and
Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 848(c))); or
‘‘(C) has participated in criminal conduct,
including criminal gang activity, that the
Secretary has determined to pose a threat to
public safety.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary—
‘‘(1) may grant provisional protected pres-
ence to an alien who—
‘‘(A) files an application demonstrating
that he or she meets the eligibility criteria
described in subsection (c); and
‘‘(B) pays the appropriate application fee;
‘‘(2) may not remove an alien described in
paragraph (1) from the United States during
the period in which such provisional pro-
tected presence is in effect unless such de-
ferred action is rescinded pursuant to sub-
section (g); and
‘‘(3) may provide such alien with employ-
ment authorization, upon the request of the
alien, after the alien has paid the applicable
fees.
‘‘(c) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.—An alien is eli-
gible for provisional protected presence and
employment authorization under this sec-
tion if the alien establishes, by clear and
convincing evidence, that the alien—
‘‘(1) was born after June 15, 1981;
‘‘(2) entered the United States before at-
taining 16 years of age;
‘‘(3) continuously resided in the United
States between June 15, 2007, and the date on
which the alien files an application under
this section;
‘‘(4) was physically present in the United
States—
‘‘(A) on June 15, 2012; and
‘‘(B) on the date on which the alien files an
application under this section;
‘‘(5) was unlawfully present in the United
States on June 15, 2012;
‘‘(6) on the date on which the alien files an
application for provisional protected pres-
ence under this section—
‘‘(A) is enrolled in school or in an accred-
ited education program assisting students in
obtaining a regular high school diploma or
its recognized equivalent under State law, or
in passing a general educational develop-
ment exam or other State-authorized exam;
‘‘(B) has graduated or obtained a certifi-
cate of completion from high school;
‘‘(C) has obtained a general educational de-
velopment certificate; or
‘‘(D) is an honorably discharged veteran of
the Armed Forces of the United States;
‘‘(7) has not been convicted of—
‘‘(A) a felony;
‘‘(B) a significant misdemeanor; or
‘‘(C) 3 or more misdemeanors not occurring
on the same date and not arising out of the
same act, omission, or scheme of mis-
conduct;
‘‘(8) does not otherwise pose a threat to na-
tional security or a threat to public safety;
‘‘(9) has not been adjudicated delinquent in
a State or local juvenile court proceeding for
an offense equivalent to—
‘‘(A) an offense relating to murder, man-
slaughter, homicide, rape (whether the vic-
tim was conscious or unconscious), statutory
rape, or any offense of a sexual nature in-
volving a victim who was younger than 18
years of age;
‘‘(B) an offense that—
‘‘(i) has, as an element of the offense, the
use, attempted use, or threatened use of vio-
lent physical force against the person or
property of another; or
‘‘(ii) by its nature, involves a substantial
risk that violent physical force against the
person or property of another may be used in
the course of committing the offense (includ-
ing offenses committed recklessly if they
otherwise qualify); or
‘‘(C) an offense punishable under section
401 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 841);
‘‘(10) has not been convicted for any other
criminal offense, with regard to which the
alien has not satisfied any civil legal judg-
ments awarded to any victims (or family
members of victims) of the crime;
‘‘(11)(A) is not, and has never been, a mem-
ber of a criminal gang; and
‘‘(B) has never participated in the activi-
ties of a criminal gang, knowing or having
reason to know that such activities would
promote, further, aid, or support the illegal
activity of the criminal gang;
‘‘(12) is not inadmissible under section
212(a), except that in determining the alien’s
inadmissibility—
‘‘(A) paragraphs (5), (7), and (9)(B) of such
subsection shall not apply; and
‘‘(B) subparagraphs (A), (D), and (G) of
paragraph (6), and paragraphs (9)(C)(i)(I) and
(10)(B), of such subsection shall not apply,
except for an alien who unlawfully entered
the United States after June 15, 2007;
‘‘(13) is not deportable under section 237(a),
except that in determining the alien’s de-
portability subparagraphs (B) through (D) of
paragraph (1) of such subsection and para-
graph (3)(A) of such subsection shall not
apply;
‘‘(14) has not failed to comply with the re-
quirements of any removal order pursuant to
section 240 or any grant of voluntary depar-
ture pursuant to section 240B;
‘‘(15) has not been ordered removed in
absentia pursuant to section 240(b)(5)(A);
‘‘(16) if at least 18 years of age, has dem-
onstrated that he or she is able to maintain
himself or herself at an annual income that
is not less than 125 percent of the Federal
poverty level while maintaining DACA bene-
fits, unless the alien has demonstrated that
the alien is enrolled in, and is engaged in a
full course of study at, an educational insti-
tution within the United States;
‘‘(17) is not delinquent with respect to any
Federal, State, or local income or property
tax liability;
‘‘(18) has paid to the Treasury of the
United States, in addition to any amounts
owed, an amount equal to the aggregate
value of any disbursements received by such
alien for refunds described in section
1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code;
‘‘(19) has not, at any time, engaged in sex-
ual assault or harassment; and
‘‘(20) is a DACA recipient in good standing
as of the date on which the alien files an ap-
plication for provisional protected presence
under this section.
‘‘(d) DURATION OF PROVISIONAL PROTECTED
PRESENCE AND EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZA-
TION.—
‘‘(1) DACA RECIPIENTS.—A DACA recipient
whose deferred action status had not expired
as of the date of the enactment of the Vul-
nerable Immigrants Protection and Security
Act—
‘‘(A) is deemed to have provisional pro-
tected presence under this section until the
expiration date of the alien’s deferred action
grant, as specified by the Secretary in con-
junction with the approval of such grant;
and
‘‘(B) is eligible to apply for provisional pro-
tected presence under this section.
‘‘(2) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—A grant of provi-
sional protected presence and the employ-
ment authorization under this section—
‘‘(A) shall be effective until the date that
is 3 years after the date on which the appli-
cation for such benefit is approved under this
section; and
‘‘(B) may not be renewed or extended.
‘‘(e) STATUS DURING PERIOD OF PROVISIONAL
PROTECTED PRESENCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An alien granted provi-
sional protected presence under this section
is not considered to be unlawfully present in
the United States during the period begin-
ning on the date on which deferred action is
granted and ending on the date described in
subsection (d)(1).
‘‘(2) STATUS OUTSIDE PERIOD.—The granting
of provisional protected presence under this
section does not excuse previous or subse-
quent periods of unlawful presence.
‘‘(f) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An alien may apply for
provisional protected presence under this
section by electronically submitting a com-
pleted application to the Secretary during
the application period set forth in paragraph
(2), in accordance with the interim final rule
issued by the Secretary under section 102(d)
of the Vulnerable Immigrants Protection
and Security Act.
‘‘(2) APPLICATION PERIOD.—The Secretary
may only accept applications for provisional
protected presence from aliens in the United
States during the 2-year period beginning on
the date on which the interim final rule is
published in the Federal Register pursuant
to such section 102(d).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S469
January 22, 2019
‘‘(3) APPLICATION FORM.—
‘‘(A) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—The applica-
tion form referred to in paragraph (1) shall
collect such information as the Secretary de-
termines to be necessary and appropriate to
determine whether an alien meets the eligi-
bility criteria set forth in subsection (c).
‘‘(B) INTERVIEW.—The Secretary shall con-
duct in-person interviews of high-risk appli-
cants for provisional protected presence
under this section as part of the determina-
tion as to whether the alien meets the eligi-
bility criteria set forth in subsection (b).
‘‘(4) AGE REQUIREMENT.—An alien who has
never been in removal proceedings, or whose
removal proceedings under section 240 were
terminated before making a request for pro-
visional protected presence, shall be at least
15 years of age on the date on which the alien
submits an application under this section.
‘‘(5) APPLICATION FEES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may re-
quire each alien applying for provisional pro-
tected presence and employment authoriza-
tion under this section to pay reasonable
fees that are commensurate with the cost of
processing such application, including—
‘‘(i) capturing and processing biometric in-
formation;
‘‘(ii) conducting national security and
criminal background checks;
‘‘(iii) preventing and investigating fraud;
and
‘‘(iv) administering the collection of such
fee.
‘‘(B) SECURITY FEE.—In addition to the fees
authorized under subparagraph (A), each
alien applying for provisional protected pres-
ence under this section shall pay a security
fee to the Department of Homeland Security
in an amount equal to $500.
‘‘(C) EXEMPTION.—An applicant may be ex-
empted from paying the fees required under
subparagraphs (A) and (B) if the alien—
‘‘(i)(I) is younger than 18 years of age;
‘‘(II) received total income during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the
date on which the alien files an application
under this section that is less than 150 per-
cent of the United States poverty level; and
‘‘(III) is in foster care or otherwise lacking
any parental or other familial support;
‘‘(ii) is younger than 18 years of age and is
homeless;
‘‘(iii)(I) cannot care for himself or herself
because of a serious, chronic disability; and
‘‘(II) received total income during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the
date on which the alien files an application
under this section that is less than 150 per-
cent of the United States poverty level; or
‘‘(iv)(I) as of the date on which the alien
files an application under this section, has
accumulated $10,000 or more in debt in the
immediately preceding 12 months as a result
of unreimbursed medical expenses incurred
by the alien or an immediate family member
of the alien; and
‘‘(II) received total income during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the
date on which the alien files an application
under this section that is less than 150 per-
cent of the United States poverty level.
‘‘(D) DEPOSIT AND USE OF FEES.—
‘‘(i) PROCESSING FEE.—Fees collected pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) shall be deposited
into the Immigration Examinations Fee Ac-
count pursuant to section 286(m).
‘‘(ii) SECURITY FEE.—Fees collected pursu-
ant to subparagraph (B) shall be deposited
into the Immigration Enforcement Account
established under section 280(b) and shall be
available to the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity until expended for the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(A) of such sub-
section.
‘‘(6) ALIENS APPREHENDED BEFORE OR DUR-
ING THE APPLICATION PERIOD.—Upon request,
if an alien who is apprehended during the ap-
plication period appears prima facie eligible
for provisional protected presence under this
section, to the satisfaction of the Secretary,
the Secretary—
‘‘(A) shall provide the alien with a reason-
able opportunity to file an application under
this section during the application period;
and
‘‘(B) may not remove the alien until the
Secretary has denied the application, unless
the Secretary, in the Secretary’s sole and
unreviewable discretion, determines that ex-
peditious removal of the alien is in the na-
tional security, public safety, or foreign pol-
icy interests of the United States.
‘‘(7) SUSPENSION OF REMOVAL DURING APPLI-
CATION PERIOD.—
‘‘(A) ALIENS IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision under
this section, if the Secretary determines
that an alien, during the 6-month period be-
ginning on the date of the enactment of this
section, is in removal, deportation, or exclu-
sion proceedings before the Executive Office
for Immigration Review and is prima facie
eligible for provisional protected presence
under this section, the Secretary shall pro-
vide the alien with the opportunity to file an
application for deferred action unless the
Secretary determines such alien to be a
threat to public safety or national security,
provided that such opportunity shall not
serve as a basis to pause, continue, or other-
wise delay proceedings before the Executive
Office for Immigration Review.
‘‘(B) PERIOD PENDING ADJUDICATION OF AP-
PLICATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), during the period beginning on
the date on which an alien applies for provi-
sional protected presence under subsection
(b)(1) and ending on the date on which the
Secretary makes a determination regarding
such application, an alien with an adminis-
tratively final order of removal may be re-
moved from the United States unless the
Secretary makes a prima facie determina-
tion that such alien is, or has become, eligi-
ble for provisional protected presence under
subsection (b).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary, in the
Secretary’s sole and unreviewable discretion,
may proceed with the removal of an alien de-
scribed in clause (i) if the Secretary deter-
mines that the removal of the alien is in the
national security, public safety, or foreign
policy interest of the United States.
‘‘(8) EVIDENTIARY REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) BURDEN OF PROOF.—Applicants for
provisional protected presence under this
section bear the sole burden of proof of es-
tablishing eligibility for each requirement
under subsection (c), including proving that
a bar based on a conviction does not apply.
‘‘(B) AFFIDAVITS.—An application may not
be granted based solely on affidavits used to
establish any requirement under subsection
(c).
‘‘(C) REQUIRED DOCUMENTS.—Each applica-
tion filed by an alien under this section shall
include—
‘‘(i) to demonstrate the alien’s identity—
‘‘(I) a passport (or national identity docu-
ment) from the alien’s country of origin;
‘‘(II) a certified birth certificate along with
photo identification;
‘‘(III) a State-issued identification card
bearing the alien’s name and photograph;
‘‘(IV) an Armed Forces identification card
issued by the Department of Defense;
‘‘(V) a Coast Guard identification card
issued by the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity;
‘‘(VI) a document issued by the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; or
‘‘(VII) a travel document issued by the De-
partment of State;
‘‘(ii) to demonstrate that the alien satisfies
the requirements under paragraphs (1) and
(2) of subsection (c), a certified copy of the
alien’s birth certificate or certified school
transcript; and
‘‘(iii) to demonstrate that the alien satis-
fies the requirements under subsection
(c)(6)—
‘‘(I) a certified school transcript; or
‘‘(II) an honorable discharge certificate.
‘‘(9) ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATIONS.—Not
later than 120 days after the date of the en-
actment of this section, the Secretary shall
begin accepting electronically filed applica-
tions for provisional protected presence and
employment authorization under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(10) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—There shall be no
judicial review of any claim, including
claims alleging violations of the subchapter
II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code
(commonly known as the ‘Administrative
Procedure Act’) or the Constitution of the
United States, challenging an action by the
Secretary—
‘‘(A) to deny an application from an alien
for provisional protected presence under this
section; or
‘‘(B) to rescind an alien’s provisional pro-
tected presence or employment authoriza-
tion granted under this section.
‘‘(g) RESCISSION OF PROVISIONAL PROTECTED
PRESENCE.—The Secretary may not rescind
an alien’s provisional protected presence or
employment authorization granted under
this section unless the Secretary determines
that the alien—
‘‘(1) has been convicted of—
‘‘(A) a felony;
‘‘(B) a significant misdemeanor; or
‘‘(C) 3 or more misdemeanors not occurring
on the same date and not arising out of the
same act, omission, or scheme of mis-
conduct;
‘‘(2) poses a threat to national security or
a threat to public safety;
‘‘(3) fails to meet any of the eligibility re-
quirements under subsection (c);
‘‘(4) has traveled outside of the United
States without authorization from the Sec-
retary;
‘‘(5) has ceased to maintain a period of con-
tinuous physical presence in the United
States; or
‘‘(6) has participated, benefitted from, or
promulgated a fraud regarding or pertaining
to an application for provisional protected
presence or any other immigration benefit.
‘‘(h) TREATMENT OF BRIEF AND INNOCENT
DEPARTURES AND CERTAIN OTHER AB-
SENCES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
sections (c)(3) and (g)(4), an alien shall not be
considered to have failed to continuously re-
side in the United States or to maintain con-
tinuous physical presence in the United
States due to—
‘‘(A) brief and innocent absences from the
United States during the period beginning on
June 15, 2007, and ending on August 14, 2012;
or
‘‘(B) travel outside of the United States on
or after August 15, 2012, if such travel was
authorized by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CLARIFICATION ON ADMISSION.—The ad-
mission to the United States of an alien who
has been granted provisional protected pres-
ence under this section after a trip described
in paragraph (1) shall not be considered an
admission for the purposes of section 245(a).
‘‘(i) EFFECT OF DEFERRED ACTION UNDER
DEFERRED ACTION FOR CHILDHOOD ARRIVALS
PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) PROVISIONAL PROTECTED PRESENCE.—A
DACA recipient—
‘‘(A) is deemed to have provisional pro-
tected presence under this section through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S470 January 22, 2019
the expiration date of the alien’s deferred ac-
tion status, as specified by the Secretary in
conjunction with the approval of the alien’s
DACA application; and
‘‘(B) is eligible to apply for provisional pro-
tected presence under this section during the
application period set forth in subsection
(f)(2).
‘‘(2) EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZATION.—If a
DACA recipient has been granted employ-
ment authorization by the Secretary in addi-
tion to deferred action, the employment au-
thorization shall continue through the expi-
ration date of the alien’s deferred action sta-
tus, as specified by the Secretary in conjunc-
tion with the approval of the alien’s DACA
application.
‘‘(3) EFFECT OF APPLICATION.—If a DACA re-
cipient files an application for provisional
protected presence under this section not
later than the expiration date of the alien’s
deferred action status, as specified by the
Secretary in conjunction with the approval
of the alien’s DACA application, the alien’s
provisional protected presence and any em-
ployment authorization shall remain in ef-
fect pending the adjudication of such appli-
cation.
‘‘(j) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to affect whether
the Secretary of Homeland Security had the
authority—
‘‘(1) to adopt the Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals Program announced on June
15, 2012; or
‘‘(2) to maintain such program.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
280(b)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1330(b)(2)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(C) Security fees collected under section
244A(f)(2)(B).’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
244 the following:
‘‘Sec. 244A. Provisional protected pres-
ence.’’.
(d) RULEMAKING.—Notwithstanding section
553 of title 5, United States Code, not later
than 6 months after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall issue an interim final rule to
implement section 244A of the Immigration
and Nationality Act, as added by subsection
(a), which shall take effect immediately
upon publication in the Federal Register.
DIVISION K—PROVISIONAL PROTECTED
PRESENCE FOR CERTAIN ALIENS IN
THE UNITED STATES WHO PREVIOUSLY
RECEIVED TEMPORARY PROTECTED
STATUS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Provi-
sional Protected Presence for Certain Aliens
Whose Temporary Protected Status Was Ter-
minated Act’’.
SEC. 102. PROVISIONAL PROTECTED PRESENCE
FOR CERTAIN ALIENS WHO RE-
CEIVED TEMPORARY PROTECTED
STATUS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary of
Homeland Security may grant provisional
protected presence to any alien who—
(1) meets the eligibility requirements set
forth in subsection (b);
(2) submits a completed application before
the end of the period set forth in subsection
(c)(2); and
(3) pays the fees required under subsection
(c)(5).
(b) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An alien is eligible for
provisional protected presence if the alien—
(A) establishes, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the alien meets the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (2); and
(B) is not ineligible under paragraph (3).
(2) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.—An alien
meets the requirements under this paragraph
if the alien—
(A) is a national of El Salvador, Haiti,
Honduras, Nicaragua;
(B) is physically present in the United
States on the date on which the alien sub-
mits an application for provisional protected
presence;
(C) was physically present in the United
States on January 1, 2011;
(D) has maintained continuous physical
presence in the United States from January
1, 2011, until the date on which the alien is
granted provisional protected presence under
this section;
(E) is a person of good moral character;
(F) received temporary protected status
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a); and
(G) remains lawfully in temporary pro-
tected status, or remained lawfully in such
status until the designation of his or her
country of nationality was terminated under
section 244(b)(3)(B) of such Act.
(3) GROUNDS FOR INELIGIBILITY.—An alien is
ineligible for provisional protected presence
under this section if the Secretary of Home-
land Security determines that the alien—
(A) has a Federal, State, or local convic-
tion for—
(i) a felony;
(ii) an aggravated felony (as defined in sec-
tion 101(a)(43) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43));
(iii) a misdemeanor involving or relating
to—
(I) domestic violence (as defined in section
40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act
of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291(a)));
(II) child abuse or neglect (as defined in
such section 40002(a));
(III) assault resulting in bodily injury (as
defined in section 2266 of title 18, United
States Code);
(IV) the violation of a protection order (as
defined in such section 2266); or
(V) driving while intoxicated or driving
under the influence (as such terms are de-
fined in section 164(a)(2) of title 23, United
States Code);
(iv) 2 or more misdemeanor convictions; or
(v) any offense under foreign law, except
for a purely political offense, which, if the
offense had been committed in the United
States, would render the alien inadmissible
under section 212(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) or deport-
able under section 237(a) of such Act (8
U.S.C. 1227(a));
(B) has been adjudicated delinquent in a
State or local juvenile court proceeding for
an offense equivalent to—
(i) an offense relating to murder, man-
slaughter, homicide, rape (whether the vic-
tim was conscious or unconscious), statutory
rape, or any offense of a sexual nature in-
volving a victim who was younger than 18
years of age;
(ii) an offense that has, as an element, the
use, attempted use, or threatened use of vio-
lent physical force against the person or
property of another, or any other offense
that, by its nature, involves a substantial
risk that violent physical force against the
person or property of another may be used in
the course of committing the offense (includ-
ing offenses committed recklessly if they
otherwise qualify); or
(iii) an offense punishable under section 401
of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.
841);
(C) has been convicted for any other crimi-
nal offense, with regard to which the alien
has not satisfied any civil legal judgements
awarded to any victims (or family members
of victims) of the crime;
(D)(i) is, or has been, a member of a crimi-
nal street gang (as defined in section 521(a)
of title 18, United States Code); or
(ii) has participated in the activities of
such a gang, knowing or having reason to
know that such activities will promote, fur-
ther, aid, or support the illegal activity of
the gang.
(E) has been charged with a felony or a
misdemeanor offense, which is still pending;
(F) is inadmissible under section 212(a) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(a)), except that in determining an
alien’s inadmissibility paragraph (5) of such
subsection shall not apply;
(G) was, on the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(i) an alien lawfully admitted for perma-
nent residence;
(ii) an alien admitted as a refugee under
section 207 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157), or granted asylum
under section 208 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1158);
or
(iii) an alien who, according to the records
of the Secretary of Homeland Security or of
the Secretary of State, is lawfully present in
the United States in any nonimmigrant sta-
tus (other than an alien considered to be a
nonimmigrant solely due to the application
of section 244(f)(4) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a(f)(4)) or the
amendment made by section 702 of the Con-
solidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (Pub-
lic Law 110–229)), notwithstanding any unau-
thorized employment or other violation of
nonimmigrant status;
(H) has failed to comply with an order of
supervision issued pursuant to section
240(b)(5)(A) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a(b)(5)(A));
(I) has been ordered removed in absentia
pursuant to section 240(b)(5)(A) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1229a(b)(5)(A));
(J) if at least 18 years of age, has failed to
demonstrate that he or she is able to main-
tain himself or herself at an annual income
that is not less than 125 percent of the Fed-
eral poverty level, while maintaining bene-
fits under a temporary protected status des-
ignation unless the alien has demonstrated
that the alien is enrolled in, and is in regular
full-time attendance at, an educational in-
stitution within the United States;
(K) is delinquent with respect to any Fed-
eral, State, or local income or property tax
liability;
(L) has failed to pay to the Treasury of the
United States, in addition to any amounts
owed, an amount equal to the aggregate
value of any disbursements received by such
alien for refunds described in section
1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code; or
(M) has at any time engaged in sexual as-
sault or harassment (as defined in section
244A(a)(6) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act, as added by section 102 of division
J).
(c) APPLICATION PROCEDURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An alien may apply for
provisional protected presence under this
section by electronically submitting a com-
pleted application form to the Secretary of
Homeland Security during the application
period set forth in paragraph (2), in accord-
ance with the interim final rule issued by
the Secretary pursuant to section 105 of this
division.
(2) APPLICATION PERIOD.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security may only accept applica-
tions for provisional protected presence from
aliens in the United States during the 6-
month period beginning on the date on which
the interim final rule is published in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S471
January 22, 2019
Federal Register pursuant to such section
105.
(3) APPLICATION FORM.—
(A) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—The applica-
tion form referred to in paragraph (1) shall
collect such information as the Secretary of
Homeland Security determines to be nec-
essary and appropriate to determine whether
an alien meets the eligibility requirements
set forth in subsection (b).
(B) INTERVIEW.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security shall conduct an in-person
interview of all high-risk applicants for pro-
visional protected presence under this sec-
tion as part of the determination as to
whether the alien meets the eligibility re-
quirements set forth in subsection (b).
(4) DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS.—An ap-
plication filed by an alien under this section
shall include—
(A) to confirm the alien’s identity—
(i) a passport (or national identity docu-
ment) from the alien’s country of origin;
(ii) a certified birth certificate and photo
identification;
(iii) a State-issued identification card
bearing the alien’s name and photograph;
(iv) an Armed Forces identification card
issued by the Department of Defense; or
(v) a Coast Guard identification card issued
by the Department of Homeland Security;
and
(B) a certified copy of the alien’s birth cer-
tificate or certified school transcript.
(5) FEES.—
(A) STANDARD PROCESSING FEE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Aliens applying for provi-
sional protected presence under this section
shall pay a processing fee to the Department
of Homeland Security in an amount deter-
mined by the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(ii) RECOVERY OF COSTS.—The processing
fee authorized under clause (i) shall be set at
a level that is sufficient to recover the full
costs of processing the application, including
any costs incurred—
(I) to adjudicate the application;
(II) to take and process biometrics;
(III) to perform national security and
criminal checks;
(IV) to prevent and investigate fraud (in-
cluding for the litigation-related costs of the
Department of Homeland Security in pros-
ecuting removal proceedings under section
240 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1229a) related to such fraud);
(V) to interview the applicant or bene-
ficiary; and
(VI) to administer the collection of such
fee.
(iii) DEPOSIT AND USE OF PROCESSING
FEES.—Fees collected under clause (i) shall
be deposited into the Immigration Examina-
tions Fee Account pursuant to section 286(m)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1356(m)).
(B) SECURITY FEE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Aliens applying for provi-
sional protected presence under this section
shall pay a security fee to the Department of
Homeland Security in an amount of $500.
(ii) DEPOSIT AND USE OF SECURITY FEES.—
Fees collected under clause (i) shall be de-
posited into the Immigration Enforcement
Account established under section 280(b) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1330(b)) and shall be available to the
Secretary of Homeland Security until ex-
pended for the purposes described in para-
graph (3)(A) of such subsection.
(iii) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
280(b)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act, as amended by section 102(b) of division
J, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(D) Security fees collected under section
101(c)(5)(B) of the Provisional Protected
Presence for Certain Aliens Whose Tem-
porary Protected Status Was Terminated
Act.’’.
(6) ALIENS APPREHENDED BEFORE OR DURING
THE APPLICATION PERIOD.—If the Secretary of
Homeland Security, upon the request of an
alien who was apprehended during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act and ending on the last day of the ap-
plication period described in paragraph (2),
determines that such alien is prima facie eli-
gible for provisional protected presence, the
Secretary—
(A) shall provide the alien with a reason-
able opportunity to file an application under
this section during such application period;
and
(B) may not remove the alien until the
Secretary has denied the application, unless
the Secretary, in the Secretary’s sole and
unreviewable discretion, determines that ex-
peditious removal of the alien is in the na-
tional security, public safety, or foreign pol-
icy interests of the United States.
(7) SUSPENSION OF REMOVAL DURING APPLI-
CATION PERIOD.—
(A) ALIENS IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of this di-
vision, if the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, during the period beginning on the date
of the enactment of this Act and ending on
the last day of the application period de-
scribed in paragraph (2), upon the request of
an alien who is in removal, deportation, or
exclusion proceedings before the Executive
Office for Immigration Review, determines
that such alien is prima facie eligible for
provisional protected presence under this
section, the Secretary shall provide the alien
with an opportunity to file an application for
provisional protected presence under this
section, provided that such opportunity does
not serve as a basis to pause, continue, or
otherwise delay proceedings before the Exec-
utive Office for Immigration Review.
(B) PERIOD PENDING ADJUDICATION OF APPLI-
CATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), during the period beginning on
the date on which an alien applies for provi-
sional protected presence under subsection
(c) and ending on the date on which the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security makes a deter-
mination regarding such application, the
alien may be removed from the United
States unless the Secretary makes a prima
facie determination that such alien is eligi-
ble for provisional protected presence under
subsection (b).
(ii) OTHER CONSIDERATIONS.—The Secretary
of Homeland Security may proceed with the
removal of an alien who is prima facie eligi-
ble for provisional protected presence under
this section if the Secretary, in the Sec-
retary’s sole and unreviewable discretion, de-
termines that the removal of such alien is in
the national security, public safety, or for-
eign policy interest of the United States.
(8) SECURITY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT CLEAR-
ANCES.—
(A) BIOMETRIC AND BIOGRAPHIC DATA.—The
Secretary of Homeland Security may not
grant provisional protected presence to an
alien under this section unless the alien sub-
mits biometric and biographic data in ac-
cordance with procedures established by the
Secretary.
(B) ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.—The Sec-
retary may provide an alternative procedure
for applicants who cannot provide the bio-
metric data required under subparagraph (A)
due to a debilitating and irreversible phys-
ical impairment.
(C) CLEARANCES.—
(i) DATA COLLECTION.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security shall collect, from each
applicant under this section, biometric, bio-
graphic, and other data that the Secretary
determines to be appropriate—
(I) to conduct national security and law
enforcement checks; and
(II) to determine whether there are any
factors that would render an alien ineligible
for provisional protected protection under
this section.
(ii) PREREQUISITE.—The required clear-
ances described in clause (i)(I) shall be com-
pleted before the alien may be granted provi-
sional protected presence under this section.
(9) DURATION OF STATUS AND EXTENSION.—
The period of provisional protected presence
shall be 3 years unless revoked pursuant to
subsection (e).
(10) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—There shall be no ju-
dicial review of any claim, including claims
alleging violations of subchapter II of chap-
ter 5 of title 5, United States Code (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Administrative Proce-
dure Act’’) or the Constitution of the United
States, challenging the Secretary of Home-
land Security’s denial of an application for
provisional protected presence under this
section, or the revocation of provisional pro-
tected presence for any alien.
(d) TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PROVISIONAL
PROTECTED PRESENCE.—
(1) WORK AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security may grant employment
authorization to any alien granted provi-
sional protected presence who requests such
authorization after the alien pays the appli-
cable fees, unless granting such authoriza-
tion would be contrary to the national inter-
est.
(2) TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The status of an alien
granted provisional protected presence who
is absent from the United States without au-
thorization shall be subject to revocation
under subsection (e).
(B) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security may—
(i) authorize an alien granted provisional
protected presence to travel outside of the
United States; and
(ii) grant reentry to such alien in the same
immigration status or situation that the
alien had before such travel if—
(I) the alien was not absent from the
United States for a period exceeding 15 con-
secutive days, or 90 days in the aggregate
during each 3-year period that the alien is in
provisional protected presence, unless the
alien’s failure to return was due to extenu-
ating circumstances beyond the alien’s con-
trol;
(II) the purpose of the travel is for—
(aa) urgent humanitarian purposes, such as
obtaining medical treatment or attending
the funeral services of a family member;
(bb) structured educational purposes, such
as semester abroad programs and academic
research; or
(cc) employment purposes, such as over-
seas assignments, conferences or training;
and
(III) the alien is otherwise admissible to
the United States, except as provided in sub-
section (b)(3)(F).
(C) CLARIFICATION ON ADMISSION.—The ad-
mission to the United States of an alien
granted provisional protected presence after
a trip described in subparagraph (B) shall not
be considered an admission for the purposes
of section 245(a) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255(a)).
(D) TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED
STATES.—An alien in valid provisional pro-
tective presence who is subject to an out-
standing order of removal and travels out-
side of the United States under authoriza-
tion provided pursuant to subparagraph (B)
shall remain subject to such order when he
or she returns to the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S472 January 22, 2019
(3) FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL PUBLIC BEN-
EFITS.—For purposes of title IV of the Per-
sonal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.), an alien granted provisional protected
presence shall not be considered a qualified
alien under the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(e) REVOCATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security shall revoke the status of an
alien granted provisional protected presence
if the alien—
(A) no longer meets the eligibility require-
ments set forth in subsection (b);
(B) knowingly uses documentation issued
under this section for an unlawful or fraudu-
lent purpose; or
(C) was absent from the United States at
any time without authorization after being
granted provisional protected presence.
(2) ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE.—In determining
whether to revoke an alien’s status under
paragraph (1), the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity may require the alien—
(A) to submit additional evidence; or
(B) to appear for an in-person interview.
(3) INVALIDATION OF DOCUMENTATION.—If an
alien’s provisional protected presence is re-
voked under paragraph (1), any documenta-
tion issued by the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity to such alien under this section shall
automatically be rendered invalid for any
purpose except for departure from the United
States.
SEC. 103. TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS ELI-
GIBILITY.
(a) ELIGIBILITY.—Section 244(a)(1) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1254a(a)(1)) is amended by striking the mat-
ter preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If an alien is lawfully
present in the United States, is a national of
a foreign state designated under subsection
(b) (or in the case of an alien having no na-
tionality, is a person who last habitually re-
sided in such designated state), and meets
the requirements of subsection (c), the At-
torney General, in accordance with this sec-
tion—’’.
(b) ALIENS ELIGIBLE FOR TEMPORARY PRO-
TECTED STATUS.—Section 244(c)(1)(A) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1254a(c)(1)(A)) is amended by striking the
matter preceding clause (i) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(A) NATIONALS OF DESIGNATED FOREIGN
STATES.—Subject to paragraph (3), an alien
who is a national of a state designated under
subsection (b)(1) (or in the case of an alien
having no nationality, is a person who last
habitually resided in such designated state)
and is lawfully present in the United States
meets the requirements under this paragraph
only if—’’.
SEC. 104. PENALTIES AND SIGNATURE REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) PENALTIES FOR FALSE STATEMENTS IN
APPLICATIONS.—Any person who files an ini-
tial or renewal application for provisional
protected presence under section 101 of this
division and knowingly and willfully fal-
sifies, misrepresents, conceals, or covers up a
material fact or makes any false, fictitious,
or fraudulent statements or representations,
or makes or uses any false writing or docu-
ment knowing the same to contain any false,
fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry,
shall be fined in accordance with title 18,
United States Code, imprisoned not more
than 5 years, or both.
(b) SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an applicant under section 101
of this division shall sign his or her applica-
tion with an original signature.
(2) EXCEPTION.—A parent or legal guardian
may sign an application for a child or for an
applicant whose physical or developmental
disability or mental impairment prevents
the applicant from being competent to sign.
Such application shall include evidence of
parentage or legal guardianship.
SEC. 105. RULEMAKING.
Notwithstanding section 553 of title 5,
United States Code, not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
issue interim final regulations to implement
this division, which shall take effect imme-
diately upon publication in the Federal Reg-
ister.
SEC. 106. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Except as specifically provided, nothing in
this division may be construed to create any
substantive or procedural right or benefit
that is legally enforceable by any party
against—
(1) the United States;
(2) any agency or officer of the United
States; or
(3) any other person.
DIVISION L—PROTECTION OF CENTRAL
AMERICAN MINORS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Central
American Minors Protection Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 102. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this division is to establish
an asylum processing program outside of the
United States that—
(1) provides an alternative method of seek-
ing protection in the United States from per-
secution for minor nationals of El Salvador,
of Guatemala, and of Honduras; and
(2) reduces the incentive for such persons
to make the dangerous journey to the United
States southern border to request asylum.
SEC. 103. ADMISSION OF ELIGIBLE CENTRAL
AMERICAN ALIENS AS ASYLEES.
(a) APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 208(a)(2) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1158(a)(2)) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(F) AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN CENTRAL
AMERICAN MINORS TO APPLY FOR ASYLUM.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, including paragraph
(1), and except as provided in clause (ii), a
national of El Salvador, Guatemala, or Hon-
duras who is younger than 18 years of age
and is outside of the United States as of the
date of the enactment of the Central Amer-
ican Minors Protection Act of 2019 shall be
ineligible for asylum unless—
‘‘(I) the alien submits an application for
asylum outside of the United States at a
Designated Application Processing Center in
Central America;
‘‘(II) the United Nations High Commis-
sioner for Refugees or a nongovernmental or-
ganization designated by the Secretary of
Homeland Security has referred the alien to
the Secretary of Homeland Security after de-
termining that the alien is likely to be eligi-
ble for asylum;
‘‘(III) not later than 90 days after the date
on which the alien was referred by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refu-
gees or the designated nongovernmental or-
ganization under subclause (II), the alien
submits an application for asylum at a Des-
ignated Application Processing Center, in
accordance with the requirements and proce-
dures established by the Secretary of Home-
land Security pursuant to this section;
‘‘(IV) the alien has not been convicted of a
Federal, State, or local criminal offense (ex-
cluding a State or local offense for which an
essential element was the immigration sta-
tus of the alien) punishable by imprisonment
for a term exceeding 1 year or a similar for-
eign offense;
‘‘(V) the alien has not been removed from
the United States;
‘‘(VI) the alien is not subject to an out-
standing final order of removal;
‘‘(VII) the Secretary of Homeland Security
has determined that the alien is not a public
safety or national security risk;
‘‘(VIII) the alien has not had an applica-
tion for asylum denied;
‘‘(IX) the alien is younger than 18 years of
age on the date on which the asylum applica-
tion is filed;
‘‘(X) the alien has a qualified parent or
guardian in the United States capable of tak-
ing custody and care of the minor upon ar-
rival in the United States; and
‘‘(XI) the alien is otherwise eligible to
apply for and receive asylum under sub-
sections (a)(2) and (b)(2).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding clause
(i), paragraph (1) shall apply to a national of
El Salvador, of Guatemala, or of Honduras if
the alien is present in the United States be-
fore the date of the enactment of the Central
American Minors Protection Act of 2019.
‘‘(iii) TIME LIMIT.—The time limit under
subparagraph (B) shall not apply to nation-
als of El Salvador, of Guatemala, or of Hon-
duras who are described in clause (i).’’.
(2) SUNSET.—The amendment made by
paragraph (1) shall remain in effect until the
date that is 3 years after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
(b) ELIGIBILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 208(b) of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1158(b)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (C); and
(ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN CENTRAL AMER-
ICAN MINORS FOR ASYLUM.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security may grant asylum to a minor
national of El Salvador, of Guatemala, or of
Honduras who submits an application under
subsection (a)(2)(F)(i)(I) if—
‘‘(I) the alien is otherwise eligible for asy-
lum under subparagraph (A), except that the
alien does not need to be outside of his or her
country of nationality;
‘‘(II) a grant of asylum to the alien would
not cause the number of asylum grants in a
fiscal year to exceed the number set forth in
clause (iii)(II); and
‘‘(III) the Secretary of Homeland Security
determines that—
‘‘(aa) the alien warrants a grant of asylum;
and
‘‘(bb) such grant is consistent with the na-
tional interest.
‘‘(ii) DESIGNATED APPLICATION PROCESSING
CENTERS.—
‘‘(I) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 240
days after the date of the enactment of the
Central American Minors Protection Act of
2019, the Secretary of State shall establish
Designated Application Processing Centers,
with the consent of the country in which
such centers will be located, if necessary.
‘‘(II) LOCATIONS.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall ensure that not fewer than 1 Des-
ignated Application Processing Center is es-
tablished in each of the following countries:
‘‘(AA) Belize.
‘‘(BB) Costa Rica.
‘‘(CC) El Salvador.
‘‘(DD) Guatemala.
‘‘(EE) Honduras.
‘‘(FF) Mexico.
‘‘(GG) Nicaragua.
‘‘(HH) Panama.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S473
January 22, 2019
‘‘(bb) SELECTION.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, shall select the location of
each Designated Application Processing Cen-
ter described in item (aa).
‘‘(III) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF
STATE.—The Secretary of State shall ensure
that any minor national of El Salvador, Gua-
temala, or Honduras is permitted—
‘‘(aa) to apply to a Designated Application
Processing Center for asylum under this sub-
paragraph; and
‘‘(bb) if the alien applying for asylum is an
unaccompanied alien child (as defined in sec-
tion 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002), to have legal counsel present at any
interview at no expense to the United States
Government.
‘‘(IV) ADJUDICATION BY ASYLUM OR REFUGEE
OFFICERS.—Applications submitted to a Des-
ignated Application Processing Center under
this subparagraph shall be adjudicated by
asylum or refugee officers.
‘‘(iii) MAXIMUM NUMBER OF REFERRALS AND
GRANTS OF ASYLUM.—
‘‘(I) REFERRALS.—The number of aliens
whom the Secretary of Homeland Security
may accept for processing under this sub-
paragraph may not exceed 50,000 in any fiscal
year.
‘‘(II) ASYLUM GRANTS.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security may not grant asylum to
more than 15,000 aliens under this subpara-
graph in any fiscal year.
‘‘(iv) NO JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law (statu-
tory or nonstatutory), including section 2241
of title 28, United States Code, or any other
habeas corpus provision, and sections 1361
and 1651 of such title, no court or immigra-
tion judge shall have jurisdiction to review a
determination of the Secretary of Homeland
Security under clause (i).’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking subpara-
graph (C).
(2) SUNSET.—The amendment made by
paragraph (1)(A) shall remain in effect until
the date that is 3 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 104. APPLICATION FEES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security shall—
(1) collect a fee from each alien submitting
an application under section 208(a)(2)(F)(i)(I)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1158(a)(2)(F)(i)(I)) for the purpose of
receiving, docketing, processing, and adjudi-
cating such application; and
(2) shall deposit all fees collected under
paragraph (1) into the Immigration Exami-
nations Fee Account under section 286(m) of
such Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)).
(b) AMOUNT.—The fee required under sub-
section (a) shall be based upon—
(1) a consideration of the amount nec-
essary to deter frivolous applications; and
(2) the cost of processing the application.
(c) SUNSET PROVISION.—This section shall
remain in effect until the date that is 3 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 105. TERMINATION OF ASYLUM STATUS PUR-
SUANT TO RETURN TO HOME COUN-
TRY.
Section 208(c) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘the Secretary of Homeland
Security or’’ before ‘‘the Attorney General’’;
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘or’’
at the end;
(C) in subparagraph (E), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) the alien, since receiving asylum sta-
tus, has returned to the country of the
alien’s nationality (or, in the case of an alien
having no nationality, returns to any coun-
try in which such alien last habitually re-
sided), unless—
‘‘(i) the Secretary of Homeland Security or
the Attorney General, in the Secretary’s or
Attorney General’s sole and unreviewable
discretion and pursuant to such rules and
regulations as each may adopt, determines
that the alien had a compelling reason for
the return; and
‘‘(ii) the alien seeks a waiver described in
clause (i) before departing from the United
States or upon returning to the United
States.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘section
212(a) and 237(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘sections
212(a) and 237(a)’’.
SEC. 106. FRIVOLOUS ASYLUM APPLICATIONS.
Section 208(d) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘the Secretary of Homeland
Security or’’ before ‘‘the Attorney General’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
of the consequences, under paragraph (6), of
knowingly filing a frivolous application for
asylum; and’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) ensure that a written warning appears
on the asylum application that—
‘‘(i) advises the alien of the consequences
of filing a frivolous application; and
‘‘(ii) serves as notice to the alien of the
consequences of filing a frivolous applica-
tion.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (6)—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (4)(A)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘paragraph (4)(C)’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘If the’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary of
Homeland Security or the’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) EXAMPLES.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A) and paragraph (4), an application
for asylum is frivolous if—
‘‘(i) the application—
‘‘(I) contains a deliberately fabricated ma-
terial element;
‘‘(II) is supported by a fabricated or false
document or other piece of evidence;
‘‘(III) is wholly unfounded in credibility
even if not deliberately fabricated;
‘‘(IV) was filed, in whole or in part, for a
purpose other than seeking protection from
persecution, including being filed to obtain
work authorization or being filed to be
placed in removal proceedings in order to
seek another type of relief from removal;
‘‘(V) was filed solely to delay removal from
the United States rather than due to a gen-
uine fear of persecution; or
‘‘(VI) is clearly foreclosed by applicable
law, including failure to comply with the
time limit under section 208(a)(2)(B); or
‘‘(ii) the application is withdrawn unless
the alien—
‘‘(I) wholly disclaims the application and
withdraws it with prejudice;
‘‘(II) is eligible for, and agrees to accept,
an agreement to voluntary depart the United
States within 30 days at his or her own ex-
pense, in accordance with section 240B(a);
‘‘(III) withdraws any and all other applica-
tions for relief or protection with prejudice;
and
‘‘(IV) waives his or her right to appeal and
any rights to file, for any reason, a motion
to reopen or reconsider.
‘‘(C) WORK AUTHORIZATION.—The fact that
an alien may receive work authorization fol-
lowing the filing of an asylum application,
by itself, is insufficient to show that the ap-
plication was filed for that purpose.
‘‘(D) EFFECT OF WARNING.—An alien who
has filed an application containing the warn-
ing required under section 208(d)(4) need not
be given any further opportunity to account
for any issues with his or her claim prior to
the entry of a frivolous finding.
‘‘(E) ELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER RELIEF.—A
finding under this paragraph that an alien
filed a frivolous asylum application does not
preclude the alien from seeking—
‘‘(i) withholding of removal under section
241(b)(3); or
‘‘(ii) withholding of removal or deferral of
removal pursuant to Article 3 of the Conven-
tion Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhu-
man, or Degrading Treatment or Punish-
ment, done at New York, December 10, 1984.
‘‘(F) PERMITTED DISCLOSURES.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, infor-
mation contained in an asylum application
and information supporting that application
may be disclosed—
‘‘(i) as part of an investigation to evaluate
the allegations contained in the application;
‘‘(ii) as part of the process to adjudicate
the application;
‘‘(iii) as part of any criminal investigation
or proceeding; and
‘‘(iv) for any purpose as part of any pro-
ceeding arising under this Act.’’.
SEC. 107. RESTRICTIONS ON ASYLEE AND REF-
UGEE ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.
(a) TERMINATION OF REFUGEE STATUS.—Sec-
tion 207(c)(4) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1157(c)(4), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘the Attorney General pur-
suant to such regulations as the Attorney
General may prescribe if the Attorney Gen-
eral’’ and inserting ‘‘the Attorney General or
the Secretary of Homeland Security, pursu-
ant to such regulations as the Attorney Gen-
eral or the Secretary may prescribe, if the
Attorney General or the Secretary’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, or has been convicted of
a felony at any time after being admitted as
a refugee’’ before the period at the end.
(b) TERMINATION OF ASYLUM.—Section
208(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158(c)(2)) is amended in-
serting ‘‘or has been convicted of a felony at
any time after receiving asylum status’’ be-
fore the semicolon at the end.
(c) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—Section 209(b)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1159(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), by strik-
ing the comma at the end of each paragraph
and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘, and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(3) in paragraph (5), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) has not been convicted of a felony.’’.
(d) INADMISSIBILITY.—Section 212(a)(10) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(10)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(F) FORMER ASYLEES.—Any alien who was
granted asylum under section 208 and whose
asylum status has been terminated pursuant
to subsection (c)(2) of such section is inad-
missible.’’.
(e) DEPORTABILITY.—Section 237(a)(1) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1227(a)(1)) is amended by inserting after sub-
paragraph (E) the following:
‘‘(F) TERMINATION OF REFUGEE STATUS OR
ASYLUM STATUS.—An alien is deportable if
the alien—
‘‘(i) was granted refugee status and such
status was terminated pursuant to section
207(c)(4); or
‘‘(ii) was granted asylum status and such
status was terminated pursuant to section
208(c)(2).’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00157 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S474 January 22, 2019
SEC. 108. ENSURING SAFE AND PROMPT RETURN
OF MINORS TO NONCONTIGUOUS
COUNTRIES.
Section 235 of the Public Law 110–457 (8
U.S.C. 1232) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘SPECIAL RULES FOR CHILDREN FROM CONTIG-
UOUS COUNTRIES’’ and inserting ‘‘RULES FOR
REUNITING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.—
’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (A), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘who is a na-
tional or habitual resident of a country that
is contiguous with the United States shall be
treated in accordance with subparagraph
(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘shall be treated in ac-
cordance with subparagraph (B) or sub-
section (b), as applicable’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘CONTIGUOUS COUNTRY AGREEMENTS’’ and
inserting ‘‘AGREEMENTS WITH FOREIGN COUN-
TRIES’’; and
(II) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘countries contiguous to the United
States’’ and inserting ‘‘Canada, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and any other
country the Secretary determines to be ap-
propriate.’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following
‘‘(D) SPECIAL RULE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security may repatriate an unaccom-
panied alien child who does not wish to with-
draw his or her application for admission to
his or her country of nationality or last ha-
bitual residence after the child has been
interviewed by an immigration officer with
specialized training in interviewing child
trafficking victims, who shall be in plain
clothes and may not carry a weapon during
such interview.
‘‘(ii) REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—If the immi-
gration officer determines that it is more
probable than not that the unaccompanied
alien child will be trafficked on return to his
or her country of nationality or last habitual
residence or more probable than not that the
unaccompanied alien child could establish
eligibility for asylum under section 208 of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1158), the unaccompanied alien child
shall be placed in removal proceedings under
section 240 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a).
‘‘(iii) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Any repatri-
ation of an unaccompanied alien child under
this subparagraph shall not constitute a re-
moval.’’;
(B) by striking paragraph (3);
(C) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5)
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(D) by amending paragraph (3), as redesig-
nated, to read as follows:
‘‘(3) SCREENING.—Before returning a child
to the child’s country of nationality or of
last habitual residence, the child shall be
interviewed in accordance with paragraph
(2)(D).’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(4), by striking the first
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘The
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall ensure that custodians receive legal
orientation presentations provided through a
legal orientation program administered by
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices or other appropriate agency.’’.
SEC. 109. APPLYING BARS TO CREDIBLE FEAR
INTERVIEWS.
Section 235(b)(1)(B)(v) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1)(B)(v))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘An alien cannot establish eligi-
bility for asylum under section 208 if he or
she is subject to a limitation or condition
under subsection (b)(2) of such section or a
regulation promulgated under such sub-
section.’’.
SEC. 110. INCREASE OF LIMITATIONS PERIOD
FOR ASYLUM FRAUD.
Section 3291 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by inserting ‘‘and section 1546,’’
after ‘‘to 1544, inclusive,’’.
SEC. 111. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
Section 208 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(D), by inserting ‘‘the
Secretary of Homeland Security or’’ before
‘‘the Attorney General’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security or’’ before ‘‘the
Attorney General’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘the Secretary of Home-
land Security or’’ before ‘‘the Attorney Gen-
eral’’ each place such term appears (other
than in subparagraph (A)(v)); and
(B) in subparagraph (A)(v), by striking
‘‘the Attorney General determines, in the
Attorney General’s discretion,’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Secretary of Homeland Security or
the Attorney General determines, in the sole
discretion of the Secretary or the Attorney
General, as applicable,’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Attorney
General’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security or’’ before ‘‘the
Attorney General’’; and
(4) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘Sec-
retary of Homeland Security or the’’ before
‘‘Attorney General’’ each place it appears;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Attorney
General’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Home-
land Security’’; and
(C) in paragraph (5)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Attor-
ney General’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary of
Homeland Security’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘Sec-
retary of Homeland Security or the’’ before
‘‘Attorney General’’.
SEC. 112. RULEMAKING.
Notwithstanding the requirements under
section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code,
not later than 240 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Homeland Security and the Attorney Gen-
eral shall publish, in the Federal Register,
interim final rules to implement this divi-
sion.
SA 6. Mr. SCHUMER proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 268, mak-
ing supplemental appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the first word and insert
the following:
øThat¿ the following sums are hereby appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, and out of appli-
cable corporate or other revenues, receipts,
and funds, for the several departments, agen-
cies, corporations, and other organizational
units of Government for fiscal year 2019, and
for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $1,105,442,000 (increased by
$1,900,000,000), which shall remain available
until December 31, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses related to losses of crops (including
milk and harvested adulterated wine grapes),
trees, bushes, and vines, as a consequence of
Hurricanes Michael or Florence, other hurri-
canes, typhoons, volcanic activity, or
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018
under such terms and conditions as deter-
mined by the Secretary: Provided, That the
Secretary may provide assistance for such
losses in the form of block grants to eligible
states and territories and such assistance
may include compensation to producers, as
determined by the Secretary, for past or fu-
ture crop insurance premiums, forest res-
toration, and poultry and livestock losses:
Provided further, That of the amounts pro-
vided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00158 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.008 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S475
January 22, 2019
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of Public Law
115–72, there is hereby appropriated
$600,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (in-
creased by $5,000,000) for the Secretary of Ag-
riculture to provide a grant to the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico for disaster nutrition
assistance in response to Presidentially de-
clared major disasters and emergencies: Pro-
vided, That the funds made available to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under this
section shall remain available for obligation
by the Commonwealth until September 30,
2020, and shall be in addition to funds other-
wise made available: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $10,200,000 (increased by
$15,000,000) shall be available for the Sec-
retary to provide a grant to the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for
disaster nutrition assistance in response to
the Presidentially declared major disasters
and emergencies: Provided, That funds made
available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018 under
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), $600,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, up to 2 percent of funds may be
transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’
account for administration and oversight ac-
tivities: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for carrying out investigations
and audits related to the funding provided
under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERIES DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fisheries
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00159 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S476 January 22, 2019
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018
wildfires, volcanic eruptions, and earth-
quakes, $15,000,000: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be expended for
any purpose prohibited or limited by, or con-
trary to any of the provisions of, sections
501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law
105–119, and all funds appropriated in this
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall
be subject to the same terms and conditions
set forth in such sections, except that all ref-
erences in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and
1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to 2018
and 2019, respectively, and except that sec-
tions 501 and 503 of Public Law 104–134 (ref-
erenced by Public Law 105–119) shall not
apply to the amount made available under
this heading: Provided further, That, for the
purposes of this Act, the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be considered an agency of the
United States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, in States and insular
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm
Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, including new studies selected
to be initiated using funds provided under
this heading, beginning not later than 60
days after the enactment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $715,000,000 (in-
creased by $25,000,000), to remain available
until expended, to construct flood and storm
damage reduction, including shore protec-
tion, projects which are currently authorized
or which are authorized after the date of en-
actment of this Act, and flood and storm
damage reduction, including shore protec-
tion, projects which have signed Chief’s Re-
ports as of the date of enactment of this Act
or which are studied using funds provided
under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’ if the
Secretary determines such projects to be
technically feasible, economically justified,
and environmentally acceptable, in States
and insular areas that were impacted by
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Trop-
ical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects re-
ceiving funds provided in Public Law 115–123
shall not be eligible for funding provided
under this heading: Provided further, That for
projects receiving funding under this head-
ing, the provisions of Section 902 of the
Water Resources Act of 1986 shall not apply
to these funds: Provided further, That the
completion of ongoing construction projects
receiving funds provided under this heading
shall be at full Federal expense with respect
to such funds: Provided further, That using
funds provided under this heading, the non-
Federal cash contribution for projects not el-
igible as ongoing construction projects shall
be financed in accordance with the provi-
sions of section 103(k) of Public Law 99–662
over a period of 30 years from the date of
completion of the project or separable ele-
ment: Provided further, That of this amount
$25,000,000 shall be used for Corps of Engi-
neers ecosystem restoration projects: Pro-
vided further, That up to $25,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading
shall be used for continuing authorities
projects to reduce the risk of flooding and
storm damage: Provided further, That any
projects using funds appropriated under this
heading shall be initiated only after non-
Federal interests have entered into binding
agreements with the Secretary requiring,
where applicable, the non-Federal interests
to pay 100 percent of the operation, mainte-
nance, repair, replacement, and rehabilita-
tion costs of the project and to hold and save
the United States free from damages due to
the construction or operation and mainte-
nance of the project, except for damages due
to the fault or negligence of the United
States or its contractors: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the enactment of
this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the enactment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
ENERGY PROGRAMS
ELECTRICITY DELIVERY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Electricity
Delivery’’, $15,500,000, to remain available
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00160 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S477
January 22, 2019
until expended, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Har-
vey, Irma, and Maria, and Super Typhoon
Yutu, including technical assistance related
to electric grids: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
Electricity Delivery shall provide a monthly
report to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, beginning not later than 60 days
after the enactment of this Act.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 501. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal
share of assistance provided for DR–4336–PR,
DR–4339–PR, DR–4340–USVI and DR–4335–
USVI under sections 403, 406 and 407 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b and
5173) shall be 100 percent of the eligible costs
under such sections.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The Federal share pro-
vided by subsection (a) shall apply to dis-
aster assistance applied for before, on, or
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 502. The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency may pro-
vide assistance, pursuant to section 428 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), for critical services as defined in sec-
tion 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act for the
duration of the recovery for incidents DR–
4404, DR–4396, and DR–4398 to—
(1) replace or restore the function of a fa-
cility or system to industry standards with-
out regard to the pre-disaster condition of
the facility or system; and
(2) replace or restore components of the fa-
cility or system not damaged by the disaster
where necessary to fully effectuate the re-
placement or restoration of disaster-dam-
aged components to restore the function of
the facility or system to industry standards.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the
2018 volcano disaster along with cost esti-
mates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00161 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S478 January 22, 2019
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent amount of its cap-
italization grants to provide additional sub-
sidization to eligible recipients in the form
of forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That the Administrator
shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for grants for drinking water
facilities and waste water treatment plants
impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided further,
That the funds appropriated herein shall be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to
reduce flood or fire damage risk and vulner-
ability or to enhance resiliency to rapid hy-
drologic change or natural disaster at treat-
ment works as defined by section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any
eligible facilities under section 1452 of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other eligi-
ble tasks at such treatment works or facili-
ties necessary to further such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency may re-
tain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated
herein for management and oversight: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
In addition, for an additional amount for
‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’,
$500,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $261,000,000 shall be for cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, and of
which $239,000,000 shall be for capitalization
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act: Provided, That notwith-
standing section 604(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act and section
1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
funds appropriated herein shall be provided
to States or Territories in EPA Regions 2, 4
and 6 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater and drinking water
treatment works and facilities impacted by
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria: Pro-
vided further, That, for Region 2, such funds
allocated from funds appropriated herein
shall not be subject to the matching or cost
share requirements of sections 602(b)(2),
602(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act nor the matching requirements of
section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act: Provided further, That, for Region 2, not-
withstanding the requirements of section
603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, each State and Territory shall
use the full amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That, for Regions 4 and 6, notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds allocated, each State shall
use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That the Administrator shall retain
$74,600,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for grants to any state or territory that has
not established a water pollution control re-
volving fund pursuant to title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or section
1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act for
drinking water facilities and waste water
treatment plants impacted by Hurricanes
Irma and Maria: Provided further, That the
funds appropriated herein shall only be used
for eligible projects whose purpose is to re-
duce flood damage risk and vulnerability or
to enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic
change or a natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible
tasks at such treatment works or facilities
necessary to further such purposes: Provided
further, That, for Region 2, notwithstanding
section 603(d)(2) of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act and section 1452(f)(2) of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, funds allocated
from funds appropriated herein may be used
to make loans or to buy, refinance or re-
structure the debt obligations of eligible re-
cipients only where such debt was incurred
on or after September 20, 2017: Provided fur-
ther, That the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may retain up to
$1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein for
management and oversight: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $2,000,000 (increased by
$10,000,000), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00162 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S479
January 22, 2019
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, or the California
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, to
remain available through September 30, 2020:
Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such con-
sequences: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2019,
for grants, contracts and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and the California
wildfires occurring in 2018 in those areas for
which a major disaster or emergency has
been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and
5191): Provided, That obligations incurred for
the purposes provided herein prior to the
date of enactment of this Act may be
charged to funds appropriated under this
heading: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Social Serv-
ices Block Grant’’, $250,000,000, which shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for necessary expenses directly related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and the California wildfires in 2018 in
those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section
401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That notwith-
standing section 2002 of the Social Security
Act, the distribution of such amount shall be
limited to States directly affected by these
events: Provided further, That the time limits
in section 2002(c) of the Social Security Act
shall not apply to funds appropriated in this
paragraph that are used for renovation, re-
pair or construction: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph are in
addition to the entitlement grants author-
ized by section 2002(a)(1) of the Social Secu-
rity Act and shall not be available for such
entitlement grants: Provided further, That in
addition to other uses permitted by title XX
of the Social Security Act, funds appro-
priated in this paragraph may be used for
health services (including mental health
services), and for costs of renovating, repair-
ing, and construction of health care facilities
(including mental health facilities), child
care centers, and other social services facili-
ties: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be transferred to ‘‘Of-
fice of the Secretary—Office of Inspector
General’’ for oversight of activities respond-
ing to such hurricanes, typhoons, and
wildfires: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph shall not be avail-
able for costs that are reimbursed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency,
under a contract for insurance, or by self-in-
surance: Provided further, That obligations
incurred for the purposes provided herein
prior to the date of enactment of this Act
may be charged to funds appropriated under
this heading: Provided further, That up to
$3,000,000 may be used to supplement
amounts available for the necessary expenses
of administering subtitle A of title XX of the
Social Security Act: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for Head Start programs, including making
payments under the Head Start Act, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and the California wildfires in 2018 in
those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section
401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That none of
the funds appropriated in this paragraph
shall be included in the calculation of the
‘‘base grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as
such term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph are not subject to
the allocation requirements of section 640(a)
of the Head Start Act: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall
not be available for costs that are reim-
bursed by the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, under a contract for insur-
ance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That up to $2,000,000 shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Education
Recovery’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, the California wildfires in 2018, the No-
vember 2018 Anchorage Earthquake or the
volcanic eruption and earthquakes in Hawaii
in 2018 in those areas for which a major dis-
aster or emergency has been declared under
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to
under this heading as a ‘‘covered disaster or
emergency’’), $165,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2019: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That such as-
sistance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in
division B of title VIII of Public Law 115–123
(as amended by Public Law 115–141), as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that ap-
plied to those programs, except that ref-
erences to dates and school years in Public
Law 115–123 shall be deemed to be the cor-
responding dates and school years for the
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary of Education may
determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obli-
gation: Provided further, $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and
inserting ‘‘and (F)’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (F);
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the
following:
‘‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the
period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2019, the amount of the in-
crease otherwise provided under subpara-
graph (A) for the Northern Mariana Islands
shall be further increased by $20,000,000 (in-
creased by $16,000,000).’’; and
(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this section)—
(A) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’and in-
serting ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘,
(D), and (E)’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Virgin Islands’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘, the
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’;
(D) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1,
2019, and ending September 30, 2019, with re-
spect to payments to Guam and American
Samoa from the additional funds provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
increase the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00163 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S480 January 22, 2019
by the Congress as being for an emergency
requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 702. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 703. The second proviso under the
heading ‘‘Hurricane Education Recovery’’
under the heading ‘‘Department of Edu-
cation’’ under title VIII of subdivision 1 of
division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123; 132 Stat. 95) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(K) assistance provided to an eligible en-
tity under this heading, including assistance
provided to an eligible entity before the date
of enactment of the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act, 2019, may be used by the eligi-
ble entity for a purpose described in section
406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster and
Relief Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5172), not-
withstanding section 102(e)(3) of title IV of
division B of Public Law 109–148 (119 Stat.
2794), if the eligible entity will receive funds
for that purpose under such section 406; and
‘‘(L) any duplicative Federal assistance
provided under this heading to an eligible en-
tity may be retained by the entity and used
for other activities to restart school oper-
ations in accordance with this paragraph;’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (11); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) amounts available under paragraph
(4) that exceed the amount required to meet
the need for such funds as determined by the
Secretary as of December 31, 2018, shall be
available to carry out paragraph (3); and’’:
Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant
to this section that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $11,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations
and a form 1391 for each specific project: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00164 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S481
January 22, 2019
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,160,000,000 (increased
by $50,000,000), to remain available until ex-
pended, for necessary expenses for activities
authorized under title I of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster relief,
long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitaliza-
tion, and mitigation in the most impacted
and distressed areas resulting from a major
disaster that occurred in 2018 (except as oth-
erwise provided under this heading) pursuant
to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.): Provided, That funds shall be awarded
directly to the State, unit of general local
government, or Indian tribe (as such term is
defined in section 102 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974) at the
discretion of the Secretary: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading $100,000,000 (increased by
$50,000,000) shall be allocated to meet unmet
infrastructure needs for grantees that re-
ceived allocations for disasters that occurred
in 2017 (excluding disasters specified in sec-
tion 501(a) of title V of this Act) under this
heading of division B of Public Law 115–56
and title XI of Public Law 115–123: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided in the
previous proviso, the Secretary’s unmet in-
frastructure needs determinations shall not
take into account mitigation-specific alloca-
tions: Provided further, That any funds made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254 that re-
main available, after the funds under such
headings have been allocated for necessary
expenses for activities authorized under such
headings, shall be allocated to grantees, for
mitigation activities in the most impacted
and distressed areas resulting from a major
disaster that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That such allocations shall be made in
the same proportion that the amount of
funds each grantee received under this Act
and the same heading in division I of Public
Law 115–254 bears to the amount of all funds
provided to all grantees that received alloca-
tions for disasters that occurred in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, the Sec-
retary shall allocate to all such grantees an
aggregate amount not less than 33 percent of
the sum of such amounts of funds within 120
days after the enactment of this Act based
on the best available data, and shall allocate
no less than 100 percent of such funds by no
later than 180 days after the enactment of
this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall not prohibit the use of funds made
available under this heading and the same
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Fed-
eral share as authorized by section 105(a)(9)
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, grantees may establish
grant programs to assist small businesses for
working capital purposes to aid in recovery:
Provided further, That as a condition of mak-
ing any grant, the Secretary shall certify in
advance that such grantee has in place pro-
ficient financial controls and procurement
processes and has established adequate pro-
cedures to prevent any duplication of bene-
fits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure time-
ly expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with these funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds: Provided further, That with
respect to any such duplication of benefits,
the Secretary shall act in accordance with
section 1210 of Public Law 115–254 (132 Stat.
3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall require grantees to
maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits indi-
viduals and entities awaiting assistance and
the general public to see how all grant funds
are used, including copies of all relevant pro-
curement documents, grantee administrative
contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That prior to the ob-
ligation of funds a grantee shall submit a
plan to the Secretary for approval detailing
the proposed use of all funds, including cri-
teria for eligibility and how the use of these
funds will address long-term recovery and
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components: Provided further, That funds al-
located under this heading shall not be con-
sidered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further,
That a State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 per-
cent of its allocation for administrative
costs: Provided further, That the first proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under
this heading in the Supplemental Appropria-
tions for Disaster Relief Requirements Act,
2018 (division I of Public Law 115–254) is
amended by striking ‘‘State or subdivision
thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00165 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S482 January 22, 2019
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1102. None of the funds made available
by this Act for the Department of Homeland
Security may be used for the construction or
expansion of immigration detention facili-
ties.
SEC. 1103. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act for
the Army Corps of Engineers or Department
of Homeland Security may be obligated or
expended to plan, develop, or construct a
new physical barrier along the Southwest
border.
TITLE XII—FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 1201. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended by striking the date speci-
fied in section 105(3) and inserting ‘‘February
8, 2019’’.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
f
RECESS UNTIL 11 A.M. TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 11 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 3:40 p.m.,
recessed until Wednesday, January 23,
2019, at 11 a.m.
N O T I C E
Incomplete record of Senate proceedings. Today’s Senate proceedings will be continued in the next issue of the
Record.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00166 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8633 E:\CR\FM\A22JA6.007 S22JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E69
January 22, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE HAYTI HIGH
SCHOOL FOOTBALL TEAM
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Hayti R–II High
School football team for winning the Class 1
State Championship on December 1st, 2018,
the first football state championship in the
school’s history. Even more remarkable, it will
be the first ever football state title brought
home to Missouri’s Bootheel.
Dominique Robinson, Class 1 Coach of the
Year, led the Hayti Indians to a 15-win,
undefeated season, outscoring opponents by
an unprecedented 838–80 on the year. Coach
Robinson could not have asked for a more tal-
ent laden team, comprised of eight All-State
players, including Tylor Wooden, Louis Wright,
Jason Weatherspoon, Nakwon Harris,
Chrivontae Moore, Kevin Luster, Eddie Wood-
en, and Damorri Reed, in addition to the Of-
fensive and Defensive Players of the Year,
Ivory Winters and Adreian Stevenson.
The Indians swept through the postseason
on their way to a 44–0 win over Lincoln High
School in the championship game, capping
the historic run. Their success is a testament
to the hard work and preparation the coaches
and players put in during the preseason and
throughout the year.
On behalf of the Eighth Congressional Dis-
trict of Missouri, it is my great privilege to con-
gratulate the Hayti High School football team
on their historic achievement. We look forward
to their continued successes. Go Indians.
f
HONORING DAWN PEASE BRYANT
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Dawn Pease Bryant for her efforts as
a homeschool educator and a military spouse.
This recognition is well-deserved and most
timely in light of her son’s recent high school
graduation and on the eve of her husband’s
promotion to Colonel in the United States
Army.
The education of our children is one of the
most important undertakings we have as par-
ents, and it is an impressive accomplishment
when this responsibility is balanced with the
homeschool setting. Dawn Pease Bryant has
excelled as a homeschool educator, having
educated her son from first grade through high
school. The milestones and experiences dur-
ing these formative years include completion
of over 75 junior-ranger programs at our Na-
tional Parks, participation in state envirothon
competitions and oratory programs, and a
special attention to domestic and international
history and culture. Beyond the education of
her own child, Dawn routinely led group class-
es and events for homeschool groups in her
community, mentored and supported other
homeschool parents, and served as President
of the regional homeschool cooperative.
These efforts have all been accomplished in
tandem with Dawn Pease Bryant’s dedication
and service as a military spouse. The sac-
rifices endured by servicemember spouses
often go unnoticed and unappreciated. Bal-
ancing an education in the home is particularly
challenging when a spouse is required to work
late, weekends, or deploy around the globe.
Dawn’s unwavering support of her husband
undoubtedly enabled his promotion to the rank
of Colonel.
Madam Speaker, the recent achievements
of Dawn Pease Bryant’s son and husband are
in no small part due to her many sacrifices
and devotion. I commend this remarkable
mother, educator, wife, citizen, and friend on
her efforts, accomplishments, and service. I
ask that my colleagues in the United States
House of Representatives join me in honoring
her today.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 46TH
ANNIVERSARY OF ROE V. WADE
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
address the first and most fundamental right
guaranteed to every individual—the right to
life.
This week marks the 46th anniversary since
the tragic ruling in Roe v. Wade. In that time,
more than 60 million lives have been lost to
abortion.
That’s 60 million babies who were never
given the chance to fulfill their potential as a
future doctor, farmer, artist, or Member of
Congress.
Last year the House made significant
progress to protect life through the Pain-Capa-
ble Unborn Child Protection Act and by urging
the Trump administration to update Title X
guidelines so that tax dollars for family plan-
ning services don’t go to abortion providers.
I was proud to help lead that effort in the
House, but I know we can’t stop there.
That’s why I want to thank the hundreds of
thousands of pro-life Americans from Kansas
and throughout our country who are arriving in
Washington this week to stand for life.
We know that research has proven what
pro-life Kansans have already known—that is
life is precious and it begins at conception.
As a proud father of three and a Kansan, I
stand in support of fellow Kansans and Ameri-
cans who are a voice for the voiceless.
I want to thank Congressman SMITH for or-
ganizing this Special Order.
COMMEMORATING 34TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF REV. DR. MARTIN LU-
THER KING, JR. HOLIDAY
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, on
Monday, January 21, the nation observed for
the 34th time the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. Holiday.
Each year, this day is set aside for Ameri-
cans to celebrate the life and legacy of a man
who brought hope and healing to America.
The Martin Luther King Holiday reminds us
that nothing is impossible when we are guided
by the better angels of our nature.
Dr. King’s inspiring words filled a great void
in our nation, and answered our collective
longing to become a country that truly lived by
its noblest principles.
Yet, Dr. King knew that it was not enough
just to talk the talk; he knew that he had to
walk the walk for his words to be credible.
And so we commemorate on this holiday
the man of action, who put his life on the line
for freedom and justice every day.
We honor the courage of a man who en-
dured harassment, threats, beatings, and even
bombings.
We commemorate the man who went to jail
29 times to achieve freedom for others, and
who knew he would pay the ultimate price for
his leadership, but kept on marching and pro-
testing and organizing anyway.
Dr. King once said that we all have to de-
cide whether we ‘‘will walk in the light of cre-
ative altruism or the darkness of destructive
selfishness.
‘‘Life’s most persistent and nagging ques-
tion,’’ he said, is ‘‘what are you doing for oth-
ers?’’
And when Dr. King talked about the end of
his mortal life in one of his last sermons, on
February 4, 1968 in the pulpit of Ebenezer
Baptist Church, even then he lifted up the
value of service as the hallmark of a full life:
‘‘I’d like somebody to mention on that day
Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to give his life
serving others,’’ he said. ‘‘I want you to say on
that day, that I did try in my life . . . to love
and serve humanity.’’
We should also remember that the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was, above all, a per-
son who was always willing to speak truth to
power.
There is perhaps no better example of Dr.
King’s moral integrity and consistency than his
criticism of the Vietnam War being waged by
the Johnson Administration, an administration
that was otherwise a friend and champion of
civil and human rights.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was born in Atlanta,
Georgia on January 15, 1929.
Martin’s youth was spent in our country’s
Deep South, then run by Jim Crow and the Ku
Klux Klan.
For young African-Americans, it was an en-
vironment even more dangerous than the one
they face today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K22JA8.001 E22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E70 January 22, 2019
A young Martin managed to find a dream,
one that he pieced together from his read-
ings—in the Bible, and literature, and just
about any other book he could get his hands
on.
And not only did those books help him edu-
cate himself, but they also allowed him to
work through the destructive and traumatic ex-
periences of blatant discrimination, and the
discriminatory abuse inflicted on himself, his
family, and his people.
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. that we
celebrate here today could have turned out to
be just another African-American who would
have had to learn to be happy with what he
had, and what he was allowed.
But he learned to use his imagination and
his dreams to see right through those ‘‘White
Only’’ signs—to see the reality that all men,
and women, regardless of their place of origin,
their gender, or their creed, are created equal.
Through his studies, Dr. King learned that
training his mind and broadening his intellect
effectively shielded him from the demoralizing
effects of segregation and discrimination.
Dr. King was a dreamer and his dreams
were a tool through which he was able to lift
his mind beyond the reality of his segregated
society, and into a realm where it was pos-
sible that white and black, red and brown, and
all others live and work alongside each other
and prosper.
But the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was
not an idle daydreamer.
He shared his visions through speeches that
motivated others to join in his nonviolent effort
to lift themselves from poverty and isolation by
creating a new America where equal justice
and institutions were facts of life.
In the Declaration of Independence in 1776,
Thomas Jefferson wrote, ‘‘We hold these
truths to be self evident, that all Men are Cre-
ated Equal.’’
At that time and for centuries to come, Afri-
can-Americans were historically, culturally, and
legally excluded from inclusion in that declara-
tion.
Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King’s ‘‘I Have
a Dream’’ Speech, delivered 56 years ago this
year, on August 28, 1963, was a clarion call
to each citizen of this great nation that we still
hear today.
His request was simply and eloquently con-
veyed—he asked America to allow of its citi-
zens to live out the words written in its Dec-
laration of Independence and to have a place
in this nation’s Bill of Rights.
The 1960s were a time of great crisis and
conflict.
The dreams of the people of this country
were filled with troubling images that arose
like lava from the nightmares of violence and
the crises they had to face, both domestically
and internationally.
It was the decade of the Cuban Missile Cri-
sis, the Vietnam War, and the assassinations
of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Mal-
colm X, Presidential Candidate Robert Ken-
nedy, and the man we honor here today.
Dr. Martin Luther King’s dream helped us
turn the corner on civil rights.
It started when Dr. King led the Montgomery
Bus Boycott, with Rosa Parks and others,
which lasted for 381 days, and ended when
the United States Supreme Court outlawed ra-
cial segregation on all public transportation.
But the dream did not die there.
It continued with a peaceful march for suf-
frage that started in Selma, Alabama on
March 7, 1965—a march that ended with vio-
lence at the hands of law enforcement officers
as the marchers crossed the Edmund Pettus
Bridge.
Dr. King used several nonviolent tactics to
protest against Jim Crow Laws in the South
and he organized and led demonstrations for
desegregation, labor and voting rights.
On April 4, 1967, at Riverside Church in
New York City, he spoke out against the Viet-
nam War, when he saw the devastation that
his nation was causing abroad and the effect
that it had on the American men and women
sent overseas.
When the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King was stolen from us, he was a very young
39 years old.
People remember that Dr. King died in
Memphis, but few can remember why he was
there.
On that fateful day in 1968 Dr. King came
to Memphis to support a strike by the city’s
sanitation workers.
The garbage men there had recently formed
a chapter of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees to demand
better wages and working conditions.
But the city refused to recognize their union,
and when the 1,300 employees walked off
their jobs the police broke up the rally with
mace and Billy clubs.
It was then that union leaders invited Dr.
King to Memphis.
Despite the danger he might face entering
such a volatile situation, it was an invitation he
could not refuse.
Not because he longed for danger, but be-
cause the labor movement was intertwined
with the civil rights movement for which he
had given up so many years of his life.
The death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., will never overshadow his life.
That is his legacy as a dreamer and a man
of action.
It is a legacy of hope, tempered with peace.
It is a legacy not quite yet fulfilled.
I hope that Dr. King’s vision of equality
under the law is never lost to us, who in the
present, toil in times of unevenness in our
equality.
For without that vision—without that
dream—we can never continue to improve on
the human condition.
For those who have already forgotten, or
whose vision is already clouded with the fog of
complacency, I would like to recite the immor-
tal words of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.:
I have a dream that one day on the red
hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and
the sons of former slave owners will be able
to sit down together at the table of brother-
hood.
I have a dream that one day even the State
of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the
heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of
oppression, will be transformed into an oasis
of freedom and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children
will one day live in a nation where they will
not be judged by the color of their skin, but
for the content of their character.
I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day down in Ala-
bama with its vicious racists, with its Gov-
ernor having his lips dripping with words of
interposition and nullification—one day
right there in Alabama, little black boys and
black girls will be able to join hands with lit-
tle white boys and white girls as sisters and
brothers.
I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day every valley
shall be exalted, every hill and mountain
shall be made low, the rough place will be
made plain and the crooked places will be
made straight, and the glory of the Lord
shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it to-
gether.
Dr. King’s dream did not stop at racial
equality, his ultimate dream was one of human
equality and dignity.
There is no doubt that Dr. King wished and
worked for freedom and justice for every indi-
vidual in America.
He was in the midst of planning the 1968
Poor People’s Campaign for Jobs and Justice
when he was struck down by the dark deed of
an assassin on April 4, 1968.
It is for us, the living, to continue that fight
today and forever, in the great spirit that in-
spired the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
f
HONORING STEPHEN OWEN
HEDSTROM
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Honor-
able Stephen Owen Hedstrom on his retire-
ment from the bench after forty-two years of
exceptional and diligent public service to the
people of Lake County, California.
Judge Hedstrom was born in Oak Park, Illi-
nois and graduated from Salesian High School
in Richmond, California in 1966. He earned a
Bachelor of Science degree in 1970 from the
University of San Fransisco and a Juris Doc-
torate from the Hastings College of Law at the
University of California in 1974. Judge
Hedstrom began his career in 1975 as a pri-
vate practice attorney and contract public de-
fender in Lakeport. In 1976 he became the
Deputy District Attorney in Lake County, a po-
sition he held until 1986. From 1987 to 1999
Judge Hedstrom served as the District Attor-
ney of Lake County. In 2001, Judge Hedstrom
was appointed Lake County Superior Court
Judge, a position in which he has served
since.
Throughout his career, Judge Hedstrom has
remained humble and focused on public serv-
ice and the greater good. Additionally, he has
spent his free time giving back to our commu-
nity. He coached Little League and youth soc-
cer teams, was active in his local Lions Club
chapter and was a member of his local Peace
Officers Association while he served as a Dis-
trict Attorney.
Madam Speaker, Judge Hedstrom is a
model public servant who has dedicated his
career to public service. It is therefore fitting
and proper that we honor Stephen Hedstrom
here today.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of the FY 2019 Financial
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22JA8.002 E22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E71
January 22, 2019
Services Appropriations Bill, which provides
more than $23 billion to partially re-open the
government.
This important bill would reopen the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS)—ensuring hardworking
families receive their tax returns on time. It
would also help to restart the taxpayer assist-
ance centers, which serve approximately 2.5
million citizens monthly.
This shutdown is affecting real lives, Madam
Speaker; real people.
According to the Washington Post, IRS fur-
loughed employee Krystle Kirkpatrick, said she
and her family of four can scrape along on her
partner’s machinist salary for a while, but
she’s already thinking about signing up to be
a plasma donor to earn extra cash—that’s
only an extra $200.
Let me reiterate. A federal employee is con-
sidering becoming a plasma donor—because
her paycheck, from her federal government
job, won’t be coming in the mail.
This is no way to run a country.
Madam Speaker, the Trump shutdown is
hurting real families and it’s hurting our econ-
omy. Let’s pass this bill.
Let’s get the government back open and get
workers their paychecks.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the Fi-
nancial Services Bill.
f
IN MEMORY OF THOMAS H.
DOOLEY
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the life of Thomas H.
Dooley, a prominent attorney and business-
man from Vernon, CT, who passed away on
January 6, 2019.
Born in 1934 to Lawrence and Lauretta
Dooley, Tom was raised in Middletown, New
York and graduated from Clarkson University
in 1956 with a Bachelor of Science degree in
business administration. He subsequently
joined the U.S. Army, serving his country for
two years before beginning his career with the
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company
as an assistant claims examiner. Soon there-
after Tom enrolled at UCONN School of Law
where he was editor of the UCONN Law Re-
view and a Starr Fellow. Tom graduated in
1964 and became a partner at Flaherty &
Dooley Law Firm. Tom eventually returned to
Connecticut General Life Insurance, this time
as an Assistant Counsel in their legal depart-
ment. Eventually he moved into a manage-
ment position becoming Second Vice Presi-
dent of Group Insurance Operations. Then, in
1985 he became Executive Vice President of
CIGNA and President of Connecticut General.
Tom did not slow down after his retirement
in 1992. He became Executive-in-Residence
at the University of Hartford and taught at
Manchester Community College and
Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute Graduate
Center. He also chaired Connecticut’s Citi-
zen’s Ethics Advisory Board from 2010 to
2011 and was trustee emeritus at his alma
mater, Clarkson.
Tom was not just a businessman and attor-
ney; he was also a public servant. He was the
attorney for the town of Vernon for several
years as well as a town council member and
deputy mayor in our hometown of Vernon. He
even served in the Connecticut General As-
sembly from 1970 to 1974.
Madam Speaker, on a personal note, I had
the privilege of knowing Tom Dooley for many
years since I practiced law with his former
partner Leo Flaherty for over twenty years.
Leo and Tom remained good friends after
Tom left their partnership and because he was
such a talented lawyer, all of us in the firm fre-
quently looked to him for advice on thorny
legal issues, for which he was happy to pro-
vide well-thought out and sound advice. Tom’s
two terms in the Connecticut General Assem-
bly from Vernon’s 56th Assembly District pre-
ceded my own election to that seat which I
held from 1986 to 1994. I can attest to the fact
that his outstanding legacy and reputation at
the state Capitol still resonated years after his
departure. His record of ethics and profes-
sionalism in the practice of law and public
service in the political arena is an example
that all should emulate.
Lastly his devotion to his beloved wife Antoi-
nette and all their children and grandchildren
who are leading successful lives is another life
achievement that will ensure his memory will
live on. Tom Dooley made eastern Con-
necticut a better place, and we are all better
off because of him. I ask my colleagues to
please join me in honoring Tom’s life and
memory and expressing our deepest sym-
pathies for his family and friends.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER WELCH
OF VERMONT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. WELCH. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to vote on Roll Call 38. I would have voted
‘‘Nay’’ on Roll Call 38 had I been there.
f
THE TANF EXTENSION ACT OF 2019
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of H.R. 430, the TANF Exten-
sion Act of 2019. This bill would provide a
much-needed short-term TANF extension
through June 30, 2019.
TANF, unfortunately, expired in December
and many states, including my home state of
California, are unable to pick up the lack of
federal funding for this program. So, this bill is
not only necessary, it’s incredibly timely.
Madam Speaker, more than 3.4 million
struggling working moms and dads are on
TANF, providing critical income, childcare, and
employment support.
But, sadly TANF does not reach enough
families, especially families of color. For every
100 families living in poverty, only 23 receive
direct financial assistance from TANF—down
from 68 families in 1996.
Let me be clear—funding for the TANF pro-
gram has not kept pace with the growing need
in our country. As a result, 4 out of 5 children
living in poverty are not being reached.
And for those families with 50 percent below
the poverty line their situation is even worse.
In 2015, TANF only lifted 349,000 children out
of deep poverty.
Because of this, many families are forced to
choose between paying their rent, putting food
on the table, or paying their medical bills.
This is outrageous. This program literally
does not fulfill its mission—which is to reduce
child poverty.
Madam Speaker, I was in the California leg-
islature on the conference committee that ne-
gotiated California’s TANF program—and let
me tell you—I voted against my own con-
ference committee’s report because as a
former welfare recipient myself, I didn’t want to
see more welfare recipients being penalized
with onerous work requirements with no real
incentive or job supports to actually help
women—and men—obtain good-paying jobs.
And while I am pleased to support this vital
short-term TANF extension, I hope that we
can get to work with changing TANF to ensure
that it is reaching more poor families and help-
ing them meet their basic needs.
With that, I urge my colleagues to vote yes
on this bill and let’s ensure that we strengthen
and improve TANF moving forward.
f
IN HONOR OF THE NEW HAMP-
SHIRE SNOWMOBILE ASSOCIA-
TION (NHSA)
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, today I rise in recognition of the New
Hampshire Snowmobile Association (NHSA)
and their charitable fund raising event that
helps provide summer camp experiences to
underprivileged, disabled and challenged chil-
dren.
The New Hampshire Snowmobile Associa-
tion is made up of 105 independently incor-
porated Snowmobile Clubs across the Granite
State. They work together as a unified voice to
speak for support of snowmobiling and to pro-
mote it as a safe family recreation. Member
clubs voluntarily maintain and groom 7,000
miles of recreational trails that interconnect
with Maine, Vermont, and Canada. These
trails are a major economic driver, generating
more than $580 million dollars of economic
activity annually.
Every year for the past 47 years, they have
partnered with Easter Seals and hold the an-
nual New Hampshire Snowmobile Association
Easter Seals Ride, where clubs from across
the state gather to compete and challenge
each other to raise money for Easter Seals
Camp Sno-Mo. Camp Sno-Mo is for children
with disabilities and unique healthcare needs.
Camp Sno-Mo is in Gilmington Iron Works,
New Hampshire.
Since the inception of the Easter Seals
Ride-in in the 1970’s, the group has raised
more than $3.2 million. Those proceeds en-
sure more than 100 children attend camp
each year.
It is a privilege and an honor to recognize
the New Hampshire Snowmobile Association,
its member clubs, and their membership for
their commitment and volunteerism for nearly
five decades. Countless children who may
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22JA8.005 E22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E72 January 22, 2019
never have been able to afford a summer
camp experience will now have the oppor-
tunity.
f
HONORING THE NAPA VALLEY
VINTNERS
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the Napa
Valley Vintners on the 75th anniversary of its
founding.
The Napa Valley Vintners is an important
association in our community. Since its forma-
tion in 1944, the institution has supported an
exchange of ideas and worked to elevate the
status of Napa Valley wines. Napa Valley Vint-
ners has grown from seven founders to an or-
ganization that represents over 550 wineries in
Napa County. The Napa Valley Vintners has
provided more than $185 million in support to
Napa County non-profit organizations since
1981 through its annual fundraiser, Auction
Napa Valley. The members of the organization
have worked tirelessly for more than seven
decades to protect the integrity of the Napa
Valley name and have advocated for those
who earn the right to carry its prestigious
name on their labels.
It is the Napa Valley Vintners mission to
promote, protect, and enhance Napa Valley,
which they have honored. The Napa Valley
Vintners has been recognized on local, state,
federal and international stages as a premiere
trade organization and a commanding leader
in the global wine industry. The Napa Valley
Vintners is committed to environmental stew-
ardship in our community. It is a founding
member of the Napa Green program and re-
ceived the Governor’s Environmental and Eco-
nomic Leadership Award (GEELA) in 2018.
With this highest statewide honor of environ-
mental leadership, the Napa Valley Vintners
have proven their commitment to the cultiva-
tion of our community.
Madam Speaker, the Napa Valley Vintners
is an essential institution in Napa Valley and
in the wine community. It is therefore fitting
and proper that we honor the association on
the 75th anniversary of its founding.
f
TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of the FY 2019 Trans-
portation and Housing Appropriations Bill,
which provides more than $71 billion to par-
tially re-open the government.
Families living in housing supported by the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment (HUD) deserve to know they will have a
roof over their heads.
This bill will ensure that struggling families
are not evicted from their homes because of
the Trump Administration’s incompetence and
cruelty.
There was a report this week that thou-
sands of families could be evicted because
HUD officials forgot about Section 8 contracts
that expired last month.
Let me reiterate: families could become
homeless—in the depths of winter—because
these Trump officials couldn’t keep track of
this program.
Madam Speaker, this is just downright unac-
ceptable. And it’s hurting people across the
country. In my home district, renovations on
an affordable housing project has been put on
hold because of this shutdown.
There is an affordable housing crisis in this
country, Madam Speaker. A delay in projects
like this will mean fewer people have a place
to rest their heads at night.
These families deserve better.
Madam Speaker, the Trump shutdown is
hurting real families and it’s hurting our econ-
omy.
Let’s pass this bill to reopen the govern-
ment, and make sure families can stay in their
homes.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes.
f
IN HONOR OF RANDY WILKES
BEING NAMED ALABAMA SUPER-
INTENDENT OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
Randy Wilkes who was named Alabama Su-
perintendent of the Year.
Randy serves as Phenix City Schools Su-
perintendent and was given the honor at the
School Superintendents of Alabama 2018 Fall
Conference at the Marriott Shoals Hotel and
Spa in Florence, Alabama. He was chosen out
of over 130 superintendents.
The Phenix City Schools have made much
progress under his leadership including a ris-
ing graduation rate and the highest math ACT
score in the system’s history.
Randy is a graduate of Goshen and Troy
University and the son of Gerald and Juanita
Wilkes.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Randy Wilkes on this deserved
honor.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF LAMAR STATE COL-
LEGE ORANGE
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Lamar State College Orange on the
occasion of their 50th anniversary.
Lamar State College Orange is a unique
campus on the Sabine River in Orange,
Texas, composed of re-purposed buildings
that revitalized the downtown area creating a
beautiful campus. LSCO opened in the fall of
1969 as an extension center of Lamar Univer-
sity and first held classes for 362 students in
the vacant Tilley Elementary School located
on the site of the former naval base in Or-
ange. That structure burned in 1971, prompt-
ing community leaders to raise funds for the
purchase of a new facility. The fund raising
campaign produced $250,000 that allowed for
the purchase of a building located on Front
Street in downtown Orange. That same year
the Texas legislature approved the operation
of a two-year educational center in Orange
and appropriated $125,000 to support the op-
eration of the center then known as Lamar
University at Orange.
Dr. Joe Ben Welch played a key role in the
early growth and development of the college.
He served as director, dean, provost and
president during his nineteen-year tenure at
the institution. The initial class offerings fo-
cused on academic courses that would trans-
fer and count toward a baccalaureate degree.
Welch, however, saw the need to offer career-
oriented programs that would prepare students
for immediate entry into the workforce, and he
began to add programs such as vocational
nursing and welding. This mix of academic
and career-oriented programs defines the
campus mission to this day. Dr. Welch retired
in 1989 after nineteen years of service to
Lamar.
In 1994, the Board selected Dr. J. Michael
Shahan as President of LSCO. Under
Shahan’s leadership, the campus has grown
to over 2,000 students and made significant
improvements to the campus infrastructure.
The Ron E. Lewis Library was completed in
2001, the first new construction in the col-
lege’s history. A new nursing school and
classroom building was added in 2013. Dr.
Shahan saw Lamar through hurricanes and
floods and still managed to continue the
growth that led to an enrollment of more than
2,600 students today. After twenty-four years,
Dr. Shahan retired in 2018 with the honor of
having the new Cypress Event Center being
renamed the J. Michael and Bridget Shahan
Event Center.
In 2018, Dr. Thomas Johnson was selected
as President, and under his leadership Lamar
State College Orange will no doubt continue
its legacy of two-year academic programs, nu-
merous technical programs and customized
training programs to meet the needs of local
business and industry playing a key role in
southeast Texas’ growth and development.
Madam Speaker, it is my distinct honor to
recognize Lamar State College Orange on this
important anniversary. May God continue to
bless and grow LSCO and the community and
students it serves.
f
HONORING MARY PARZIALE OF
DRACUT, MASSACHUSETTS ON
HER 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mary Parziale of Dracut, Massachu-
setts who is turning 100 years old on Friday,
January 25, 2019. Mary dedicated her life to
raising a large family and working hard to help
benefit those in her community. Mary has lived
her life admirably, and her legacy of hard work
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22JA8.009 E22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E73
January 22, 2019
and public service continues to inspire many
in our community.
Mary Parziale was born in Trapani, Sicily
and arrived in the United States at the young
age of 18 months. Mary lived in the North End
of Boston, Massachusetts where she grew up
to have 8 children of her own. At the age of
44, Mary received her driver’s license and
worked in a shoe factory until she was re-
cruited by a police officer to work in the Labor
Division at the Massachusetts State House.
After 20 years of commitment to this new line
of work, Mary retired.
Mary’s lifetime commitment to our commu-
nity and her work at the Massachusetts State
House Labor Division has been invaluable to
Massachusetts.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that
I recognize Ms. Mary Parziale today.
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR.
RICHARD ALLEN SHIRLEY
HON. DOUG LaMALFA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the storied life of one of my constitu-
ents, decorated Vietnam War veteran Richard
Allen Shirley.
On September 14, 1947 in the small town of
Toppenish, Washington, our nation was
blessed with Richard Shirley. A true patriot,
Richard knew he wanted to serve our country,
so he joined the United States Military. From
1964 to 1970, Richard proudly served six
years in the United States Navy, four of those
years aboard the USS Yorktown during the
Vietnam War. While in the Navy, he earned
several medals for his service, including the
National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam
Service Medal, and the Republic of Vietnam
Campaign Medal.
After being honorably discharged from the
Navy, Richard moved to Biggs, California. For
the next 46 years he worked at the Butte
County Rice Growers Association in Richvale,
California, where he met his wife Terry. During
that time is when I had the pleasure of getting
to know Richard. He was always friendly,
helpful, and never without a smile. Richard
was always beaming about his lovely family
and the sense of fulfillment they constantly
brought to his life.
Seen as a father figure to many, Richard
was the kind of man that would give someone
the shirt off his back if they needed it. He
often opened his home to strangers, and
many of those strangers soon felt they were
part of his extended family.
On Sunday, January 20, 2019, we lost Rich-
ard Shirley to a difficult battle with cancer. The
sadness that many in Butte County feel right
now is immense, but we must take comfort in
knowing that his legacy will not be forgotten.
May the Lord continue to guide his family and
may they be consoled by the knowledge that
they too will see Richard again someday.
Please join me and the constituents of Cali-
fornia’s First Congressional District in remem-
bering and honoring the distinguished life of
Richard Allen Shirley. He will be greatly
missed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22JA8.014 E22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D65
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S317–S482
Measures Introduced: Two bills were introduced,
as follows: S. 197–198. Page S327
Measures Passed:
TANF Extension Act: Senate passed H.R. 430, to
extend the program of block grants to States for
temporary assistance for needy families and related
programs through June 30, 2019. Page S319
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Mid-
dle East Act: Senate resumed consideration of the
motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1, to make
improvements to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt
the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people.
Pages S318–19, S319–25, S326
Supplemental Appropriations Act—Agree-
ment: Senate began consideration of H.R. 268, mak-
ing supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, after agreeing to the
motion to proceed to consideration of the bill, and
taking action on the following amendments proposed
thereto: Page S325
Pending:
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 5, of a
perfecting nature. Page S325
Schumer Amendment No. 6, of a perfecting na-
ture. Page S325
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to consid-
eration of the bill. Page S325
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, that it be
in order to file cloture on McConnell (for Shelby)
Amendment No. 5 (listed above), and Schumer
Amendment No. 6 (listed above), during Thursday,
January 24, 2019 session of the Senate, and that clo-
ture motions filed on these amendments during
Thursday’s session of the Senate, be treated as if they
were filed during Tuesday, January 22, 2019 session
of the Senate, and ripen at 2:30 p.m., on Thursday,
January 24, 2019, in the order filed. Pages S325–26
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S317, S326
Executive Communications: Pages S326–27
Petitions and Memorials: Page S327
Additional Cosponsors: Page S327
Amendments Submitted: Pages S327–S482
Adjournment: Senate convened at 1 p.m. and re-
cessed at 3:40 p.m., until 11 a.m. on Wednesday,
January 23, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S326.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 19 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 693–711; and 7 resolutions, H.J. Res.
31–32; and H. Res. 62–66 were introduced.
Pages H996–97
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H998–99
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 61, providing for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 648) making appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22JA9.REC D22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D66 January 22, 2019
providing for consideration of the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 31) making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes; providing
for consideration of motions to suspend the rules;
and waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII
with respect to consideration of certain resolutions
reported from the Committee on Rules (H. Rept.
116–4). Page H983
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Beyer to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H963
Recess: The House recessed at 12:05 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H964
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H964, H983
Recess: The House recessed at 2:03 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Pages H964
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
National Future Farmers of America Organiza-
tion’s Federal Charter Amendments Act: H.R. 439,
to amend the charter of the Future Farmers of Amer-
ica; Pages H964–67
Clean Up the Code Act of 2019: H.R. 498, to
eliminate unused sections of the United States Code;
Pages H967–70
Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019:
H.R. 31, amended, to require certain additional ac-
tions in connection with the national emergency
with respect to Syria; Pages H970–74
Directing the Secretary of State to develop a
strategy to regain observer status for Taiwan in
the World Health Organization: H.R. 353, to di-
rect the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to
regain observer status for Taiwan in the World
Health Organization; Pages H974–76
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Support
Act: H.R. 676, to reiterate the support of the Con-
gress of the United States for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
357 yeas to 22 nays, Roll No. 44; and
Pages H976–79, H981–82
Hack Your State Department Act: H.R. 328, to
require the Secretary of State to design and establish
a Vulnerability Disclosure Process (VDP) to improve
Department of State cybersecurity and a bug bounty
program to identify and report vulnerabilities of
internet-facing information technology of the De-
partment of State, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 377
yeas to 3 nays, Roll No. 45. Pages H979–81, H982–83
Member Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Tom Marino, wherein he resigned as
Representative for the Twelfth Congressional District
of Pennsylvania, effective at 12:01 a.m. on January
23, 2019. Page H981
Recess: The House recessed at 5:33 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H981
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H964.
Quorum Calls Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H982 and H982–83. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:09 p.m.
Committee Meetings
CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019; MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2019, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 648, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2019’’; and H.J. Res. 31, making further continuing
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Se-
curity for fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes.
The Committee granted, by record vote of 6–2, a
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 648, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019’’; and H.J.
Res. 31, making further continuing appropriations
for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes. Section 1 of the
rule provides for consideration of H.R. 648 under a
closed rule. The rule provides one hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations or their designees. The rule waives all
points of order against consideration of the bill. The
rule provides that the bill shall be considered as
read. The rule waives all points of order against pro-
visions in the bill. The rule provides that clause 2(e)
of rule XXI shall not apply during consideration of
the bill. The rule provides one motion to recommit.
Section 2 of the rule provides for consideration of
H.J. Res. 31 under a closed rule. The rule provides
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their designees. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the joint resolution. The rule provides that the
joint resolution shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:29 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\D22JA9.REC D22JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D67
January 22, 2019
joint resolution. The rule provides one motion to re-
commit. Section 3 of the rule provides that it shall
be in order at any time through the legislative day
of February 1, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain
motions that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV, and that the Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority Leader
or his designee on the designation of any matter for
consideration pursuant to this section. Finally, sec-
tion 4 of the rule waives the requirement of clause
6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the same
day it is presented to the House with respect to any
resolution reported through the legislative day of
January 30, 2019, relating to a measure making or
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Lowey, and Representatives Bishop of
Georgia, Fortenberry, Serrano, Aderholt, Quigley,
Graves of Georgia, McCollum, Joyce of Ohio, Rogers
of Kentucky, Price of North Carolina, Diaz-Balart,
Roybal-Allard, and Fleischmann.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 23, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:30 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\D22JA9.REC D22JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D68 January 22, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11 a.m., Wednesday, January 23
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate may consider any
cleared legislative and executive business.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, January 23
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R. 648—
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Subject to a
Rule). Consideration of measures under suspension of the
Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E72
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E71
Estes, Ron, Kans., E69
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E69
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E71
LaMalfa, Doug, Calif., E73
Lee, Barbara, Calif., E70, E71, E72
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E69
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E72
Smith, Jason, Mo., E69
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E70, E72
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E72
Welch, Peter, Vt., E71
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D22JA9.REC D22JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
